ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97208	. First item: - Proposal for a Law on the COMMASSATION of Agricultural Land, First Reading, P.Z. No 251 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. So we have before the Honorable Minister of Agriculture Marija Vukkovic presents the law I see that we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a break. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97209	Thank you, Your Honor. So, according to which times in this session, article of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament No. 174 has been injured, defining the content of the bill. This article says that, in addition to the proposal for a law, the applicant will submit a statement on the assessment of the effects of the rules. We didn't get a statement indicating a broken procedure of lawmaking, but also of undemocracy as well as of avoiding reasonable and meaningful regulation. So, in other words, the importance of parliamentaryism is lost. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97210	Thank you very much, this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about the procedure of our work in the assembly, and the minister will explain, I expect to answer what you asked legitimately as a question. Now we're going to move on to the break requests. First of all, it's my colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97211	I'm looking for a break from the Honorable President of the Assembly on behalf of the MOST Club on the Law of Compassion. First of all, I would like to stress that it is important for the land to be co-commissioned, i.e. to round up the land. It is a prerequisite for quality use of agricultural land. It is a prerequisite to create competitive agricultural products, because if you carry out a commercial or rounding of land, you will get more products, you will become more competitive on the market. What's today? Today in ARCOD the average area of the plot is 0.87 hectares. Very little. It is even more tragic in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the average plot area is 0.23 hectares. What did the state do about it? In 2009, the country adopted a land circulation programme between 2009 and 2021 zero commissions. The state had 300 million kunas from EU funds from 2014 to 2020 of zero kunas used. The State passed the Cooperation Act in 2015 of zero commercials implemented. Today we come after 5 years of this government to talk again about the Law of Compassion, the government in the last 5 years zero commissions. I'd really like to ask you to seriously engage in a comcommissioning resolution program. Why? Under this law of yours that is in the first reading today, and this bill is inconclusive. Why? You need more than 380 million kunas you predicted. The second thing, you can't switch to local self-government to carry out co-operations where in municipalities there are a couple of employees of your ministry that failed to resolve with hundreds of employees in 12 years. Please approach the seriously surrounding of the land. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97212	Thank you. The break is approved. Now it's time for my colleague Vuciilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97213	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives in order to reiterate the importance of the law that is before us. The last commission was in the '80s. Based on the applicable law, none of them have been made. Will it be based on this which is today on our benches which are made and we will see it yet, but the fact is that we with our space and valuable resources, which is our agricultural land we do not have and do not manage as it would be in the spirit of a good master. And on the basis of this agricultural land, millions of incentives are paid, and I will look back only on what is called historical rights. In fact, when we entered the EU, then cattlemen who were cattlemen at the time acquired one privileged situation to get greater incentives than everyone else. Meanwhile, their stables became empty. The vast majority of them no longer hold cattle, and while our livestock is on their knees we have one group of privileged ones who pay off that so-called. historical rights only because they once held cattle that are no longer present. And cattlemen who are really having huge problems today are saying that it's precisely what could be called legalized robbery because it's also entered into the next programming period and continues, and it's high time to end it or at least review it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97214	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97215	Thank you. So, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Fair Croatia Club for at least ten minutes in order to point out once again all the illogicalities and illegalities that are abundant in this bill, so from the fact that the adoption procedures are not respected what the EU itself has warned us about through semesterly reports that we are obliged to deliver to them, that there is in fact the possibility of expropriating even the destruction of parentheses that are in line with the rules on simple buildings, even the removal of permanent pests if so assessed by the court expert or assessor. And against this decision, in fact, farmers themselves, or owners of these legal buildings and owners, have no right to appeal at the time. If it's not an unconstitutional thing, then I don't know what it is. So, in other words, you can crash a legal object, remove it now, and you can't complain about it. I think it's a serious problem, and I think there's still a lot to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97216	The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97217	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. I'd like a ten-minute break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. In these areas over the past hundred years, armies have changed, social arrangements have changed, state names have changed, but there are some things that have been constant, which is that we are talking about the Danube-Sava channel there since the time of Austro-Hungarian about whether the railway through the city center of Zagreb should rise up or should be brought under the ground, about the need to irrigate and talk about the cohesion. And now we're in 2022. And exactly where are we? Right there somewhere right at the beginning. The proposer himself in the introductory explanation of the law wrote a finding which says, the application of the law in practice showed that there are obstacles that slow down the commercialisation of agricultural land, and the second sentence, therefore, is the last law of 2015, on the basis of the procedure so far prescribed for the commercialisation of agricultural land no procedure has been implemented. And instead of doing a good analysis, one good comparison of the holograms we've had so far, and what we really want is a key question that we should always ask ourselves is what the goal is. Do we really want to have a commission? Do we really want that commission to be carried out? Whether we really want to solve this problem or we want to have a series of laws that we will pass in the assembly, then in 2022 another law will be passed, and for the next seven to ten years it will be concluded that it is not enforceable in certain eras. As I was giving a five-minute speech, I said that we're living in some new normal time that we're living in is insane. I absolutely think that the law on cohesion should be quick, effective and operational, and unfortunately that's not. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97218	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97219	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club for ten minutes to consult further, but actually point to a few things. Yes, the Law on the Komassation of Agricultural Land is necessary, it is necessary especially for Primorska Hrvatska, for the area from which we come, given the fragmentation of the cadastrian particles, to the complexity of the catastra. But there is also an obstacle to its realization, which they would like to point out in particular. It is in practice difficult to implement, especially in our part and for several reasons. Unsolved property relations, there are still some owners who were owners hundreds of years ago, their children scattered around the world, 30 co-owners on a 1,000-square plot, located in America, Australia, I don't even know the countries of Europe. After that, the fixed assets never resolved until the end the question of the assets of former owners who were after II. World War II has been defined as the citizenship of some other countries and the unresolved state of ownership. We have in practice that the cadastre after seven, eight years late for the grantovnica, that I express myself this plasticly, so especially in matters of possession, it is known that I don't yet know nono enlisted, and already the son has prescribed that particle to his son, and the purchase that I don't even talk about, and catastrian operatives, of course, who are not in line with the real situation on the ground. We think I'm okay with the law, but the preconditions aren't done and when one of these is done, and yet that's one agrarian reform, when such a complex system is done that should be aligned with other institutions, with other ministries and other and geodetic administrations, etc. Because we're really having an unrealistic field situation with what we really want to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97220	Comrade Kolarek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97221	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for ten minutes to consult a little more and strengthen our attitudes and point to facts that are important and important regarding this law. It is certainly one thing that this law will round up agricultural areas, solve property legal relations and, to me, what is most important, will come and reveal a lot more, a lot of the agricultural areas that are so far usurped and owned by the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we believe that this law and that the ministry and government are primarily determined, brave to go into the balance because it is necessary to launch further actions for and irrigation and all that is necessary for agricultural production to be rationalised and for our farmers to finally have a benefit from their agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97222	The apartment is approved. We have another request, dear colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97223	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to reconsider the context of this law itself. Let's start with the fact that we have a valid Law of Cooperation, which was adopted in 2015, as my predecessors have said, on which absolutely nothing was done. It would also point out that the current Agricultural Land Act, which was passed in 2018, is not legally in line with the existing Law on COMMASATION, and that actually speaks of the irreconcilability of this ministry and the non-compliance of the rules that we warn of a really long series. We believe that the very process of carrying out the commission is very complex and long-term and additional weight of the whole process will be that the unregulated land books and property legal relations are still, still unsettled and that the owners are inaccessible and unknown residence or residence. There is also a concern in the provisions relating to the composition of committees that a number of local self-governments will not have sufficient administrative capacity to carry out this job. In a public call that you published during last year or at the end of last year, where there was also a public call for a real statement of interest in the commission, you also called on regional self-government units, but in this law, the unit of regional self-government cannot be the bearers of the commission. All this actually leads to confusion and is actually talking about how this complex and long-term procedure will be and how this commission will actually work only in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97224	We have another request for a break, colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97225	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss this extremely important topic once again within the Reformist and HSLS Club. I was talking about the business two weeks ago when we were here discussing the agriculture strategy. I have made it clear that without conducting the comcommissioning process, we cannot talk at all about the implementation of the agricultural strategy. Today, 70% of Croatian farmers handle less than 5 hectares of land, and in northern Croatia, in northern counties, the average parcel is 0.38 hectares. Of course, without the combination, we cannot launch or implement the irrigation project, nor can we use the machinery in an adequate way, nor can we be competitors at all. I welcome the fact that the minister has now come out with this bill, however, we must make it quite clear that this law in order to go into realisation needs certain assumptions, which is above all, about this are colleagues and have said these are amendments and additions to the Law on Heritage as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books. So, without the new law on inheriting the comms, you know there's no way. And so what should certainly be done is to establish at the county level an institute that will provide free land-book cleaning service within 3 years and thus somehow force those property legal breakdowns that exist in all of these particles to be the key assumption of cohesion. And third, of course, to make it possible to replace land without taxation. We now have a system in which, therefore, when it comes to membership under this law, and which as you can see goes primarily in the direction of state land there is no taxation while private owners in exchange have double taxation, and that is also something that should certainly... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97226	Thank you. The break is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we'll have a little break by 11 and 15. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] I call on the now re-respected agriculture minister, Marija Vukovic, to give an explanation of the proposal for a law on the integration of agricultural land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97228	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Assembly MP and gentlemen of Parliament. Currently, the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land has been published in the National No. 51 of 2015. The application or non-application of this law has shown that there are certain obstacles that slow down the implementation of the agricultural land comcommissioning process, which is true that this Ministry of Agriculture has repeatedly initiated the units of local self-government chosen as the pilot of the area by starting, but unfortunately this did not work out. On the basis of the procedure so far laid down for the accumulation of agricultural land, therefore no action has been taken. This, of course, affects the efficiency of the use of agricultural land that has been fragmented into a large number of small area parcels, irregular forms, often inappropriate for agricultural production. The law could not adequately achieve the objective and purpose of the land of agriculture, and the commissioning, the rounding of agricultural land of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of this proposal is to reduce administrative barriers, better and more effective implementation of agricultural land comassation procedures, putting agricultural land into operation all in order to increase productivity, create more added value, better and better quality use of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of a new Law on the Komassation of Agricultural Land will create preconditions for the rounding of small-scale cadastrian particles and irregular forms in larger and more regular, create assumptions for increasing agricultural production and better conditions for the processing of agricultural land by regulating roads and municipal networks. Pre-conditions will be created to better address property-legal relations on land, which will ultimately have a significant and positive impact on the development and improvement of rural areas. For the implementation of the law in question, the funds are planned in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and in the plans for 2023 and 2024 with total funds for the first 18,000 hectares to be found in the future programme developed by the Government provided through the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. The proposed legislation will allow for the position of agricultural production of fragmented and abandoned agricultural land, especially for those whose access is difficult. The environment optimises the shape and surface of agricultural land, enables planning and construction of access roads, water structures for meliorations and other infrastructures. It is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a programme for the accumulation of agricultural land produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, which shall establish the implementation of agricultural land co-operation on the indicative surface of land for a specified period and in accordance with the planned financial resources. It is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture shall establish and manage an electronic-based information system in the form of a register of communication. It is prescribed that the commission is launched on the basis of an idea-based solution of the co-operation that will be produced by a unit of local self-government, that is, the city of Zagreb when it is found that there are significant areas of agricultural land not used for the purpose of agricultural production or poor exploitation, and more than 50% of that land is located in their area, which must be in line with the programme. It is prescribed that, in order to speed up the process of agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture will take the decision to draw up a proposal for an idea-based solution of a commission, i.e. to initiate a commission procedure if the unit of local self-government has not adopted a decision on a proposal for an idea solution for significant areas not used or used poorly and that the ministry assumes responsibility for the process of co-operation that the local self-government unit has launched but does not implement. It is prescribed that the holders of the commission can be the unit of local self-government and the city of Zagreb or the Ministry of Agriculture. It is prescribed that the Commission shall be appointed as a collective body coordinating the regulation of property real-legal and other land relations, works on the construction of works for meliorations and other works, and the preparation shall draw up proposals for acts brought by the operator. It is prescribed that the expert basis for the implementation of the co-composition is a co-communication project which determines the areas in which the work will be carried out, the sources of financing, the deadlines for implementation, the list of land of the participants of the co-commissioning that has been introduced into the commercial cluster and others. The allocation of land by each participant of the commission to which the compensation belongs shall be determined in accordance with the provisions governing the assessment of the value of the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97229	I'd like to thank the minister, so we'll go with the replicas. First up, comrade Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97230	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. The efficient use of agricultural land on a large part of the area is limited precisely because of narrowed and mutually remote working surfaces. We know that the productivity of Croatian agriculture is 31% of the EU average. The average size of the agricultural holding is slightly less than 7 hectares. It is certain that the rounding of agricultural land will contribute to efficiency and, of course, to greater offerings that we certainly support. Property, legal issues will be resolved, but my question to you is whether all units of local self-government have sufficient capacity to implement it and what will happen to those who may not have enough resources for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97231	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97232	Thank you very much for asking. For those units of local self-government that do not have sufficient capacity and this has proved to be a lack of existing law, the responsibility and possibility of the Ministry of Agriculture is now prescribed to take such action if it is in conformity with the interests, if it is agricultural land that can ensure more valuable production. Also, as far as productivity is concerned, that it is low than it was five, six years ago at the start of this government's mandate was somewhere between 26, 27% compared to the EU average, and even when we started working the strategy it was 29. It's 31% today. We're making our indicators come true. She won't jump overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97233	Comrade Ban-Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97234	Thank you. Dear Minister, the applicable Law on Cooperation was adopted in 2015 but as we have heard so far, nothing has been done at all. Last year, it was you ministers along with the prime minister on several occasions who announced that the law is not good and that it should be changed. Yes, I agree that it should have been harmonised long ago because a number of activities under the provisions of that law are carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency, which was repealed by the Agricultural Land Act in 2018. Since then, no harmonisation of the legislative framework has been carried out, so full of four years. As a result, no EU funds have been used for this purpose. In particular, in the rural development programme of 2014-2020, the specific sub-measure 4.3 Support for investment in infrastructure related to the development, modernisation or adaptation of agriculture or forestry, the type of operation two, the accumulation of agricultural land was planned, with the aid intensity up to 100% of the total eligible costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97235	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97236	Thank you very much. So, I wouldn't be saying right now if we hadn't used the funds. We have all the funding of the Rural Development Programme that is the answer to previous discussions, we use them well, we used the basic funds, so we spent at 85% for the period 2014-2020 which led us to fifth place in the EU and that is the statistical data that is correct. So the funds that are not used in accordance with specific objectives and rules for the use of the fund are then rerouted where necessary, and we had crises and other structural needs. The funds were also not used among other things, but of course they were used for other equally important purposes because the law provides for who can carry, move, who can be a beneficiary of the funds and there is no interest and we are solving these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97237	Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97238	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. We are witnessing that agricultural production is growing back several years according to all statistics in the Republic of Croatia. As the head of the local self-government unit, I am a witness that the government has a great incentive for agricultural land, and I believe that the law of numbers, the law of the market, will do its part to bring good to this law, and that it will also round up agricultural parcels, but also regulate these relations between the units of local self-government and the Ministry of Agriculture. My question is if we could expect some more concrete measures and how much of these changes, the most recent amendments to the Agricultural Land Act will affect the change of the regulations regarding work carried out by employees in municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97239	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97240	Given the deadlines prescribed in front of the units of local self-government, it is a major and important task of rapid implementation, but the Ministry of Agriculture will appoint one of its members to the teams. An information programme is being developed that should speed up procedures and finally propose points that are in line with the Agriculture Strategy and the draft of our strategic plan that will avoid any ambiguities, allow for quick, clear ranking and settlement without any objections and doubts, which is particularly news, including the major reforms that bring about these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97241	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97242	Dear Minister, Croatia has slightly more than 154,000 of my family's agricultural economies. What is the average area of agricultural land within one OPG and what is the average plot by size and where are we compared to the rest of the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97243	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97244	The parcels relating to that agricultural land registered in the ARCOD average Croatian owned or used, in the legal use of one farmer, the agricultural holding in the register, seem 6.7 ha. If we take into account all the smaller areas that exist in Croatia, which are somewhat processed, which are not in ARCOD because they do not meet the basic rules, then it goes up to 11 hectares. As far as the average size of the plot here is concerned, the exact data is now slightly more than 0.8 hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97245	Comrade Chicken, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97246	Thank you, Mr. President. Your ministry announced a public call to those interested in the commission in 10 months last year, and through the implementation of the National Resistance and Recovery Plan until 2026. Since we know that a little less than 30 units of local self-government have come to the same call, and considering this law after today's debate and the very rapid adoption of more than welcome, I am interested in when we can expect, so a final public call and therefore the implementation of a commission to interested local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97247	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97248	We are, we will respect the deadlines that are ahead of us and which are very demanding. So, after adoption, if the Croatian Parliament supports the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, the Government is obliged to make a Cooperation Programme on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture within six months. As for a public call at the end of October 2021, 23 local and regional self-government units reported interest for 46.6 thousand hectares. We've got 18 thousand acres of funds secured along with the State Geodetic Administration and the others involved in the whole program. We are now working and completing a priority proposal that will be such that we can use these 18 thousand hectares in time, if these 18 thousand hectares in time, we will also combine everything else that is possible in Croatia. This is a challenge and it needs to be achieved in a short time, so let's start with what we have, out of these 46,000 and 600 acres.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97249	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97250	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as indicated for the commission here, 250 million kuna is foreseen from the NPOO, and 13 million kuna is monitored for the programme of permanent monitoring of agricultural land. And now according to your available literature, your plan was to pass the law by the end of 2021, so we're a little late. Then you state that the plan would be until the end of the first quarter of 2026 that the commission must be completed for at least 18 thousand hectares mentioned, and by the end of the second quarter of 2026, it should be fully established and equipped for 90 stations to permanently monitor the situation, or for monitoring. That's what I am, what I've come to. Now, do you have a complete picture of how much land we actually have that needs to be rounded up or subjected to a membership, that's where you mentioned some 46,000 or how much, so please give me concrete information. The plan, or this law, provides for 18 grand, when will everything else come to order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97251	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97252	This is the result of a call for a statement of interest, 23 answers 46,000 and 600 hectares. Now those of you who are in the state are working on prioritization to compose the first 18,000 acres. Of course, this government will strive and increase resources if needed. Our goal is, you've all said well about the deadlines, to finish these 18,000 acres. This will not prevent us if everything is well or when everything is going well, and then we will go ahead and increase the program. Our goal is 18, the first statement of interest has shown that there is an interest in 46 and 600. How much total we'll see from the next calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97253	- Mrs. Crescent. Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97254	Here's a thank you. Dear Minister, so we all agreed that the competitiveness and development of our agricultural production is crucial. I'm glad we're discussing this law today, but I also think that we can all agree and today it's already been said that for and the implementation of this law, changes and additions to the Law on Heritage, the Law on Land Books and the abolition of double taxation are necessary, so please keep us informed, so these are the resolutions of your fellow ministers, you certainly know at what stage the amendments to these laws are, when we're going to discuss them, when they're going to take place, and as I said as a necessary assumption for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97255	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97256	I understand your question, but I wouldn't be able to answer specifically now when, when laws will be changed for which, for whose proposal this Ministry of Agriculture is not competent. But for the first 18,000 acres, and for much more than the prioritization we are now doing, and the data we have along with the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice and Administration will not be necessary to amend other regulations, for some for which it would be good... Maybe so, but for these first ones we've given ourselves, it won't be necessary. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97257	- Mrs. Crescent. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97258	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, therefore, within the rural development programme through measure 4, investment in physical assets, in particular operation 4.3.2 relating to the commercialisation and regulation of agricultural and forest infrastructure was available to us at 32m euros to invest in the commercialisation of agricultural and private forest land, a minimum of 5 000 euros per project and a maximum of up to 3m euros per project. How concrete is it and has there been any realisation of projects in the period behind us, and this concerns the sharing of private agricultural or private forest land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97259	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97260	The operation intended for the accumulation of agricultural land was not used. This Ministry of Agriculture has done everything possible to use it in a way that we have changed the rural development programme and only to this extent have we made it possible to finance project technical documentation. This was not enabled in the election program since '14. Until '20. than we've changed that. However, users could be those who did and did not show interest, so this law now foresees that where Croatian agriculture and rural areas need it, and the interest does not recognise JLS can be launched by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97261	- Mrs. Crescent. Chimpraga.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97262	Thank you. Dear Minister, can the Republic of Croatia actively participate in the conflict in such a way as to secure the funds for the purchase of land involved in a commercial thunderstorm if one of the participants wants to sell land? In the field, we have such a situation that people have a few dozen square meters of agricultural land and they would like to get rid of it by paying a market price that goes up to about 50 kuna per metre of square agricultural land, they would rather agree to pay off than get those few dozen squares in some other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97263	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97264	Your Honor, we understand your question. But with the law we propose we want to achieve our reform goal, we want to combine those 18 thousand acres that will be able to be made as quickly as possible, easily and with the greatest effects. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do everything possible not to stop at those 18 thousand hectares and to respond to some specific and individual situations, and this law is designed to adopt a programme, to spend the funds within the deadline provided and to be practically a pilot of 18 thousand for all other things to follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97265	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we often have situations where half a hectares have 7-8 owners of whom half of them are no longer alive, and the other half is scattered as crab children around the world from Australia, America, New Zealand, etc. At this first meeting, it is insisted that Article 20 is defined as insisting at a live meeting. Do you intend to give some opportunity to engage in a video connection in accordance with the 21st century liquids so that the whole process may become more legal and credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97267	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97268	I understand your question. So the law provides for the consent of at least 50% of the owners, 50 plus 1 who have at least 67% of the area. In addition, since it is a very challenging procedure which has not been operational for decades and has been affected by real legal property legal relations, it is envisaged for those who are not there, a procedure for the appointment in written form of proxies is envisaged and legal institutes from other areas for similar situations are used. It's also the novelty of this law. And that's the proposal put forward by an expert working group of geodes, lawyers and agronomists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97269	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Under the current law, 5 pilot projects have been implemented, but it has been found that the law needs to be improved and that is why the ministry has drafted a new law, called a public call, 22 local self-government units reported. I wonder if you know where these 5 pilot projects were carried out and what the results were and what area of Croatia are these 22 units of local self-government coming from? Are they particularly located in some part of Croatia where there is a stronger interest in the commission? By the time the totals of these 18,000 hectares are planned, and if there is a possibility that the financial resources will increase by the commission, given that more than 46,000 hectares have been reported on this call, there is an interest, there is only a question of whether there will be funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97271	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97272	As far as the 5 pilot areas were concerned, they were implemented in different areas of Croatia, including Dalmatia and Istria and the continent, they planned to forgive. At the end of 2019 or early 2020, we are independent and not knowing then that we will propose this reform activity for the National Programme for Resistance and Recovery because we did not all know in the world together that his needs would come, send written requests and enquiries to show interest in continuing planned activities. 4 local self-government units said they were interested in these 5, but unfortunately they did not specify it, through discussions on the use of the rural development programme. These today's 46.600 hectares must be processed professionally in a way that those who are skilled at this must say which of these is appropriate but we already see that we will not have problems with the indicators and that there will be more than that. which is planned through the implementation of the commission and we will try to raise funds if there is a need. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97273	Thank you. Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97274	Thank you. Dear Ministers in the area of my municipality's membership was partly spent in the 1940s, and in part in the 1980s, some agricultural areas, i.e. the constituencies, remained unsolved. Since I am a long-standing municipal chief and I wanted to solve this problem, and together with the county commission for the implementation of the commission, we have tried to solve it on several occasions and by law from the time of Yugoslavia and under this 2015 Law of Cooperation, but it is still the status quo. It's still not solved for a reason because the law is inconclusive and has not been brought to life in the field. Do you feel that this new law will remove that trombone, simplify and that we will get rid of everything that has cost us through the implementation of this and that we will finally remove those pieces of glass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97275	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97276	Instead of 17 bodies, 11 bodies and 1 commission that draws up drafts of acts, public procurement, information system, the possibility of a commission being carried out where the ministry cannot or is not prepared is not a unit of local self-government, and it is necessary to use legal institutes that exist in this country and have not been used or could not be used through the previous law guarantee that we are taking a major step forward. Secured funds through the NPO are another significant step and guarantee that these 18,000 are the least hectares we're going to combine, and that's much more than we've done in the last decades. And of course we'll also be willing to look at all individual cases and be ready to upgrade the funds, we've shown that in all these times and for all structurally important activities, this one will be upgraded by means of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97277	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97278	Thank you. The Ministers of Respect under the current Co-operation of Agricultural Land Act of 2015 did not initiate any procedure, thus missing the possibility of withdrawing funds from the rural development programme for this purpose from 2014 to 2020. You say now that the funds have been spent, but they are generally at the level of the programme, but not for that purpose because the commission has not been implemented as a fact. Now the units of local self-government or the holders of the proceedings will co-finance 20% of the amount, and could be financed up to 100% of the amount under the programme that was at the time. This is how it is a burden to local self-government units, and units of local self-government have been left out of it regardless of what it is in that call for a statement of interest the units of regional self-government were involved, so please comment on what it is. And please explain how you're going to how you will actually ensure transparency in the work of committees, transparency in work. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97279	You'll have to stop at one comment, thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97280	One commission instead of 6 as provided for by the law will make it significantly easier. 11 bodies instead of 17 will make it significantly easier. Local self-government units could use the operation, the planned operation from the rural development programme. They didn't show any interest. We can't make them use a gun. So now those who have shown any JLS, any regional self-government knows what they have to do because it's written in a public call and that's why this Ministry of Agriculture can instead run everything, provide them with missing personnel, missing technical, missing material resources, and so now we're going to make all these 18,000 acres least of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97281	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, here's the first thing I have to say is that here's at least since I've been here some months to and a half of the most recent legal proposals and acts have gone from your ministry, so here I thank you and your associates for putting agriculture at the very level it deserves in these times. As I come from the region of Dalmatia, we know the circumnavigation that it is especially I would say difficult to implement in the region of Dalmatia because we know that small parcels, and for example in the Sinjsko Polje a few 10 years ago, when the field was melliorated, there was a significant compromise. However, by inheriting and dividing the country, this has taken place again at the initial stage, so I don't know if you're thinking about, for example, Austria's example to make it impossible to further divide the country into inheritance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97283	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97284	Thank you very much for your comments and these commendations, they are important and important for the work of this Ministry of Agriculture and motivated. This law stipulates that all that is collated cannot be shared in the next 99 years. Also, this Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made certain proposals through the Law on Amendments, through the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land which prevents further parceling and destruction of agricultural land, so we are working on both regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97285	Thank you. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97286	... What? [[Speaker not enabled]] Here, in these 18 thousand hectares that you've decided to be 1% of the land that's now been processed, this being processed, if these 313 million to that somehow were to be distributed, it would have turned out to be some 17,000 and something kuna per hectare, most of it is of course from this European fund. But I'm curious, let's say in art. The 17th is about a proposal for an idea solution, and now it is on JLS that you will monitor that things that you have experience happen on local self-government, and what is what you think is the key difference between this law and it will finally be implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97287	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97288	So the program is the foundation, the programme by the government, one program, not individual programs as planned... The program will start with what the funds are provided for. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is also one of the key differences, no funds were secured by previous regulation or previous regulation. It is further referred to as one of the key concepts of the idea of a solution to cohesion. This is the basis for the launch of the commission after the adoption of the program in the idea of solving the unit of local... JLS can naturally upgrade the Ministry of Agriculture. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As an idea solution is the basis for the launch, and it should be adopted by the representative body, so the comcommissioning project that experts will do on the basis of the implemented public procurement process is the professional basis for the implementation of the commission, the decision I said was taken by the representative body, the financial resources were provided, the number of commissions is significantly smaller, the representatives of other bodies were involved in the way that they proposed and which legal institutes we could use. The future information system is interoperable and multi-functional and foresees networking of all bodies in the country that can contribute to resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97289	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97290	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, history of Istria, Dalmatia, the island and the coast of the last 100 years. Unfortunately, it is such that people have emigrated and been forced into a difficult life, but the other owners of interesting particles are in the midst of some large areas, owners that are 50 or 100 years ago. They died in a New Youk, Melborne, and they're still running, it's never been carried out grantically, and consequently it's not catastrian. And now I want to know how to do it, how to solve it in one right way, given that your intensity I repeat is good ministry, but all this rest I don't know how much it follows. It's about interesting areas in the middle of one whole agricultural unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97292	Everything that the MPs pointed out, and it is related to the Adriatic Croatia, is true, and we also see it by the initiatives that we have received or answers to a public call, and it seems unfortunately to me that we do not have enough expressions of interest from the Adriatic Croatia, and that is where the commission would probably bring crucial changes. We now have to deal with these 18 thousand hectares that will prioritize, which will prioritize professional bodies in a way that will spend resources within the deadline and will bring good to Croatia. Of course we'll continue to deal with another situation, but this ministry and this government can't solve all these problems in one day, put them all on the table because then they won't solve any, let's take it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97293	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97294	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, so several times you've listed all those cuts that you've decided to make at all because the former law has shown that it's a trom, that it's inert and everything else. What I was looking at in this law, I was looking at this part behind a decision to start a business. So, you've cut all of this short about the decision to launch the commission, the decision is made, and behind it what I've been able to read, I hope I haven't forgotten something, are four different kinds of solutions that are going to be made, so based on certain provisions, and now my question is very operational, so let's cut all of this short, we still have four types of solutions, four different types of solutions, no complaints, but there's an administrative dispute in view of everything else. They based the Law on general administrative procedure there are certain deadlines, my experience is for those four solutions will be days months and months. Have you thought about any possible shortening and perhaps some kind of solution in one solution to two subjects or something like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97295	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97296	A solution to determine land for common needs is made, a solution to the cohesion is made. Of course, this solution to the cohesion needs to become a forceful one. The solution to the commissioning process is also another solution, you've counted them all well. However, the proposal was attended by experts appointed by the Faculty of Geodetics, the State Geodetic Administration, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, so there were five, six people within the commission, a narrow working group of the largest experts in this area, using the already existing legal institutes significantly. Of course, this ministry, as always, will consider all the remarks and suggestions it hears in HS so as to see if it is possible to further speed up the procedures. As for that first solution you mentioned it must exist under the same specific rules for common needs. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97297	Thank you. And Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97298	Thank you. Your Honors Minister. Here's the assessment of the state of the law says that the Law on Cooperation has been in force since 20 May 2015, which states that the application of the law in practice has shown that there are obstacles that slow down the balance, and then the item behind this has not been implemented under any of the procedures so far prescribed for the agricultural land. Did it take us seven years to rediscover the law? We lost seven years, out of the 30 years of the existence of the Republic of Croatia in which the issue of state agricultural land today has not been resolved, and not a single compromise procedure has been implemented, at least according to what it says here. The commission is someone's mother, someone's stepmom, and without a violent way of working, it's not going to work. I believe that this law as well as the one before who had all the beautiful epithets, decorative adjectives at that time will also not solve the problem... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97299	Thank you very much. We have an answer here for now, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97300	Well, look, we had an 80,000 or a few acres of forest land in 2019, and 6,000 acres under contract, so today we have over 50, and we offered 70,000 in the contest. We have had and we have a stalemate also on agricultural land, but we have made programmes, we have almost 200 competitions that have ended or are under way, and this amendment also addresses the key issues that no one will ever be able to make discretionary decisions in this process again, and that is the key value of this law that deals with a long and difficult topic in Croatian agriculture. We also had a few percent bargaining for the consumption of the Rural Development Programme, so today we have 105% contracted, 85% of the original allocation, spent and we've already started to spend new meanings only based on experience to say that we're going to do this within the specified time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97301	Okay. Thank you very much. And in the end, Mrs. Oreshkovic, who was not mistakenly registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97302	Thank you, Chairman. Since it's about first reading I'm going to say something more like a suggestion, as a comment not as much as a question, just for thinking. So I think that Croatia should turn to strengthening its public administration and its professionalisation. I think we should generally leave one bad habit that every time something needs to be done we form a special commission. Although you have explained in your replies to other replicas that this law reduces the number of commissions, my suggestion would be that we leave the concept at all as such. In fact, we will also have a situation here that numerous units of local self-government will not be able to form their own committees according to these criteria, and then their roles will be taken over by the commission formed by the ministry, but we are thus creating chaos in the system. You don't know who's responsible for what and all the time we have an ad hoc system instead of having professionalized bodies. who have their knowledge and track record in solving some problems. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97303	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97304	The commission is a collective body appointed by the holder, consisting of seven members, everyone has deputies. The president from the carrier's ranks, it may be units of local self-government, the City of Zagreb or the Ministry of Agriculture, require certain professional conditions. Two members from the ranks of state officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, one from the ranks of judges, judicial advisers from authorised land-book references and one from the ranks of officials of the State Geodetic Authority, and one from among the owners. This represents quite a acceleration, sets up a system, so it sets up a search for certain professional qualifications, but sets up the system in a way that all both owners and JLS and ministry experts who can help the State Geodetic Administration are inside. Any proposal that comes to HS should be seriously considered, but I will stress this bill on it. An intensive group of the country's largest experts worked alongside the ministry. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97305	Thank you, Madam Minister. You have no more replicas for now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you are, Mrs. Petir, the Committee on Agriculture, of course. Here you go, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Madam Minister with co-workers, MPs and MPs. The HS Agriculture Committee discussed the 50th session held on 23 February 2022. Proposal for a Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 10 February 2022. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as a home working body. In the debate, board members gave a positive assessment of the proposal for an act. Due to unresolved property-legal relations, a question has been asked about the possibility of speeding up resolution. It is also asked how many units of local self-government have shown interest in carrying out the coordination procedures. It has also been said that the work of the Committee for the Implementation of Cooperation Procedures should be transparent. It is proposed to consider the possibility of reducing the percentage of the proposed Article 20(6) concerning the consent of the owner of the land for the initiation of the coordination process. It is also pointed to the good practices of some units of local self-government in which agricultural areas are already surrounded through payments of support for the rounding up of agricultural land. It was said that Article 20 should have laid down rules for the identification of legal persons, and justified reasons why the owner of the land could not participate in a landowners' meeting including the possibility of participating representatives of the owners. It is proposed to prescribe the possibility of holding these meetings remotely. The act should make it clear and provide for sanctions for the performer of expert work on the work of drawing up a proposal for a commercial project in the event of a failure to comply with the deadline for the proposed Article 29(2) of the proposal. It is also proposed to set an exact time limit for calling together the conference participants proposed in Article 30 of the Law proposal. In addition, a question has been raised as to who other competent persons benefiting from the transfer of land for common needs without payment of compensation as proposed in Article 32(2). It was said that the conditions for the exclusion of land from the constitutive cluster should be more clearly laid down, as proposed in Article 34(2) of the Law. It asked what contributions the legislator had in mind regarding the obligation to propose Article 45(4) of the Law, and since the Law on Administrative Taxes excludes the cost of membership, and the Law on Real estate Tax excludes the land to be collated. It has been said that Article 46(2) should make it clear that the treatment of special devices which can be separated from the land without major damage, or who will remove the same if the previous owner does not do so and who will bear the cost of removal? It is also necessary to specify more clearly which criteria will establish the value of useful plantations and devices which cannot be separated without greater damage from land and which the new owner is obliged to take on with the real value compensation to the previous owner, as proposed in paragraph 3 of Article 46. As Article 47 of the Law proposes that, following the issue of the applicable authorisation, water melioration structures are handed over to the management of the legal person responsible for water management, it is asked whether these are Croatian waters. An explanation of the comments of the Croatian Agronomic Society from e-consultation has been requested to warn that the agronomic profession is marginalised with the exception of the agronoms that are employees of the Ministry of Agriculture that will be included in the implementation of this act. A representative of the ministry responded mostly to the observations made while a statement was submitted and written on the remainder of the observations forwarded to all committee members. If one of the representatives who are not members of the committee is interested in obtaining an answer, he may contact our committee. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament by a majority of votes of 7 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention: the proposal for a law on the integration of agricultural land is accepted. The comments and proposals tabled in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for a law on agricultural land storage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97307	Thank you very much. And if there aren't any other reporters, I'm opening a hearing. And the first is Mrs Vesna Vucilovic, who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Minister, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As we've already heard, the last commission was carried out in the last century, in the 1980s, when the combined companies at the time, and today large companies have spent rounding agricultural parcels. All of this basically brings our family farms into an extremely unfavourable position, because if more than 30 years of non-commassion has not been done then it is not surprising that the areas just depleted are one of the fundamental problems of our agricultural production, but also limiting the development factor. On larger parcels there are lower costs, the use of large machinery is facilitated, the total cost of production is reduced, and consequently increases productivity less than in the EU. And we don't need to be too wise and think about it to come to the conclusion that exactly this less productivity of our agricultural production is the consequence of these decapitated parcels. Therefore, the impact of the conflict is really very important, because it is not only on productivity but also creates better conditions for land treatment. It also has a positive impact on road and communal network regulation and ultimately has an impact on the development and improvement of rural space itself. Now, why we haven't done anything in this field in 30 years is, in my opinion, a key question today that we should get an answer to, because it's not something that we do from time to time, but it has to be done continuously. Because if we have a valid law for six and a half years and we see that it has not received the desired results, even the agency in the meantime has abolished what it means to work on the membership is really the first and basic question why the ministry has not long since initiated the procedure or amended the existing law or the adoption of a new law that is on our benches today because we all know that property legal relations are complex and are often obstacles and serious investments, entrepreneurship activities, and here when we talk about agriculture and agricultural land are really one significant limiting factor because we have a catastrus of one condition, in the garland of another, land books are often from the time of Austro-Hungarians, and then what I have led us into the replica that we have a half-hectare where half of the owners are no longer living, and the other half of them live all over the world. So this response that I received from the Minister about Article 20 and this first meeting where owners should say I don't know how much to implement, here's the most honest one, because the vast majority of them are not at all interested in these small plots. How will you reach these 50% owners plus one to 67%, respectively, of the total area of agricultural land in the area in which it is planned, it seems to me that this will remain a considerable and significant problem which, again and through the basis of this law, will be a limiting factor. In addition, there are still some problems left, and I really have to ask myself why all of us are just every area whenever there's a bit of a scratch under the surface, you can see what's best, the mildest words can be characterized as nerada and negligent because we all know that we've come from this kind of socialist arrangement that's been there for some 45 years in these areas where social property meant that everything is everyone's and nobody's, but it can't be an excuse for not being able to work for the last 30 years, and according to some information from people who are in this profession, geodes, etc., when I've been preparing for this debate they told me that we've even got a total of about 15 million catastaric particles, of course not all agricultural land is there and construction land, but it's one such chaos that this kind of chaos that I've been preparing for this debate to go away and that we're really going to be able to do it all of 30 years to do it for 30 years. When you add all this to it, these unsettled land books will again be one of those serious bites. But here I congratulate the minister for going into the process at all because some say there are unprocessed land between 700 and 800,000 hectares. It seems a little too large to me, but there are some who say it is, so that these 18 and 46,000 hectares, respectively, that are provided through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, do not infuse security. I guess this is high, too. I come from Slavonia there is indeed every inch processed. Where's that 700, 800,000 I don't know, but when you're driving down Dalmatia, then there's what's grown up in a chic and too much. And I believe it's not a number like that, but there's plenty of unprocessed land there. So what's crucial and what the implementation of the systematic co-operation should get is actually an increase in the value of agricultural land. Now, we can't even look at it without taking into account one fact, which is that in 2023, the agricultural land embargo expires for sale to foreign investors who are not interested precisely because of the fragmentation and weak infrastructure which, in fact, leads to the current price of agricultural land in Croatia being among the lowest in EU countries. Foreigners are not interested in small plots. They are interested in large parcels where they will naturally and productively make their profits acceptable. Now, if it's been waiting that long, if we're in a bit of a hurry now, then here's quite a coincidence, and the European funds are financing this commission, and it kind of matches that suspension, meaning the runout of the embargo on the sale of agricultural land to foreign investors. I'm no supporter of conspiracy theory, but somehow it all worked out nicely. And these are the real questions that we have to ask today because in Slavonia today, foreigners and Hungarians and Serbia who have dual citizenship buy valuable agricultural land both in Baranja and in Vukovar-Srijem County, and prices vary depending on the size of the plot. So that's what's happening now. And we're running out of valuable resources now, and that's our agricultural land. 2023. will of course be more, but the site is not interested in small plots. They're interested in large parcels where they can make their own profits. There are still some purely technical issues about who is, for example, the competent person over the land for common needs. So Article 32(2), so I don't know how long the whole process will take. In accordance with Article 29(2), the performer is obliged, within 6 months, only to draw up a proposal for a co-composition project, and then, while that is all, it is a process that will last. It's not going to work that fast. So we're already seeing by these deadlines that it's going to take quite a while. Let's say so too. In 46, it leaves a lot of ambiguity and open questions that should be removed until the second reading. Some things will be defined by sublegals, maybe it would be better to put it in the law. There are a lot of ambiguities, and Croatian sovereigns will be restrained in this first reading, we support it to go into co-consummation, but that some things are more detailed, more detailed, more concretely defined by the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97309	Thank you. We will continue, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, to speak to the distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97310	Respected vice presidents, respected ministers, secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is after the failure of the 2015 Cooperation Act. The government decided to go with the new law, with a simpler procedure and a clearer procedure of jurisdiction in making decisions. The special incentive to pass the law is absolutely certain to receive 263 million kuna within the NPOO to enable a total of at least 18,000 hectares by the end of the first quarter of 2026. Of course, compared to 900 thousand acres of oracies, and 700 thousand acres of unprocessed land, it's obviously an almost insignificant area, so here we can't talk about real compatriation, we're talking about a pilot of a commercial project. However, from the experience of the conflict over the past half century and the complete collapse of the past law, we do not look with optimism or the realization of this pilot of the communication. I was already talking about 70% of Croatian farmers processing less than 5 hectares of land. In northern Croatia, the average plot is 0.38 hectares. We also know that the composition of the assumption of the implementation of the irrigation project is the basis of the competitiveness of our agriculture. Compared to Mediterranean countries, we irrigate 5 times less surfaces, and I have already brought out several times in the debate on the Agriculture Strategy example of German potato producers, I am talking about potatoes because it is a food that is the agricultural product most represented in northern Croatia, so each other in Germany has plots of more than 50 hectares, in Croatia it is only every 70 hectares. The current structure of agricultural land throughout Croatia shows that we have an average of 0.8 hectares per parcel with 160 thousand agricultural holdings, making us uncompetitive at the beginning. That's why I've stressed today and I'm going back to the Agriculture Strategy that we discussed two weeks ago that without the commissioning of any agriculture development strategy in our country, they have no chance. Unfortunately, if we remain only on this law, and do not offer parallel first amendments to the Law on Heritage and the Law on Land Books that would finally prevent further and every time the resuscitation of property, there is unfortunately no chance of membership. Also, if we don't establish bodies at the same time as this county law within 3 g. have the task of providing a free service for cleaning up the garter and catastra, and the owners will not be given that deadline for the obligation to clean up the commissions will not stand a chance again. And third, if we don't set up land banks, if we don't allow replacements without a tax burden of 3%, not just under the Law of Compassion, but for every land exchange and the whole idea of rounding becomes questionable. We have here today an incredible situation where when we have land swaps in these 18 thousand acres there are no taxes, and when we have the replacements of private people's land then we have double taxation. Such an approach is totally unacceptable. Here I propose to the minister that as soon as possible she directs the initiative to the competent ministry, the Ministry of Finance, for changes to this manner of taxation. All of what I'm talking about is particularly important to us in Varazdin County and in northern Croatia because for example, of 60 thousand hectares of agricultural areas in Varazdin County is only 30 thousand in the ARKO system owned and received incentives, and 30 thousand are not, so they are completely out of the system. This whole process must be monitored not only with the envisaged 263 million kunas of European money and 50 million kuna as foreseen by national funds as we see it, but also with strong and continuous funding from the state over the next 10 years. Because the indicative cost of the commission, that is very important to say, is about 2,000 euros per hectare. For example, the price of hectares in northern Croatia is between 5 and 10 thousand hectares, and when we take the average at the level of the entire Croatia, the price is less than 3.5 thousand euros. Of course, the implementation of the systematic commission would result in an increase in the value of agricultural land, and we are all aware of the facts, which was just a moment ago, that with the beginning of 2023. expires on the sale of agricultural land to foreign investors. It is precisely because of this fragmentation and weak infrastructure that agricultural land prices in Croatia are among the lowest in EU countries. For example, in the Czech Hectare of the country it is worth 7.5 thousand euros, in neighbouring Slovenia 18.5 thousand euros, in Italy 42,000 euros, for the Netherlands and some other countries not to speak at all. In spite of everything, the fact that we are talking about cohesion has come out with this, as is the bill, that it has certainly not been sufficient for more serious confirmations, but yet European money is positive. And to conclude, so this law has a chance if it's part of a whole package of legal changes, firstly, without what I've been saying about amending the Law on Heritage, amending the Law on Land Books and amending the Double Taxation Act, there's no way. Therefore, if it is followed by an amendment to the entire amendments to the law, the continuity of the investment, and what I was also talking about, is the establishment of a system that will make clearly necessary cohesion acceptable to farmers, and thus possible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97311	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of MOST and time will be shared by Mr. Petrov and Mr. Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97312	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, agricultural land is of good strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. It's a strategic resource. And then it's not a strategic resource just for the Republic of Croatia and the future of the Republic of Croatia, but for the future of the whole world. Is that why the commissions are necessary? They did. The commission is one of the preconditions for the development of agriculture. The cost of land circulation has a direct impact on the competitiveness of agricultural production. At the time you have rounded, arranged agricultural areas, the amount of product you produce is higher with less spent funds. That's why it's important that the land is polluted and that's why it's important. It's also important to say where we are today. Average size of parcel entered in ARCOD at Croatia level 0.87 hectares. There is an even worse situation in Zagreb County where 0.57 hectares is the average size of the plot. The most tragic is in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where 0.23 hectares is the average size of the plot. And that's the current state. What's been done in the last 20, 30 years to change that? In 2009, the government adopted a land circulation programme for 2009-2021, nothing happened. The government had the possibility to withdraw more than 300 million kuna from EU funds from 2014 to 2020. Pulled nothing. The government passed the Cooperation Act 2015. It's a Jacobine company. Commission zero to this day. This government hasn't done anything in the last five years. I'm lying, she did something, she claimed after five years that the law wasn't right. That's what she did. So don't be angry with grief, which is also misery. And today, in front of us, is this law. Just one little line before I explain why he's troublesome. The largest commission carried out in the area of Slavonia and Baranja 490,000 hectares surrounded by a built channel network, drain systems where necessary. The largest agricultural capacity in Slavonia and Baranja. The sadness is that it was done during the former Yugoslavia. From that moment to this day, nothing. Today we have a law in which unfortunately we can determine that this one is as impertinent as Jacob's incompetence. Why? The government boasts that it has awarded 380 million kuna for the commission. It's not enough. The government has made absolutely nothing known that it will resolve property legal relations in order to carry out the commission. I was expecting a minimum here and a minister of justice to tell us that this will be done, what measures will be taken, which legal framework will happen which he will propose that the commission can be implemented. So there's no such thing. On top of all that, there's a law that says all this, and we're going to transfer all that responsibility to local self-government. Interesting. In 12 years, the government with hundreds of employees has not done one commission, zero commissions, and now local self-government with a few employees will solve everything in a few years. You know, the same argument that it would be easier to implement it at the level of local self-government you used for the Agricultural Land Act when you said the law would be implemented, it would be easier to assign land when it was at the level of local self-government. Your results were more devastating than when it was at the state level. And whatever it is that shows you that this argument is simply not correct, it's not accurate, it's not correct, you're continuing with the same topic. That what I saw was going to be a couple of people employed in the ministry because of this, so I guess there's still the effect of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97313	Mr. Bull, part two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97314	This is probably what interested people are looking at, so this is how I greet them. Those distinguished ministers who called me this morning, for example. in the field of Sinai that planted the seed is determined, but it is dry, now they must water. Now, you give the precedent right now, we're talking actual, when we talk about self-sufficiency, when we talk about the crisis, people have invested, sown, but we have drain canals that can also water. You know what the Croatian waters did? They closed that these farmers couldn't water their crops, so this way I invite them to open the valves in Sinjsko field and that farmers in Sinjsko field can water from the canals of their seed because it's dry, it's a huge drought and there was a wind so much that we have a lot of problems because the promises we've heard, this law is so meaningful that local self-government literally does everything. And since 2009 when it was adopted during HDZ that it will solve the membership by 2021 until 2015, what counterpart Petrov said where he brought Jakovina back to the SDP government and now you are a 5-year minister. And now they'd triangulate local leaders with great capacity to solve everything. And the minister is laughing. Five years. You're laughing too, aren't you? Would you like to commend the Minister for what she's done so far? Would you like to commend? So you've heard that only Tito says that he's done that commission that you want to have right now. So he's been through it, and I don't know, I'm not getting into it. As it is, I don't know how Slavonia was solved. How'd it go? And I'd like to ask the minister and you one question...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97315	Excuse me, Mr. Bull, stop the time, this chronometer moment. When Mr. Bull asks a question, it's a rhetorical question. You don't answer a question like that, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97316	Thank you very much for your notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97317	And that's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97318	The Rules of Procedure is that they communicate and of course that...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97319	No, but not from the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97320	Well, I can do whatever it takes for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97321	Come on, come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97322	I can... Because they will only praise the ministry and the minister who has absolutely done absolutely nothing in the last five years on this matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that a few more months, in the 7th month, the party will be able to buy agricultural land. So I'd be asking myself a question maybe it's better if we hadn't partly done that commission because it would have gone a long time ago for small money who knows what lobbies. One lobby is set to go to the Russians. That's very signifying. So maybe we're lucky you didn't spend everything you had in mind. And I ask you once again why you don't give the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land as a strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia, and we see how significant it is. The ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal and natural persons because if Orban is also supposed to be Hungary in the EU, he banned buying to Croatian legal and physical persons, which is why we are not equal, which is why we are not equal in these relations. Now the Minister will say no, the first ransom will be at the state, as the state must go first ransom. I know what he's going to say, there won't be a first buyout of the state then how it got into the Russian hands that he owned Agrokor. Or I don't know what other land. 700,000 hectares of the minister's unprocessed agricultural land, 700,000. To make you the Minister of Agriculture now, suggest to Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is more literally controlled by the war in Ukraine, instead of making a decision on how or measures as farmers to provide free fertilisers, how to activate tractors, technically operational means to plant everything, give measures. Here I am as mayor ready to co-finance it, make a legal framework and measures, and we'll model everything. We're going to plant potatoes, not that we're not going to have any of them in the Cooper's stock reserves, and if there's a drought like this, and we're not going to have anything like this because you literally threw our OPGs with imported lobbys because you literally look half of it in Plitvice Lakes is sold in touristic lakes, in restaurants it's sold as an offer from Egypt, and you didn't buy any of our OPGs. The images of the Egyptian kumpir. This is the truth I'm saying. This is true. I'm behind this. So at this point in time, we're having a stroke, and you've put everything into the units of local self-government, like you left us, mainly in my Sinj, huge capacities, the previous power that was above me. You know the capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97323	Thank you, thank you very much. It is now Mrs. Marija Vuckovic's turn on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97324	... Thank you for your word. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] First of all, it's incorrect for this law to transfer everything to local self-government units. On the contrary, unlike the existing law, the Ministry of Agriculture is taking on these very large duties where it is worth launching a commission, and local self-government units can't or won't. Here, let's keep on, it's completely wrong thesis and incorrect. We reduce their obligations, reduce them, and give ourselves more into it together. And you all know we'll do it. It is incorrect that the law is inconclusive, the best experts in Croatia worked on the law, the law worked quickly, efficiently and the law foresees the use of all legal institutes in Croatia and their mutual communication and will therefore be so quickly enforceable as opposed to all previous ones. It is incorrect that in Croatia there are 700,000, 700,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. It's one hell of a nebulosis, and I don't have any nicer words. Mr. Bull, I want to tell you about the problem of the Sinj field, I will repeat what I told you at our meetings. As far as irrigation is concerned, please ensure by the local self-government unit 70% of the interest of the users because we cannot waste taxpayers' money, that is a rule that applies to everything, so it should apply to Sinj and the local self-government unit should work on it. As far as the circle is concerned, you haven't answered our call that we made in the 10th month, I'm sorry if I'm wrong. But we'll also do everything we can to keep doing. As far as the fertilisers are concerned, we're, we're doing a 200 million kuna aid program as an emergency reaction. There is no 2 months that we have paid 200 million kuna for Croatian cattlemen, and we have not increased the debt, but we have made a redistribution in the state budget and with other programmes that we are now doing it is half a billion kuna for Croatian farmers, and of course we cannot do everything in these circumstances so that no one can feel the consequences, but we have pretty solid evidence that no one has worked more or faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97325	Thank you, no, you don't have the replicas of Madam Minister, yes, if you'd like to respond. Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97326	Dear Minister, of course you've transferred everything to local self-government and you're washing the pill hands of your county leaders who are pressuring you and you can't even mention them anymore. For irrigation was the county's obligation, and the county absolutely did nothing, exactly neither in Sinjsko Polje, nor you as mayor in Neretva County. What about Konavoski Polje, as far as you're concerned, you've sent a call of interest to this law of interest to bury and wash your pill hands to leave the local leaders without solving property relations. Where's your Justice Minister here to say how he's going to solve property relations? So what would we be, the ones who will come and speak and cut down and we will nationalize it. Where are your funds secured? So you're just making a commitment to the local leaders so that all the trouble and neglect of import lobbys that worked in the interest of import lobbys and those who went to Ireland can't show interest in Sinj. That you've wasted... [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] import lobbys. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97327	- Mrs. Crescent. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97328	We import the most food products in Europe in history, in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97329	Mr. Bull, Mr. Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97330	Slavonia, the evicted village and the peasant has been robbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97331	First warning, warning, one warning to Mr. Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97332	Let's go in turn, when we have nothing smarter and more professional then we will talk about import lobbys or the gravediggers of Croatia... Sinjsko Polje, help to reach the user, report to public calls, has Sinj capacity administrative for this, as well as many others. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Konavosko Polje, great that you mentioned it, you can contact the Commissioner who has already taken action on an idea solution that has responded to our public call and that this field will be collated, of course not without JLS. As for the Neretva Valley, I'll remember when it was done first, when it was originally working on a major national irrigation project that was out there somewhere in 2013-'14. When I was a parishioner, as you said, there was a problem, so Metkovic pointed out or not, but I pointed out, they reacted six months later that the waterway to Metkovic might close, that the project needed to be changed, so if I did my job Volunteering at the study [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] which is later recognised and now we have all six building permits and that will be settled. [[Intruder: Ma'am, time, time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97333	- Mrs. Crescent. Minister, I can't give you a warning, I can't give you a warning if it's not for the Rules of Procedure, I can tell you the time is up. Mr. Bully asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure if I understood correctly, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97334	Yeah, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The minister demeans parliamentary deputies by implying something that they had to do that the ministry has to do. Thousands of your employees have only worked in the interest of import lobbys and Monsanto large companies. Here's the courage to give the Glyphosate Act, to ban it, which Austria has done other countries, not to poison our children, our people, our environment, our birds, you shouldn't. The law prohibiting the sale of agricultural land...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97335	/Intruder: Time, time, time, time, time, there was a replica, a reminder/
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97336	...and Hungary is in the EU, you can't do that if you're sponsors of Monsanto and the team.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97337	And time, time, well, well, you stopped in time. There are two replicas, Mr. Bull, two warnings, sorry, sorry, sorry. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97338	He's been injured. 238 We didn't react when you warned us, but we were the first to react, and then you started doing something about it after our reaction, so you don't deceive the public. [[Intruder: A breach of the Rules of Procedure]] That's exactly what we warned the most about and the only ones from the town of Metkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97339	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97340	That's not true. I personally called Mr. Petrov six months before you reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97341	No, no, no, ma'am. The Minister is not the answer, ma'am. You can't answer the Minister's question. Ms. Secretary, you can't answer because it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't, don't make me angry with you now, too, don't. This Mr. Grmoya has a warning, of course, because it's a replica, and he agrees I don't. Mr. Bulj has a third injury to the Rules of Procedure if he wants to, if he wants to, if he wants nothing... No, no, you've already got two... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Oh, yeah, you've already got two. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97342	And if so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97343	If that's the case, then... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97344	...as the minister says... I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure's injury. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97345	Then you give up, okay, thanks, smart. This lady. It's a Vucillović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, back to Slavonia, you've gone there a little too much where they have extra Mandarin, now it's an embargo, so they don't have anywhere else to go with them, but the fact is that Croatia has over 500 JLS. It's a little illogical because we know that parcels often don't respect that JLS border now. It might be more logical if there was a little more involved in the regional and regional levels, or county levels. That would make more sense to me. All right, you found it to bridge with the ministry, but the county's here all of a sudden like it doesn't exist. It would be much more logical to work together and plan at the county level , not the municipalities and cities. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97347	The answer to Mrs. Crescent's question. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97348	Any proposal by parliamentarians relating to this law will, of course, be seriously considered, if it can be better, it will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97349	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97350	Thank you. Dear Minister, let's imagine that this is how you imagined and really started to successfully implement the law and at the local level, how you would prevent those people who, of course, see their opportunity and if they show themselves extremely skilled and if they start and start to carry out that commission, this is how you're going to prevent at the end of what a lot of people are now doubting that this might be consistent with the entry or the removal of the land sale ban, whether it will actually enable these people to start selling or you'll have the same provision that you have in the Agricultural Land Act. to prevent it [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97351	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97352	The agricultural land law, if adopted of course in the form proposed, simply refers to all agricultural land. The Law on COMMACATION prevents further land from being re-scheduled for 99 years. As far as sales are concerned, so here we've heard, don't blame me so much now that I can't even understand that this can be said here. For example, Russian owners and land to be sold to them, which is state-owned land that is leased and which is not intended for sale and which cannot be sold and cannot be sold at all. They're such misunderstandings. We don't need to be afraid of it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97353	Thank you. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97354	Dear Madam Minister and I would be nervous if I were you for the reason that you lost 2 and a half Peljega Bridge on unprocessed, unprocessable agricultural land, which is 10 Peljega bridges during one term. I'd be nervous too today. That's 10 Peles Bridges. You may have built one, but you lost 10 for the reason that unprocessing agricultural land is somewhere around 500,000 football fields. That's what the fact is. And I'd be nervous if I were you. And secondly, I wouldn't laugh no, and the other thing about the commission means from 2009 to 2021 strategy, you haven't circled anything. In 2015, however, nothing has been circled, and for the past few years you have been the minister of the resolution ministry, nothing has been circled. So it wouldn't be funny to me at all, and I'd be nervous if I were you because of this kind of incompetence and unhappiness. We lose in one term of 10 Peles Bridges. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Troscott.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97355	Don't, Mr. Troscott, don't make me nervous right now. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97356	I'm not nervous to point out to you when I'm telling the truth that I can, of course, always prove to agents who don't tell the truth, and they're nervous, not me, and they're not used to being told the truth, so I'm going to get used to them. As for the 500,000 football field data just before we heard 700,000 acres which is incorrect, incorrect and incorrect, I can't comment on this because at this point I don't know how many hectares it is, so I'm going to comment on it if I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97357	Well, there's no reason for anyone to be nervous, there's nothing personal about it, as far as I can tell. Mr. Ivanovic. Who, who, the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Oh, yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97358	It was supposed to be before the replica, but okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97359	I don't know when you should have, but let's hear it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97360	Dear Vice-President of Article 238, you should have responded to these words of Mr. Honorable Representative Troscott where he tells the minister not to, he implies to her what she will do and what gestures she will have, and he has made it so untrue that I simply think that the Croatian public must remain appalled by what he was talking about, but you did not react, so here is just to increase your vigilance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97361	Thank you very much, with all due respect and the sympathy I have for you, I don't agree with you, so you get a warning because it was, because it was a pure replica and it was to me. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić, now a real replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97362	Dear Minister, you have not previously answered the question of what local self-governments have shown, or have applied for a public call, and I ask you to answer at least which regions are represented in the majority. And if there's a list somewhere where you can see which units are exactly listed. You also said that the regional units of self-government did not answer that public call, so they are not included in the legislation. However, this means that they will not be able to come forward in the future because they are left out as communicators, so we think they should certainly be included in this bill in order to possibly report for some future public calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97363	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97364	Maybe I didn't say it right. They're not the communicators yet. We had a public call for a statement of interest according to our obligations through the National Resilience and Correction Programme and I said 23 units of local self-government came forward. As for the former planned pilot areas as far as I know on the Internet, there was a particular document on the Internet that spoke about these areas and documents. They come as I say are all from different counties and different parts of Croatia. They include Istria and Istria and the continent and Dalmatia and 4 of them, 5 were on our inquiry at the end of 2019 when I became a minister, I am not a 5-year minister, when I became a minister we sent an inquiry about the statement of interest. 4 said they were interested, we had a few meetings, that statement didn't come true and we will, of course, allow others to continue to report, but we will start from what professional services now have on the basis of a public call based on a statement of interest in order to... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97365	Thank you. Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97366	Thank you very much, Vice President. In this debate, it was incorrectly said that several agricultural land distribution agencies had placed state agricultural land in office from local self-government units. Absolutely incorrect information. Therefore, I ask that this Croatian Parliament also report how many units of local self-government have opened the tender for both lease and sale compared to the period 2011-2015. As far as rounding and composing have been carried out, we have a case in Croatia where geodetic elaborates and rounded state agricultural land have been carried out. The case of the city of Novska. As regards the borders of so-called Catastrian municipalities and units of local self-government, the State Geodetic Administration is now implementing a national plan where the borders of the Catastrian municipalities will be aligned with the borders of the units, units of local self-government because we have such problems everywhere in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time, thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97367	Before the Minister's reply, he would like to warn the representatives of the Most if there were five and there could be four. Here you go, Madam Minister. Here, here's your answer. No answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97368	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I really have to react to a series of these untrue things that have been brought out here by my colleagues, because in order not to remain so I really want to talk about facts, and here in the area of Baranja, in the area of the municipality of Draž, the cadastrian municipality of Topolia in the last few years over 800 ha of the agricultural surfaces of the new cadastrian dimensions have been accumulated. And right through the programmes available to agricultural state land that units of local self-government were obliged to make and enable the sale and lease of agricultural particles. It was also possible that those units that did so neatly could round up particles by creating technological units, thus meeting farmers, allow them to improve their soil processing. That's what some units did. Now on these surfaces is working exactly the irrigation system worth it. 25 million kuna [[Thank you. Time.]] Why isn't it done in Sinjo? I don't know. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97369	It is a rounding through the Law on Agricultural Land which is in force through the possibility of replacement through other mechanisms that exist. And this is a contribution in one systematic way and the state and we intend to implement it. This will also be a guideline, bigger, stronger and faster contribution to the rounding of agricultural land. As far as statistics are concerned, it is indeed quite incorrect that, at the time of the former Agricultural Land Agency, more or more has been agreed, that is, put into office. In particular, this thesis of putting into office is incorrect, because I am now facing the fact that we have carried out control of a lot of what little was given in the competition at the time was not handled in accordance with the economic programme and now we have problems with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97370	Thank you. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97371	Thank you. Here's a respected minister, so you claim it was a roundup and it's not exactly what the MOST representatives say, we could hear Mr. Shashin and Piletic now. Can you tell us in percentage, then, here's the exact area, how much of what's planned is rounded up. What percentage is that? I suppose you should know that as a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97372	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97373	I didn't say it was a piece of work. I said it was about individual circles, and this is a systematic contribution from the state to this law. The fact is that this was the Ministry of Agriculture running through the Ministry of Agriculture and the fact is that this was the European Commission's assessment of it with an excellent, excellent proposal and excellent activity and supported it and considers it to be a real reform activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97374	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97375	I think it would be a good idea to call some kind of break, since Article 238, that we have different information coming from the minister and Mr. Pilletic and Shashin, so that they can agree and see where we are and what we are. Because obviously there's a discrepancy and ignorance of matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97376	Thank you. It was a replica, a warning. Mr. Grmoya I swear to you I didn't want to give you a warning because I thought you'd say that what was said was not said because it was said by mistake. Then I wouldn't give you a warning, but now I have to give you a warning because you had a replica. Mrs. Jelkovac, the breach of the Rules of Procedure as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97377	A fellow Grmo was injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because it behaves in a way that it should not behave here in the Croatian Parliament. It makes it clear that the minister and MPs are the opposite thesis, which is not true. You better listen or read the subject, because you don't understand. Our deputies were talking about individual rounding, and the minister is talking about a law that's on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97378	Thank you very much. But it was a replica, and you know it yourself, so there goes a reminder by the power of the Rules of Procedure. Also Mr. Chicken Business, but you see we've already given notice. Is that right? I don't know why you're moving on, but okay. You too. Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97379	I don't know, Vice President, do I have a warning, but if I do, then A fellow Grmo was injured by Article 238. [[No, no, no, no, you don't have a warning. But I'm saying he's been warned already by Mr. Thunderbolt. You refer to him. Is that right?]] So it's not a replica, so it's saying that we're here presenting conflicting data which is incorrect and that we're not getting along, so it's insulting. I did not say that we had implemented the commission, but that, in accordance with geodetics, we had spent the rounding of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is a completely different procedure from the comcommissioning process and is the result of the completion of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97380	Time, time. Of course it was a replica. Mr. Bolt got a warning, and then I have to give you a warning. Mr. Shashin, do you still have a need?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97381	Yeah. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. Mr. Grmoya deceives the public, indeed, because we were talking about the facts, the facts. So you can check it anywhere these 800 ha is really grouped and really there is a system of irrigation 25 million kuna values on these surfaces and other surfaces currently owned by the Whites that work there too. Therefore, why you in the sonic field, you obviously remember the sonic field only here in the Parliament. I don't know when you were last there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97382	It was a replica. There's a note for the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Daus has, fortunately, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97383	Thank you very much. Yeah, let's go back to the ones who are doing this and they're farmers. Of course, I prefer the ones in Istria, so I have this situation I'd like to hear a little bit from the minister. In Istria, it will be extremely difficult to assess the value of a particular particle compared to the other one especially if the latter is not close to the first. On the other hand, we have already experienced unpleasant experiences with the price of state agricultural land, or squares much poorer land that is more expensive than a square of some richer in the flat-rate part of Croatia. And also the tax that will be on these particles that are in the process of the whole process, given that it is estimated at some values per table which do not necessarily have to be both the right value and the price itself is more expensive in terms of the geographical area, and this is about agricultural land and the aim is to help farmers themselves to make it as mild as possible on the one hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97384	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97385	Well, I can't answer differently at this point than that the basis for the prices is this country's system and regulations, the Tax Administration, e-Reals, the estimates I have to look at individually at this moment cannot answer differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97386	Thank you. Mr. Miletić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97387	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Mr. Radin. Your Honor, Minister. Two questions, so can you make it clear to the Croatian public, if I understand the materials correctly is foreseen from the budget 150 million kuna by '24, so please comment on that. Is that enough money for this whole story of ours? And secondly, once and for all, to break off the story of unprocessed land, this data, that data. Can you publicly tell the Croatian public as a minister for five years if I'm not mistaken and you have long experience, so you have in agriculture in different sectors, so exactly how many meters do we have unprocessed land in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97388	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97389	As far as the exact figures are concerned, they are not nearly equal to 700,000 hectares, they can say that an estimated exact estimate for the state agricultural land says that we have 460,000 hectares, that the distribution programme is worth around 300,000 hectares, 290 and that, on some basis, it was legally under the temporary contract, the long-term lease of concessions or the lease benefits approximately 250,000 hectares, and we of course predict changes in order to put all these projected 460s into operation and so that the Institute of Temporary Contracts would be fully omitted and allow people long-term leases. As regards the exact figures for private land The revision of the forest economic base is ongoing [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] The construction is under way... [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]] And we'll do it when we know exactly what to publish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97390	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97391	Your Honors Minister. I can argue, but it's not a point in bickering, it's a request that you get really serious about this problem. Don't be mad, you've had five years of zero commissions done. You don't guarantee anything will get better because you say you're in good communication. I'm not interested in good communication, I'm interested in a clear, concrete way of resolving the property relations that will come to us here, the minister exposure through a clear legal framework on how the commission will be able to implement. And I must warn you that you are not telling the truth, you as a ministry ordered by Oicon to give you information about how unprocessed agricultural land is, they have exposed you and inside stands 700,000 hectares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97392	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97393	As far as I'm concerned, I didn't order that kind of study and I'm not a minister for five years, I've been a minister for two and a half years, and it's true that I've worked on different topics, that it's a valuable experience, and I haven't worked on land at all. I worked on finance, public procurement, the Fisheries Fund, and for some time a Rural Development program. So I've never dealt with this subject before. I've been working on this subject as well as anyone else, I've been doing everything I've said when I took office is done by the strategy, from what we should have started with digitization, from the negotiation and consumption of the new fund, from the development of the national strategic plan, and as you can see, we've caught what we weren't at that point in the program. I agree you don't need to fight, it just shouldn't be that kind of answer when I tell the truth. We don't have to fight at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97394	Thank you. It was a violation of Mr. Petrov's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97395	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. In spite of the warning, when you're telling the truth, then either you're telling the truth, I'd ask you to do it. Otherwise, I ask you to write to me in writing that you have never met and that you never knew about Oicon's company. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97396	No, no, you can't answer that was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course he's going after the Rules of Procedure's warning. I don't go into content and I don't get into the measure of things, but the warning has to go because it was a replica. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak on behalf of the HDZ club, this SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97397	I'd better get back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97398	Okay, but it wouldn't be funny if he spoke on behalf of the HDZ, but he speaks on behalf of the SDP because he's a member of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97399	Thank you. As for any law that comes from the non-ambitious workshop of Minister Vukkovic, we must explain to the public the context or narrative of the adoption of this law. [[Attack Radin: Member, member.]] We have no doubt that the Minister will say that the efforts her team is making on a high scale in carrying out agricultural development tasks, but let's start from the fact that we have several times today that we have a valid Law on Cooperation adopted in 2015, and since then I haven't had a single commencement procedure under this law. Last year and how we had the opportunity to hear both the minister and the prime minister on several occasions said it was necessary to either pass a new law or to amend the existing one. We agree that it is necessary to harmonise it because since the last adoption of the Agricultural Land Act 2018. it has not been in conformity with the regulation and we have already had in force in the law that the commission is carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency which was abolished before 2018. So inconsistencies make the problem a problem is that they're four years late, and seven years are actually from a valid law. Many EU Member States are indeed carrying out a co-communication in continuity and are aware that this is a priority for solving agricultural production, for improving, for including additional values. Without that, there is no improvement in agricultural production and an increase in additional value, and it is incomprehensible that only now we have recognized the Minister that she has only now recognised the importance of cohesion. As a result, no EU funds have been used for this purpose. Namely, in the Rural Development Programme between 2014 and 2020. in the ‘Agricultural Land Commission’ operation, funding is planned for support in which the value of the support amounted to up to 100% of the eligible costs. Of course, funds have not been used in that part and we do not have, because we have not and we do not still have a harmonised legislative framework and 0% of the funds have been used. Now we have a situation that the Ministry of Agriculture is in October 2021. the public call to the JLS and the units of the regional and regional self-government to show interest in participating in the implementation of the NPOO from 2021 to 2026, in particular on the improvement of the system for the restructuring of agricultural land and commercialisation. In order to participate in a public call, the applicant's obligation to draw up a simple idea solution to the commission is prescribed. The level and amount of funding states that the implementation of the commission is co-financed by EU funds of 80% while co-financing by applicants is 20%. Therefore, what could have been financed in a 100% amount is now required for applicants or local self-government to co-finance costs up to 20%. At the ministry's public call, we've had our chance and heard that 23 JLS appeared, which will cover 46,600 hectares of agricultural land. We warned of the urgency of passing this law or amending the existing law, and the ministry was planning to bring this law to an end in 2022, and we now have a debate in the first reading in March. We also need to mention a poor period of public consultation that we have not talked about today and the length of the duration, which lasted 15 days from the end of December until the beginning of January, although public consultation generally takes up to 30 days, and it certainly did not contribute to a quality process and the reduced consultation should certainly be avoided if important quality feedback from the interested public. As far as the bill is concerned, we must warn of several illogicalities. We believe that. 6. in which the terms are defined, they should become art. 2. Because the definition is usually defined behind the subject and the objective of the regulation. There is also a missing article relating to the protection of soil, water, environment and nature because the current provisions only state the protection of landscapes as we consider insufficient. On the subject of the comcommissioning programme, we propose the adoption of two programmes, a multi-annual programme to bring HS, and an annual programme by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture would prepare an annual programme on the basis of a public call made and a decision on areas eligible for the implementation of the delegation. There is also a confusion over a public call to be published under the proposed provisions after a proposal for an idea solution has been drawn up. What does this mean, that JLS is making a proposal for their cost, and then after the publication of a public call, the Ministry decides which proposals of the idea solution will be co-financed by their production, and what about those JLS whose proposals will not be accepted and have actually spent money in vain? It is our suggestion that the whole process be conducted in a different way. The process should take place and begin, in fact, by making a public call, by making a simple idea solution with the agreement of most landowners to make the proposal, not by agreeing to carry out the commission. The administrative processing of applications should then be carried out and the Commission shall publish a decision on areas eligible for participation in the programme on the Ministry's website. This decision would be the basis for the development of the annual programme. If the agricultural land is intended for the commission, the representative body of JLS or the City of Zagreb would make a decision on the making of the proposal and from that moment on become the bearers of the commission. As for taking over the work of the holder of the commission by the ministry, if that means the holder of the commission has not carried out the necessary actions and the timely launch and implementation of the commission procedure, it is disputed in fact to appoint a committee with an assembly by means of a free assessment of the ministry, which would actually mean that the minister here can work and actually appoint the commission as he wills and who she wants to put into it. It should be clarified that JLS or the City of Zagreb is being sent into a proposal for an idea solution after its development, according to the Ministry of Justice and the State Geodetic Administration. Following the adoption of the proposal's opinion, the proposal can be supplemented if necessary and sent to the ministry for consent. Now the question arises who gives the ministry consent if he is the holder of the commission? This was resolved when there was an Agency for Agricultural Land that was abolished, and we believe that the ministry should be more clearly defined. In our country, there is generally high mistrust in the work of the institution and citizens are very untrustworthy as regards transparency in the work of different committees, and we find it unacceptable indeed that the ministry takes over and takes over the affairs of the commission to appoint how it wishes or appoints members at its will. We believe that the very process of carrying out the commission is a very complex and long-term, long-term weight of the whole business and an unregulated land book, i.e. land books and property relations, which will surely make it difficult for the whole process where the data are unavailable and related to the residence or residence of interested owners. There is also a concern in the provisions relating to the composition of committees that a number of local self-government units will not have enough personnel, and we believe that regional self-government units should certainly be allowed to be the bearers of the commission in order to perhaps provide insufficient resources for staff. As far as the commission's work is concerned, we'll see how it works. We wouldn't be surprised if in a year or two we had this very good one, as the minister says in front of us, but in a change where it will be repaired and determined that certain things don't go well during and that there's a lot to be repaired because we're used to it, here's especially given the availability of agricultural land. Finally, we are concerned that a significant part of the NPOO funds will not be used. The plan for the production of sub-legislative acts is unknown and the end of the 250 million kuna investment is forecast until the first quarter of 2026. when about 18,000 hectares of land should be massaged, and the law is only in the first reading. It is also not clear whether activities in the implementation of the commission will continue during the programming period 2023-2027 or will only be financed from the NPOO. Namely, the public is not familiar with the content of the strategic plan in the framework of the common agricultural policy as well as the fact that it is planned [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Continuing the implementation of the cooperation. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97400	Thank you very much, thank you, Mrs Vlasic Iljkic. And now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Mrs. Anya Shimprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97401	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, almost seven years after the current law came into force, a whole new Law on agricultural land was found before us. Regardless of the views of individuals, this is actually a good way to contribute to this story and the fact that the current law has not served its purpose to the least, because no concrete rounding process or grouping of agricultural land by it has been completed, in fact, most of it here we have heard that there have been examples of rounding up agricultural land, according to some information, the last commission was carried out in the 1980s. For this very reason, we must have a completely new approach, a radical change, and it is only possible by passing a new law. The current structure of agricultural land indicates the necessity of carrying out a commission. In Croatia, about 160,000 agricultural holdings have been registered with an average of 7.2 hectares of agricultural land on 8.6 plots of an average size of 0.8 hectares per plot. This structure testifies to the great fragmentation of parcels which significantly increases costs, but also the time needed to process them. Unfortunately, the parcels that are being processed are mostly depreciated, property legal relations complex, so the whole process of co-composition cannot go smoothly at this time. Without rounding, there is no advanced agricultural production, and the rounding would also be practical and pragmatic because large parcels are always lower costs precisely because of the machinery because the large mechanism with a large working procedure reduces the total cost of production of each culture. The rounded and arranged PAG particles guarantee time and money savings. Imagine the cost of a farmer who travels 20 km to one of his plots, and often farmers who process more agricultural land have several dozen small plots. The commission would also place raw agricultural land in operation, which is not small, the agricultural infrastructure would also be arranged, and would ensure economic and modern food production in the country. These are just some of the reasons why it is good that some municipalities are systematically prepared with catastrian measurements as a basis for future cohesion. A new attempt to compete must lead to an increase in agricultural production, create greater added value in this production, put into operation abandoned agricultural land, but also better conditions for the processing of the land by regulating roads and municipal networks. We must also not ignore that the implementation of systematic co-operation should result in an increase in the value of agricultural land because it is currently among the lowest in the EU countries due to the fragmentation and poor infrastructure of agricultural land prices. All of this should ultimately affect the development and improvement of our rural areas. However, I am afraid that in the process of rounding up the agricultural land that is before us could unfortunately be problems, primarily because of the property relations already mentioned. That's the problem we talked about here several times, primarily when we were discussing cadastrian measurements. Problematic property relations will definitely slow down the whole process because, for example, only one data is listed in the cataster, in land books or garners. It is also common that half a hectares of land have more co-owners than most unfortunately have passed away or otherwise unreachable. It is also possible that one part of the owner is not engaged in agriculture, which is why their interest in the comcommissioning process is almost nothing. I think the resistance is greatest because people are afraid that they will not get the same quality and class of the country or that they will be in a smaller plot why I hope it will not happen primarily because of the defined principles of equal value and the principles of land use and position. The key to success in simplifying the process through reduced ones is administrations and education of people. The country is up to 2026. EUR 263 million, i.e. EUR 313 million, for the implementation of the commission from the NPOO. A public invitation has also been made for the award of that money, to which 23 JLS have sent their applications which have an interest in such proceedings. Here we rightly wonder why the other 532 JLS did not show interest. I believe that this makes it a good provision that provides that where there are significant areas of agricultural land that are badly exploited, and local self-government has not taken the necessary steps of an initiative to carry out the commission can be launched by the competent ministry. It is not worse to consider the possibility of reducing the percentage of the proposed article. 20th century 6th of the bill relating to the consent of the owner of the land to launch the comcommissioning procedure. It is also an Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 20. Rules should be laid down for the identification of legal persons as this is not currently done, and justified reasons why the owner of the land is not able to participate in a meeting of landowners including the possibility of participating representatives of the owners. The pandemic taught us how to hold a good part of the remote meetings, so perhaps we should consider the possibility of holding such meetings at a distance. The bill definitely looks like a huge positive step that must not lead to a kind of deja-vu. We are all in the best interest of the law being implemented in practice and therefore we all need to get stuck in its implementation. The SDSS advocates' club will support the proposal for a law on agricultural land membership in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97402	Thank you, ma'am. Chimpraga. It is now up to Mr. Kresso Beljak to represent the positions of the Club of Representatives of HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. I listen to the minister, I listen to her associates, I listen to all of you and I don't know if he'd laugh or cry. There is one country, one area, one country, one stone, beautiful, God's day, on which one people or nations live 1000 years old, one country, one stone, pastures which the same people, regardless of their religion, regardless of their origin, common, common language, shared culture, soaks with their sweat very often through these 1,000, frames I speak, for years it drowns with its blood, and all these or almost all those 1,000. He starves ladies and gentlemen, starves, starves. Back in the 1930s, there were famines in Croatia, and 95% of our ancestors, your ancestors were just those cattlemen who fed the cattle to other people's interests, not their own, because they were hungry, who worked and soaked in the sweat of that country that you are now talking about other people's interests, and not their own because they were hungry, for the interests of foreign owners, for the interests of people who operated from Vienna, from Meltek, from Budapest, from the Vatican if you want a large part of it. The people were hungry, hungry, and worked from dawn to dawn to survive, and most of them were taken by foreigners or by foreign servants in terms of our nobles, Croatian nobility of those ladies and gentlemen whom there were 1% who enjoyed and had everything until practically 70 years ago. The first idea about regulation, the fair regulation of land rights in the Republic of Croatia came from HSS, from Stjepan Radic, from Antun Radic, from a whole series of people who created the original Croatian political idea that people who farm their cattle should lead their cattle to their pastures and not starve to death. Who brought you Licane, your Bosnians, your Herzegovese, to Slavonia, who started doing this on systematic colonization and land division in Slavonia to Stjepan Radić and HSS in '20. and in the '30s. Last century? No one, they brought strangers, they brought strangers. Who took this idea in a rough way from Radic and in a rough way, but spent part or good part after '45.? The one everyone was against, and today we can remember him with grief because it is the only period where the Croatian man mostly lived well from his honest work and shed sweat on his land or on his stone. So what today? 30 g. We discuss how and what we ourselves will do, we are on our own, so that within a few months we can tear all of this together, any law we can bring, tear and throw into the trash because we will open up the space for all of this to be bought by foreigners or by those who already have, and that is the same caste 1% of servants or servants of those who may be not foreigners, but part of the ruling caste mainly of HDZ. So it is well known who holds the land in Slavonia, who is, who has thousands and hundreds of thousands of hectares in the lease, unworthy of political lines. It's very well known who did it, who made it possible and who's gonna benefit from it. Who created Agrokor? Who's boss of Agrokor today? Who's asking that at all? Or what forte's name is new. Are those Russians, Americans? Who's that? And when such a law is passed, and it is unprovoked, neither can the cities. I've been mayor for 12 years, big and serious. There's no easy way to enforce these laws. So it's not going to be carried out whatever happened, and what's going to be done when the space is opened that agricultural land is bought by strangers we'll go back to know where? In a time before Stjepan Radic, with only one important difference between us ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Croats and Croats, we are gone. No more farmers, no more cattlemen, no more peasants and no more Croatian villages. There will be some other people and this 30-year story will very, very soon end and write on screen game over, there once was a state here called Croatia and there was a people called Croatian. There's a saying for the end, it's about fire. They taught me that when I was a kid. Fire is a good servant and a bad master. And this applies to Croatians and Croatian citizens. We are good, excellent, perhaps even the best servants, and the worst masters in history are probably human civilizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97404	And now he's going to speak to Mr. Emil Daus in front of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we have before us the Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land and is necessary especially for the coastal Croatia because of small agricultural areas. But there are many obstacles in the way of his realization. Some of them have already heard through replicas and through the presentations of former colleagues and colleagues. I will try to point to several of them and as we can see from the position of the Istrian Democratic Assembly or farmers in Istria and the coast. In practice, implementation is difficult for reasons of the first unresolved property-legal relationship. You know, we're coming from what I said, and hundreds of years ago, migration was big from the Istria area, the coast, the island, Dalmatia. Gruntovnica is still in land books, which even some of them died a hundred years ago or 50, 70 years ago. They were then located in America, Australia, Canada, the countries of Europe. About the islands, yes, not to even talk about the situation. The second thing that appeared was quite present in Istria, I don't know how in the rest of Croatia's Adriatic coastal property. It has never been solved quite rightly, these are former landowners who, after World War II, have defined the citizenship of other states or there in '43. further to Istria. Unsolved possession, property is still on the late grandfather, on the late nonet even though his son has already given his son, so the grandson is already the owner of the particle, and the property is still being held on the late nonnet. Catastar can be delayed for seven, eight years compared to land books, i.e. the implementation of the ownership list, etc., properties in the catastro. Catastrian operatives are inconsistencies with a real state of play in the field. To get a real picture, I'm going to try an example of the practice of most of the land, for example in central Istria where I come from. Here, when I hear from my colleagues and colleagues that there's a half a hectare or a hectare a few owners, that's great for us. Oh, no? There can be one hectare of believe or not to be up to a hundred co-owners, or owners of one hectare, and then co-owners of each particle, etc. And how does that work out now given everything I've said before? How to combine land in this way, how to replace with the particles of these owners because it is often about some areas that were once very good, quality agricultural soil. Today, it's unfortunately the forest. We also note by reading the law that a large number of implementing committee experts will be needed, so I hope that we will have so many in all these small areas that is on the one hand, and where these small municipalities will not be able to implement it, if the Ministry implements whether they will reach some quality time to process all these procedures. And somehow you get the impression that is understandable to me, but it is not acceptable, of course, that it is somehow written law no longer on purpose, but simply so from practice for flat-rate Croatia, for large farmers and the biggest problem in practice is actually to go back to the beginning of the coastal Croatia because there is a very large fragmentation of these particles and there are many small agricultural producers and the relief are reasons and quality of the soil, etc. And what I said earlier in the reply to the minister in Istria will be an extremely difficult assessment of the value of a particular particle compared to another, especially if it is not immediately in its immediate vicinity. We already have unpleasant experiences with state agricultural land, that is, with the evaluation of the same area where one square of state agricultural land is in Istria, I repeat the state agricultural not something that is on the market where the square is more expensive than the one in Slavonia, where there is much more quality soil and soil quality. So one more moment, that's what I mentioned before, and the tax itself that will be paid during the very process of harmonising everything and transfer of ownership, etc. Which will be a lot more by the way things are now being paid than they should be. Because our goal is to actually help the Croatian farmer. And that's why I think when a law like this is done, or when it's moving into such a process, it should make it even simpler. And what is also important to ensure the preconditions for such a process, that means the resolved property-legal catastrian preconditions and when it comes to a reform of agrarians, and the commissions should be part of the reform of agriculture, then the reform must be complete and the system must be consistent when it is not only the Ministry of Agriculture but also the other ministries of other competent institutions. This is about a strategic state decision where everyone who is in the process should actually be incorporated and thus create a prerequisite that this law itself applies, in practice there is, there is a much easier way to actually reach the goal. Although the aim is to speed up procedures and put into function agricultural land which, in order to repeat the fragmentation of small areas is not in operation, this will be administratively still in practice, and we all know that we have so far had with these experiences, administratively it will be a very complex procedure, it will take a long time to try to reduce and the goal is to reduce the number of bodies in process from 17 to 11 which we certainly welcome, but we still believe that the administration will be proposed. Because I repeat how to solve the land exchange with some owner you don't even know is alive in some distant country if he's alive or his own, I don't know 30 descendants of co-owners on a 1,000-square-square plot, all scattered in the white world. Whether it should be particularly stressed, but I think it's important because in Istria it is, such parcels are long grown by vegetation, creating problems in the area especially for agricultural producers. After their neglect for the past few decades by owners or owners of their growth, today they have become areas that change the biodiversity of the whole area, areas where game corners, game that does great damage to crops and multi-annual crops. And there are many farmers who would tear it apart, it's close to their particles, but it's not theirs and it's not allowed, and the owners, if you know them at all, who are not obliged to keep such areas in culture with applicable laws. And with most of it it will be impossible to carry out the commission, replace the parcels or any procedure you should. Therefore, prior to the commission itself, basic preconditions need to be resolved. I repeat, first of all, property legal relations and cadastre, but also raise the ownership's responsibility in the importance of maintaining their parcels. So does this mean that some new act might also be brought into this home where it would force the owners to have their own parcels of agricultural land in culture or if they didn't give it to someone who wanted to process them? And in fact, we're coming to the absurd that, the last time we had a quality arrangement, we had a rural space for the period of Austro-Hungarian, and the catastran is even older in the period of that Careva Austria of 1920 has 200, 200 years, and then it's never done again, it's never how this is supposed to be done later. Finally, we welcome the Ministry's intention to resolve the problem, the fragmentation of agricultural land as much as possible, but this law will unfortunately not be enough to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97406	Thank you. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97407	The respected chairman, respected state secretary, co-workers and colleagues, therefore improving the village and agricultural production is a necessary process to preserve the rural space declared by the Republic of Croatia and all in favour. But what have we done so far? What is really the current state of the village and rural space? Are our possessions incarcerated? What's our legal code? How much unencumbered or abandoned land is there? How many true young farmers and how many nursing homes are there? Are we tracking agricultural advanced technologies? Are there quality educations and their results? Are our agricultural production at risk of droughts and floods, or have we reduced the damage to farmers through available irrigation and disposal projects? What really is the competitiveness of our farmers? All these are serious questions that we should be able to get answers from relevant institutions. The commission process is certainly a measure that would reduce or eliminate many of the problems mentioned above. Let's recapitulate the situation in this field, therefore, by 2015. From 1991 to 2008 there is no commission. While others work, we sleep. Countries such as Slovenia, Serbia, Macedonia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, Germany, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia are all working intensively on the comcommunication procedures and thus help boost their agriculture's competitiveness. In 2008, a special contract was concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the phase of the project of membership in the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the project was to support the national land circulation policy through the design and development of a legislative framework for land circulation. What are the results of the project? Trained officials, awareness of citizens, the basis for the Law on Agricultural Land, but there is no legal framework for cohesion. The legal framework proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2014, the law came into force on 20.5.2015, when most of us were convinced that we were finally moving from place after 24 years. The Agricultural Land Agency then established a base to be used for the implementation of the commission, it was based on the creation of a database on state, state-owned agricultural land. Other data that were then to be pooled are those, those that were held by the Agriculture and Rural Development Payment Agency. It should also be available and a record of the payment of leases and concessions planned through the FINE should be used. We should have known the status of every catastrian particle, its history and its future. The private agricultural land database should also be set up. The objectives of the commission were to round up cadastrian particles into larger and more regular, to establish and build agricultural roads, to build water structures for melliorization, to perform and other works to arrange land intended for agriculture, and then to settle property legal relations on land. The commission is an integrated process. It includes creating larger and more regular particles, i.e. possessions due to their more economical exploitation and creation of more favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production, increasing the competitiveness of farmers by creating more favourable conditions for production, the possibility of buying or selling land in the process of commercialisation, then improving the physical conditions of each parcel, aligning the land area and implementing measures to improve soil, improving rural environment, changing the purpose of land in the forest or marshland area, then building roads to meet landscapes, restoring water bodies, ensuring protected areas and creating basic conditions for irrigation, hence the main precondition for the development of project documentation of the irrigation system, as well as for their construction of the areas on which the work has been carried out, built and maintained a water melioration system and for water treatment with properly designed sites with properly-designed land and land-based infrastructures. Then we also have social aspects of cohesion, thus improving standards and living conditions, creating changes in the agricultural sector in rural areas through more efficient use of rural space after balancing the interests of agriculture, landscapes and the environment, recreation and transport, creating a transparent real estate market, making new catasters and land books, providing ownership and ownership, creating new spatial data, etc., etc. Despite good wishes, though, reality is different in Croatia. The application of the law mentioned in practice has shown that there are obstacles that slow down agricultural land. On the basis of the procedure laid down so far for the accumulation of agricultural land, no procedure has been carried out which affects the efficiency of the use of agricultural land in view of the fragmentation and the large number of small-scale land particles. In practice, the law could not adequately achieve the objective and purpose of the land of agriculture, which is why progress in agricultural production cannot be expected. During the application of the law, it was observed that the prescribed process of land-building would need to be simplified, that it would be necessary to make it clearer, clearer and more concrete for the decision-making bodies themselves, then to make more effective control of the implementation of the process, as well as to regulate the financing and availability of the funds necessary for the dissemination, the long-term nature of the procedure, complex decision-making mechanisms, the different time limits of the procedures of a number of entities participating in the process itself are just some of the elements affecting ineffectiveness, and the achievement of the objectives and the purpose of the agricultural land-composition. The proposed law prevents the Ministry of Agriculture from making an appeal again. For example, I am talking about Art. 9, during the commissioning process, and if necessary for the purpose of the commissioning, it can be determined to move or collapse a simple building of a residential or commercial building with the aim of moving or destroying an existing simple building or building carried out in accordance with a rule governing the determination of simple and other buildings and works or decommissioning the owner's fees. However, the determination of the amount of compensation referred to in Article 1 of this Article will be carried out by a permanent judicial expert for the assessment of real estate or by a judicial assessor. Where, in accordance with Article 2(2) of this Article, a permanent court expert or judicial assessor finds that it is infertile or out of date for its maintenance has more costs than it is worth by its decision in Article 3(3) of this Article, it shall be determined that no compensation shall be paid for that plant with a warrant for its removal, which shall be effected by the owner within the time limit set out in the order and for its costs. Against the decision of St. 3. of this article, therefore, which I have read, the appeal is not allowed, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. I think we all know how complicated, long-term and expensive administrative disputes are. In other words, in the commission process proposed by this proposal, you can crash a legal object, remove your plantations, and you must not complain. I hold that these and similar provisions are once again our farmer is a second-class citizen. We are just hoping that this legislative framework will contribute to the creation of added value in agricultural production as a result of the regulation of agricultural land, a more efficient process of cohesion, will reduce the number of bodies participating in the process, we hope also to reduce the number of tools on the basis of which it is carried out, we hope that the introduction of the information system in the process of cohesion in view of the nature of the process that lasts for many years. All of this will not be to the detriment of our farmers, we hope most, which is less and less every day and after such rigorous proposals rightly, we can ask ourselves who will be our farmers tomorrow and produce our food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97408	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash, will represent the views of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97409	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us in the first reading of the Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land. As the Proposer initially said, there is an existing law that is a little less than 7 years later. it has been shown that there are obstacles that slow down agricultural land accumulation and that no action has been carried out on the basis of the land use efficiency of agricultural land so far. I'd like to start with a few important elements and a few important things in this debate. The first thing is, are we really advocating the land of agriculture? Is that really what we're going to do? What's our goal? Because if we're really in favour, if we're really going to do it, and what's our goal, then I'd love to, and I'm going to have it debated, so that for a second reading, the proposer would do it in the light of this law, then there would have to be a comparison of two hodograms. A hodogram as to how in accordance with the 2015 law, it looks like a process of co-composition, which is done, how many commissions, how many bodies, how many days for something that will be proposed by this law. So, I'm usually technical, thinking in the pictures not to say in the homes, and if he decides after seven years, my people in that free we paint that thing wrong. This situation we have with the Crown, the situation where we have a war in Europe no matter what we call it, we can call invasion, we can call this or that, but it happens in Europe. It doesn't happen like it used to be out there somewhere far away, it happens in Europe. The consequences of the war that we have in Ukraine will suffer for the next 10 to 15 years not only on the subject of everyday life, on some different over-requirements, on demographics, on the subject of energy, on the subject of food. So, if we want to improve our agricultural production, and I think we can all agree that if we want to do a commission, and we all kind of feel like I haven't heard one before, not one debate on behalf of the clubs or a replica of a minister from which we don't, we're against the commission, so let's see how we try to come up with some kind of solution. No one has a magic wand and no one can prescribe solutions that can work right now, but what I think should be a minimum, that's to see some parallels. This is today on the board I asked and an associate who was together with the secretary of state showed some charts or stories, let's see how much it is the basis of the 2015 law, months, years from beginning to end, and how much it will be based on the law of 2022 days, months, years is it that I'm afraid we're not talking here for days, not months, but we're talking about years. So that's one thing that's minimum standard when you come with a law like this. The other thing is, let's see what elements we base it on. We base it on catastrian municipalities, cadastrian particles throughout the process must be included, therefore, both geodetics and property law relations, and that's our wound cancer. The cancer of this country where we are not many and which is neither too large nor too large, so our early cancer is the situation in which we have a catastrophe or in which we have grantovnica. Even when we've got as many catastres as we can, then you get to the garter shop, and that's what your colleagues have said so far, especially from some parts. So, I guess we've already regained consciousness, and I guess we've already come to the point that we've had that decision over the next ten years, and there's going to be a cadasar for the construction area of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm guessing that where we're going to go to the commission, it's going to be the same thing to do with the cadasar and the grantines connected to the cos without that, you won't be able to implement it, and without that, you won't have all the elements that you need to have. The third thing we need to take care of, I've mentioned it a few times from this pay phone, and I'll mention it this time. Something that in our spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia was one cartogram on which we based different things were pictures or air footage from February 15, '68. who then worked the military and all the footage for the territory of Croatia not to say that they exist for the whole of the former Yugoslavia. To us who, who I've been dealing with, and somehow I'm guessing that still somehow this spatial planning is my basic kind of place that I'm going to be, we were supposed to see it on the basis of that being determined and what's legal, which isn't legal, there were certain boundaries, which is the city, which is the village now that I'm here because this isn't the topic with which I don't strangle you, they were fascinating to me. So, we managed to get the last footage in 2015. We went to Belgrade to pick them up, and now it's a long story of some kind of anecdotes that we managed to get out of that footage of Croatia because when the 5th military area went in with it, it didn't have to do it now, and then I looked at them and compared them because I was curious about how the processes in the space were happening, how people were spreading settlements or cities, and then it was clearly seen that they were spreading it by one common method. There were Polish roads, there were decommissioned parcels that they had received, on these Polish roads along these debossed plots, agricultural land was converted into land on which either construction or illegal construction was made. But something I'm taking this opportunity to emphasize is this, then '68. February 15th, '68. until then, they were overflighted and Croatia was processed. When you see how much farmland was processed in Croatia and make a overlap with the videos, you can have them and now you can have them. So, we were working then in the 2011 overlap, you stay actually surprised. This is no damage to agriculture caused by the re-use of that agricultural land in the building land or did not damage to agriculture, so they did where you spread villages, the damage to agriculture was done because the land was not processed. When the land was not processed, it was not processed and transformed into forests and forest land. We today about 49.3 is the last piece of information we have under the woods and forest land. These forests and forest land were not organized, so by planting that I am now not harassing how many species there are but agricultural land, you can rightly track it along with those woods, so the trees were spreading to it. And when you compare that sixty-eightth thing that's not something terribly far for space right now and you see how much agricultural land has gone missing and it's turned into these woods. Now, the key question is, in this law, what do we want? So, if we're aware of that, and we should be aware, because I don't know what else should hit us on the head, for two years we've been living in a crown that we've been talking all along about having to be independent and sufficient in food production. Now we have this unfortunate war we have, where actually Ukraine that was also a cereal and everything else is a question of what will be next, I absolutely think that the next ten years will be peace processes. We've been through it all, so we know what it looks like. So this should be our priority. And now the topic is whether this law really makes it possible, whether or not the scenarios in which we see that this law makes it possible. Unfortunately, I wish I was wrong, but unfortunately, I don't see that it's gone back into step. You know, when you ask let me see if these procedures are shortened, simplified and all the other answers are, one of the answers is, but I haven't even referred to nat, says the former law had 79 or I don't know how many articles. This one's 50 and something. That's not it. It's that you make one big hodogram and you see in that hodogram how many days it stands. It is not by chance that in the reply of the minister, I have referred not even to the first part, but at the moment you decide how many solutions you have, how many days it takes, and I am afraid that we are not talking about months anymore, but we are talking about years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97410	Thank you. Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek, Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97411	Thank you, well-respected chairman, secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Some time ago, I was just talking about the problem of co-composition and how important it is for the development of agricultural production, or for survival. And that is why today I can be pleased to take part in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land. We've heard a lot today and there's a lot of problems in agriculture, it's easy to count and it doesn't need to be run away from. Small and non-competitive economies, large numbers of ageing economies, fragmentation of agricultural land, small parcels, insufficient application of agrotechnical measures, poor productivity, poor care... and agricultural waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no one escapes, and they need to be dealt with, to make us better. And it is certain that when we look at the definition from the textbooks, which means that one modern processing and application of agro technical measures that enables grouped and regulated property, the more rational use of land, the cost of production is reduced, productivity is increased and contributions are increased in agricultural production. The fact is that after the commercializations were carried out on the larger areas of agricultural land, more modern agricultural production measures were applied, both on social and on individual property. And that they always gave a stable economic effect. I believe and I am sure that agricultural producers, i.e. agricultural land owners, will be able to resolve property-legal relations in a comcommissioning process, and I am sure that we will find a lot of usurped state land to be placed in the function of the agricultural producer. After the procedure, it is certain that there will be a smaller number of surface larger parcels, given the configuration of the terrain and, of course, with a more favourable orientation. There must be one fact, and it's true that the last commission was recorded thirty years ago, and the logical question is why not make it a better quality second in the meantime. Of course, experts point out, and today we have heard problems that are related to the balance, but I am still saying that the problem needs to be run away, the problems need to be dealt with and solved. There are numerous costs, which include the development of an idea project, the execution of geodetic businesses, the assessment, the establishment of property law, the cost of county state commissions. Many land owners are no longer engaged in agriculture, and they have no interest in cohesion. This bill plans to carry out a commission on 18000 ha of agricultural land. In addition, 250 million kunas will be invested. The proposal for a law reduces administrative barriers in order to allow for feasibility and speed up the process of co-operation, put into operation agricultural land that is used or not at all for agricultural production due to fragmentation and small areas. In order to increase productivity and create added value of production, and to make better and more efficient use of agricultural land. In the Republic of Croatia, small and tight possessions prevail. In 2018, 157.344 family farms were registered with an average of 7.2 hectares of area in 8.6 parcels of an average size of 0.7 hectares per plot. For many reasons, and primarily the high cost of land regulation, the co-operation is recommended for the counties with a smaller number of but average larger landowners, while the other counties are recommended some other forms of rounding area and production such as voluntary replacement, selling or creating some new production forms, connecting to producer organisations, but we also have good examples from practice where many units of local self-government encourage rounding of agricultural products, so that agricultural areas can be one quality arrangement, bought, and stimulated by local self-government units. Cooperation creates more favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production by establishing larger and regular cadastrian particles, by building agricultural roads, waterways for meliorations, as well as by carrying out other land planning works intended for agriculture, with due attention being paid to conservation and nature and landscape. It may be initiated if, due to the fragmentation and irregular shape of the land, land cannot be properly processed, if, due to existing real legal relations or due to the large fragmentation of the land, production cannot be organised which ensures that the assets are invested in the area in which they are being constructed or water structures are already built for meliorations or the construction of new transport infrastructures or other infrastructures, infrastructure structures as an arrangement of major water streams. And, of course, it's important that this land depletion is increased and arranged. If a commission is proposed for the construction of water structures for meliorations, it may be initiated if, among other things, the conditions for the construction of these systems are met by a special law. It will not be launched if it is established that the implementation of the work could also make the conditions for agricultural production worse for the landowner in the area in which the commercialisation is planned or not provided for prescribed protection measures on biodiversity and landscape diversity. On the draft law, of course, sanctions are provided for, or penalties for, natural and legal persons. The implementation of systematic co-operation as provided for in the law here should finally be, the final result should be an increase in the value of agricultural land, especially in the context of the fact that by the beginning of 2023, the embargo for the sale of agricultural land to foreign investors, and I also believe that this rounding will also raise the level of infrastructure on that agricultural land at the level where we will come to the place that we actually have and because of the value of our farmers and their knowledge and belongs. The HDZ Club will be supported by the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97412	Thank you. The Social Democrats' club, or Social Democrats' club, is now up and will be represented by Mr. Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97413	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, State Secretary, counterparts and colleagues, and I think that before we talk about the law, we must go back to the 2030 strategy that we discussed in this assembly a few weeks ago, and of course there is a requirement in this strategy to make some improvement and help our farmers to do all these 2-3 hours that we listen to to be competitive, to be self-sufficient, that we can reduce these costs of large fragmentation of agricultural parcels in order to in some way and reduce the cost and walk from one parcel to another, but what is most important is that which also makes a colleague, Anka Mrak Taritaš, whether we want to bring it into practice or not to implement it. When we see that we have this pre-condition of the Inheritance Act, that we have unresolved property legal relations, that we have an agricultural economy in Croatia OPG, which on average has slightly more than 6 hectares of agricultural area for processing, when we see that the average of the size of one particle is 0.7 or 0.8 hectares, then we see essentially the real problem of Croatian agriculture. And I don't think there's a person in this house who, if any, understands the agriculturals, who won't say that there's a lot to be done. And as long as I was a student of agronomy, the main thesis was the composition, the composition, the compassion, and it's not a question of whether or not the commission should be brought or not, but it's a dispute to remove all those obstacles and all those barriers and all those things that can cause a problem from the commission tomorrow. When we see what's happening in Banja where we have money, where we need to rebuild the homes of people living in containers that are in grave condition, and you see how it's all expensive slow, sloppy and never going, and then I can't be some optimist, so now I'm going to say that we're going to do 18 thousand acres in some time period that would be fast, which would be effective in an adequate way, and that there won't be any problems that we've met in the past. What I can say is that in this strategy of agriculture where we see essentially how many people have moved exactly for the very reason that agricultural land is difficult, precisely because of the reasons why red tape is holding them back, the incompetence of small parcels, I think that this law on cohesion should have been a law of state interest, and I think that the state should have been the main holder of the Law on Cooperation, that this should not have been transferred to the units of local self-government, and with due respect to those units, I'm a bit skeptical that this will all be expensive. What's not good, says the minister, is that 17 bodies should have made a decision, now there will be 11 and 11 bodies, 4 solutions is a lot, unresolved property relations, and I'm not sure that in some time period, and I think in a year, two have some good indicators about the circulation and the Law of COMMASATION. What bothers me very much is that there's been talk about that piece for over 20 years, and nothing's been done. And what will be the guarantee that we will do something with this law? I will not say much about the articles of the law and some of the remarks we have until the second reading, we will see what the final proposal will look like, but what is important to stress that this commission itself has not been done since 2015. Before that law in 2015, nothing was done either. When we see how we've had agricultural land and we see that we own RH 460,000 unprocessed agricultural land, so who's to blame? How can a serious state afford to have 460,000 unprocessed agricultural land through its 30-year history? And it's a tragedy. I welcome the Law of Cooperation, we must pass it, we must prevent all these barriers that this law has to implement, and I am not satisfied with all these commissions. When I've been listening all morning, I think that the agronomic profession is completely underestimated, that the agronomic profession has been removed, and I haven't heard at all from any of the agronomic experts who will assess which agricultural production, which cultures, give support, it all comes down to the DORH, the geodetics and the builders. And I can say that it underestimates me as an agronomist that the agronomic profession has been completely removed and the question is at all whether the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb in Osijek was at all what their influence was and how much they could have helped this Law on Cooperation. What I would like to point out is that through the entire management of Croatian agriculture, we have come to the conclusion that we have reduced ourselves to imports, imports of pork, our milkers have been beaten all the way to the end, the cattle producers are also on the respiratory apparatus, and if we are going to work in agriculture, we need to round up the agricultural areas, and it is the task of the state and the ministry to make all the preconditions to bring it in as soon as possible time and to see who will be responsible. I'm curious about when we'll have the first report when we pass the law in the second reading, when we'll have the first report in front of HS that we can say here's the law on the commission has entered into that and that date and in a year we've done this and this project and that will be the person who will be the synonym in Croatia for the commission. One person from the ministry has to catch up on this problem, I'm going to carry that commission on their backs it's going to be my theme, I'm not going to deal with pulsism, all I want to do to the farmers and local self-government units to make them all the prerequisites that with the Commission Act doesn't happen exactly what happened in Bania, that the state is the biggest braker of renovations and that now today we have people in containers that can't go back to their homes because the state has made a system that hasn't allowed the new spending that's on the account of rebuilding houses. And how can we now guarantee our farmers that this law, with some small grudges that could be corrected when it is brought to pass in a few years and that these 18,000 hectares or in the perspective of those 46,000 that are the ultimate objective, which is the guarantee that this will happen? There will be some elections again, new governments will be formed, you are the second minister in the term of this government, but today in a few sentences you withdraw by hand you say it wasn't me, I was in the Ministry of Agriculture dealing with only a team and a team of resolutions which is also probably true, but transferring a ball from one side to another won't solve that problem, and that's the problem of small surfaces, it's fragmentation, it's not management because the state, which is the government and which party was in power to care as the real boss about its agricultural surfaces, would not have happened that 460,000 as you said the ministers quote you, the state land was untreated. You can deny me later. But it's funny to me that we're not talking about farmers' problems, not to talk about the real problems that are happening, but... but I've been listening for a year to see if it's 800,000 acres or 50 that's irrelevant, let's do one law... help the farmers because we do this first thing for them. Here no one is more or less than perhaps a colleague of Lenart's does not do agricultural production, but all the people who sit here will not be engaged in most of the agricultural production. Let's do it to our farmers, that's why we're here, they're paying us. Let's leave the petty populism and make a law that's actually going to be enforceable, that after a year, two days, we'll be able to say every honor, we've made the law, and by that law those 18,000 ha are being circled. We have benefites in dairy, in cattle, in warfare, and that's why these laws are being passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97414	Mr Silvano Hrelja will represent the positions of the Club of Representatives of HSU, HNS and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97415	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In preparation for this discussion, I came across a thought that says about: “For once in your life, you will need a doctor, a lawyer, a policeman, a preacher, but every day at least three times you will need a farmer or his hands. ” I believe you'll agree with that. Agricultural production is a fundamental branch of the economy, and farmers need to bear the prosperity and future of the country, but they also marked the country's history. I appreciate the radicalism, I appreciate what my colleague Beljak mentioned here, but he forgot to mention that in the 30s and 40s of the last century, key to the economy of this field, these people were land and forest communities. We didn't have it in Istria. I accidentally ran into it. So it wasn't about ownership, it was about production, it was about management of resources, it was about leaving it at the garage, which is going to be processed, how much of it is going to get, how much it's going to sell. So there was this type of land management and forest wealth that made people themselves. So those who lived on it. It is one of the qualities of the Croatian people that made her a thorn in the Kingdom of SHS in those years because of the economic prosperity we very little know about, or very little value. So we're going to the present and the future. EU membership opened a large market for agricultural products, but at the same time exposed domestic farmers to strong competition. On the other hand, the pandemic of the coronary virus we have been living with for two years now, the energy crisis and now the war in Ukraine are causing strong global disturbances that will have a long-term impact on agricultural production, food safety and food availability. I dare say that soon agricultural land and water and food will become one of the most sought after, most important resources for our lives. In Croatia, agricultural areas are sufficient but the second question is whether they are used and why they are not used. According to the ARCOD, the use of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia currently processes 1.15 million hectares of land of which 281446 state and 867167 ha private land. However, these data are also quite misleading. It depends when you shoot them out of the air, if you film them in the fall or in the winter, then you will also treat what you see green as a agricultural surface because not one tree has grown on it yet. If you do it in the spring, then you'll be different from the colors whether something is processed or not in the air, so this is the data that needs to be taken with the reserve, but let's trust them because it's the only record. With a number of pains facing domestic farmers, what is certainly a problem for competitive and productive agricultural production is land depletion. About 170 000 agricultural holdings were registered in Croatia. 76% of farmers use less than 5 ha. The data is defeated. The average area of the plot is 0.36 ha which is very small, not enough for any competitive production, and long-term and serious projection of the development of agriculture. It is a problem in all parts of Croatia. The proposal for a law on the combination of agricultural land that we are discussing today should go towards resolving this problem. In the club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, we welcome that proposal as it should reduce administrative barriers and speed up and simplify the process of cohesion, which in practice would mean increasing productivity, creating added value and better and better quality use of agricultural land. As indicated in the proposal, the Commission would create favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production by establishing larger and more regular cadastral particles, construction of waterways and melliorisation buildings, and by carrying out other land planning works. This would also put raw land of as much as 700,000 ha into operation. For the implementation of this law, the first phase should allow for a total of at least 18000 ha by the end of the first quarter of 2026, which is guaranteed, the funds are secured through the national recovery plan and the resilience of around 250 million kuna. I am glad that more JLS from all parts of Croatia has shown interest in the process of communication. I believe and hope that interest is expressed in all counties and I believe that the vast majority of this high house will support this bill. I am sorry, given that it is necessary to develop serious and competitive agricultural production in the future, the implementation of systematic co-operation should also result in an increase in the value of agricultural land, in particular in the context of the fact that in early 2023 an embargo for the sale of agricultural land should expire on foreign investors. It is precisely because of the fragmentation and poor infrastructure of agricultural land prices in Croatia that are currently among the lowest in EU countries, which could not be said for all parts of Croatia. Five years ago. In Istria, there were 5 euros per m2, today this price of agricultural land is from 15 to 20 euros with a potential speculation that it will sometimes turn into building land, at least the part that is along the road, which always prevents certain activities related to the rounding up of agricultural land. But what worries me about the implementation of this law and what could in practice significantly slow the process of co-operation is the problem of unsettled land books and ownership relations. It is necessary to move seriously into the process of regulating agricultural land in a catastrian and land-based way as soon as possible. So this isn't just a job that's connected to one ministry, but it's going to take a synergy of several resors, several resors. The commission itself is a complex business and the law should be simpler and more efficient. To conclude, agricultural production may look easy and successful when a pencil is a plow and an oran office in the city. But we all know that agriculture is much harder, more complex, and requires much more engagement, especially if we want it to be productive, competitive, and quality. You should always remember that old saying that you're not a master of the land, you're a servant of the country. I also ask for the following reading should solve some of the problems that I personally suffer, which is a question of inaccessibility of owners of small plots, what with people who have been evicted and with whom no one can come into contact for 50 years or more, a matter of fileability and simplification of entry into ownership when someone is using other people's land or state land, a question of a policy of abandoned agricultural land, does it make sense that in the context of 5-6 parcels that are being processed there is one plot regardless of the property that only bothers and is abandoned is whether we just have to deal with property or can be confirmed that it can be processed, the question of land replacement. These are all details that should be further explained until the second reading. The proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land goes in a direction which is necessary and the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97416	Mr. William Matula will represent the views of the Green-left bloc's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97417	Thank you, Vice President. The rounding of agricultural properties of course we fully support this intention in the green-left bloc, however, we cannot express the same doubts that have already been said here many times today. Experience is what it is. Personally, I am most familiar with the situation that is right here in the Zagreb area. When you look at the footage of the City of Zagreb, you see a number of large agricultural areas, first of all as potential, then it further spreads to Zagreb County, to Prigorje, to Zagorje and we have heard today that the premises of Zagreb County are even lower than the average at the state level and/or almost as a colleague said down in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where it is 0.20 and I don't know how many hectares per, on average, per plot. - Mrs. Crescent. The minister said that the consequences of this pilot, in which 18 thousand hectares will be combined, would eventually result in no more discretionary lending of the country to the lease and all these problems. When asked where you and your fellow representatives and the public believe I encouraged you to say that there will be no land sale, I hope, of course, and that I believe state land certainly is not clear, but the question is whether JLS will and after that, with the permission of the ministry, whether when these parcels are really increasing will it be possible for some big producers per year who come here whether they will get a concession on something but 99 years, which is also this one, I am glad that you are giving me a sign that they won't, we want to believe that they won't and that it will really go in that direction. And we certainly in the green-left block have no reason to be afraid if there are really people coming from outside, like the example that I've already said here several times, from neighbouring Austria, from Gradišč, which is certainly world-wide close to supporting citizen Croats and the fact that they are truly world leaders in the production of organic food, that we work together, I'll also say cooperatives, but whatever it is you call cooperatives if you're bothered by that evil name, I believe that not because there are cooperatives today and in the laws, I don't see why all advanced and all possible forms of production in this sense would support them. I understand the reasons why colleagues and colleagues in that they are more engaged in agriculture or who are just coming into it and who are more professional than I am, but also what people have written to me and what they warned me about is that the law looks like it's still talking to the north, what you yourself said is not, that people from the Adriatic part of Croatia have not reported to me where there is this Gordian node of insolvent property legal relations at least at this point, but that it reads that it's actually big and possibly medium will only increase those parcels and if it's something that helps large irrigation systems, okay. We miss the irrigation systems so much that let that happen, even though I am glad that as much as I understand my colleague Kolarek and he warned about how much such systems are, where really extremely those large areas of self-inflicted are then going under the exclusive monoculture that it is then dangerous just for everything that is important today and for which we will get money easier from European funds, which is a matter of biodiversity, it is a question of landscape diversity. Not to get to the point that what has been the result of so many decades of neglecting the area of agricultural areas and all of what colleagues have been saying and air footage from everything, is that today, unfortunately, aside from this game problem, but we de facto have on some of those areas this only where we have satisfied this minimal biodiversity in those areas I'm talking about where pre-intense production is happening, which is just relying on artificial fertiliser and pesticides. We are aware in the green-left block, of course we are aware that this cannot be bridged immediately. And what we stand for and what we're going to talk about in the future is what we call urban food policy. As a matter of fact, Zagreb is said to be an optimal city, neither too big nor too small, but I have already mentioned it here Prigorje, Zagorje, but certainly Banija, which is right here and with Sisak who died in the earthquake, along with Karlovac, who is a bigger city, with the rise of Petrinja and Gline who were totally injured in the earthquake, I am convinced that quality implementation of the circle would help them to have families and children and to continue living in these areas in the long term. What I said and what I intend to end this with. From everything the minister said and when you talked about that there will be no more discretionary lending of the country I repeat, however, we have seen how we, as they appeared in the public debate and chambers of agronoms and public record chambers who see everyone as an opportunity to offer their services in the space of the local self-government unit where they assume that there will be a lack of quality power which will be educated that will be able to carry out the commission. And a large number of them are certainly fair and fine and in place. However, in these 300 and someone said 80 I have seen inside 313 million for 4 years the funds that will be for these 18,000 hectares there, I think that many people see themselves able to fit in, and should take into account the huge negative reputation of the HDZ party in power when the issue of corruption at the level of local self-government units should certainly be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97418	Now we move on to individual debates, the first is Mr. Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97419	Thank you, Vice President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, good day, nice hello. Since 1954-1990, when we lived in a different social arrangement and in the planning economy, there have been 654,000 hectares of land. Why did I just say this? Because there are reasons why these social arrangements have failed and why some things have changed and we have entered liberal capitalism. But what's interesting is that when we entered liberal capitalism, we gave up on it because it was probably something that was a relic of the planned economy, and much more developed countries and economics, but also agriculturalally than the Republic of Croatia not to say EU fins in many areas, they've been doing it in continuity for 100 years and they haven't given up on it. Then, of course, one rational question arises, if we have entered a new model, if we wanted to join the EU, why something that some have been doing for 100 years, which we have shown in 40 years that we can obviously work well, we have not been able to run until 2022 means it's more than 30 years. For 30 years, we've been clearing up some alleged agricultural policies and strategies, talking more or less constantly about the same mantra. We had a number of situations where we simply had the opportunity to make a certain turn, but in all those years we stayed where we were in '92, '96, '99, 2007, 2015, 2022, even more so we could say that these 30 years were not stagnant, but only unquestionably failed with many false events and false relics that appeared because everyone who had followed Croatian agriculture clearly knew that in some stages of our statehood we had come to land, that some had used them when we were talking about state land, that we had made a policy that we had not even encouraged production, but we had encouraged those who had scratched as many countries as possible, even though they were growing maquitoes and afterwards made hay. So it is better ever than never and it is nice to know that after 30 years we are finally moving in the direction that is necessary for Croatian agriculture and I think it is now manifested by these crises that have brought about the crown and which this inflation brings to us as an important step towards a clearer and more meaningful agricultural policy, a policy after which we will be able to say that in many more cultures and products Croatia is self-sufficient and does not depend on import, import lobby and what will happen to prices on world markets because it is usually the only thing that went on only Croatian production and Croatian citizens. What I must say from the angle of the SDP is that we will closely monitor the law's development according to the second reading because, as we agree on the need to do so, we must consider that we need to make more changes, not because it is intended to smarten but because we think that there are still a few steps to make the law more life-saving and that it could be used in real projects, in real achievements, in real production and thus strengthen Croatian agriculture. To end, I'm going to say something as mayor, we've had a lot of changes in the rules and how to use state land and how to get local self-government units to do it in some kind of action. But what I can only say is that all of this has always been almost so far, or it has been completely inconclusive, or it has been arranged to know in advance who it will benefit and who it will be a good item for, unfortunately, further wealth, and not for the development of our agriculture. So, from the point of view of a city that is even known for its food production, which is derived from intensive agricultural activity, I can say that we hope and will strive to contribute in future discussions and amendments to make this necessary law a life-longer, more productive and more quality framework for Croatian agricultural production than we have ever had before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97420	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97421	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. As Mayor of the City of Koprivnica, you yourself have stated that you have so far had different experiences with different situations, projects, etc. So I'm wondering if maybe you in those 23 units of local self-government that appeared and showed interest, that's the 46,600 acres, and are you familiar with the criteria that will be seen to choose those 18,000 hectares? We have already testified, and we have heard that in February 2016 we had a pilot project in five counties that was infamous, between these five counties was our Međimurska with five catastrian municipalities, I read this detail now, there were very many expressed interests, people were coming to meetings really it was hoped that the project would live, however nothing. Well, here's your opinion and comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97422	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97423	Thank you very much for your question. I don't think it's 23 units of local self-government, but 28 at the end, but it all works out just fine. So, of course we're familiar with the criteria and there's always this interest, but what I said in my debate, so far, all the changes, changes, regulations, regulations, everything that happened in the end, unfortunately, failed to live up to the practice that the people of the ministry imagined. I have no intention of saying it was intentional because it's for sure that people in certain stages wanted to do the best. But what happened on the ground simply didn't come to life because now it's not just a matter of criteria, we still have a pretty big mess in the grants and now we could spread into a lot of fields, and we don't have that much time because just to give you one little stiletto that we have a situation today in Koprivnica where one big state land used by a large food company now has to overrun it in a different way is finally finished the disputed nationalisation of the communist era. So there's still a lot of things that unfortunately have a bad impact on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97424	Thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97425	On 5 October 2021, a respected colleague, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a public call to the JLS and units of the regional and regional self-government to show interest in participating in the implementation of the NPOO from 2021 to 2026, a concrete improvement of the system for the restructuring of agricultural land and cohesion. In order to participate in a public call, the applicant's obligation to draw up a simple idea solution to the commission is prescribed. For the amount of funding, it is said that the implementation of the co-financing and co-financed by EU funds is up to, from 80% while the co-financing by applicants is up to 20%. Once again, I remind you and your opinion that co-financing under the Rural Development Programme was up to 100%, but of these funds was used exactly 0%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97426	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97427	Well, you've actually said everything in your question. So, the fact is that we've missed a lot of trains and that's why we've been put into a situation that we're going to take some step now, let's try to save what we've given, but we have to admit that there's a train where we could all get 100% on the burden of someone else, and not leave a single share in our budgets or in the resources of the citizens of this country. It's obvious he's not 30 on one side. There was a political will to move in the serious direction of cohesion and change in Croatian agriculture, and what I can say from the field, but that's something that the sparrows on the branches know from the media that we were 30 years old. agricultural policies that were most often turned to large large capital, and therefore we didn't care about any more meaningful and clearer agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97428	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97429	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksic, you have already been said to be the mayor of Koprivnica, both in this sense a city arranged and with a large, large company that works with farmers. However, I am interested in the following, Art. 2. talks about how urgent all procedures are because of this commission. I'm interested, and I've already said that we in the green-left block are very much advocates and we think we should round up the land. But what concerns us is that when people from the field say that every real expert of integrity if he enters the Committee of Commassion is almost certainly already with one foot in Remetinco and then they retreat, and a team that hasn't been a problem for several years is lying down because they'll be well paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97430	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97431	Well, you've asked your question well, and I have to say, at least we haven't had cases like this in Koprivnica. But what I said in my discussion, the system is 30 years old. It was absolutely wrong, and it was clear that in some stages he was making a deal with someone's interests, and of course when you scratch someone's interests, you go try to try a little twisty and make a difference to find yourself in trouble. And the situation when we talk about agricultural policies, about state land, about the interest of large and large capitalists, and then some people who would come on the side to do it in a more professional and better way of self-sufficiency of Croatian agricultural production or dancing on the edge of the day Remetinca or dancing on the edge of potential threats and all the things they carry along because just so far it was absolutely wrong and the result of the fall from year to year of agricultural production that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97432	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97433	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit, when I've read this law and prepared myself for this debate, it's one of those moments when I somehow needed to know nothing, that I don't have any experience from before, that I don't know anything and that I'm actually just thinking about good ideas and good wishes and I'm not burdening myself with all the knowledge I've had before because when I'm reading and studying, I'm actually getting caught up in a little thing like that, I really won't say depression, but I don't feel very well and I don't see any light at the end of the tunnel. When you take some and you study some things, there are some situations that are already 100 years old. They're repeating. One of these situations is the need to build the Danube-Sava channel from 1890 and some, the need to rail in the city center, the debate about whether to rise or drop was in 1892 when it... resigned because of this, the need to irrigate agricultural land and the need to co-operate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last 30 years, there has been no policy option that has not talked about the need for a co-composition and the need for irrigation and where we are, exactly where we are. We're back in 2022. We're going with a proposal for a new Cooperation Act, and what I'm really saying is that the message I'm sending to the Proposer, you're doing a chart for yourself, not for me, not for us, but for yourself. Take a hologram to see what your actions are, what all your steps are and how many days it takes you days, months, years for those steps when the situation is ideal. So I'm really always thinking about homes, and when I do whatever I do, I have needs and draw and draw and watch how much time I need for something to finally make decisions. My colleagues and colleagues, in this composition of the Parliament in the former composition, it will be, and the next we will repeat the same sentences that say that we have an unsettled cadastre, that it is our unsettled gruntovnica, that the situation in the cataster does not suit us on the ground, that the situation in the garland of ownership does not suit us with real condition. How do we do this without it? Exactly how? Not at all. So it's going to have to be projects that are of great importance and there's going to have to be some other method and some other way. If we go through this method and this way in 109 years, we're going down to the catastrophe, I'm not exaggerating, I'm not Caricating. I have to admit, at this point, I'm really talking about something I know about and what I've met and I'm still meeting. So, if we really want to have a membership, if we really want the commission to succeed then it should be a strong political will, a strong professional will with an idea and a vision of what we want. I'm not by accident, so I always read the part I understand, refer to the part that I understand and refer to the part where I have some experience. And I'm not a general practice and I don't understand everything and I don't want to understand everything. I didn't happen to talk about four solutions. Just take one solution. So the first solution, based on Article 32, is that you understand what I'm talking about. So, you have to file a request, you have to have everything in demand. In accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, you have 30 days to make a solution, all in accordance with the laws. There is no right to appeal to this solution, it has the right to a administrative dispute. How long in Croatia does the administrative dispute take me to ask you? How many years? I'm not asking you how many months, I'm asking you how many years? That's the first thing, so this is all that's even complicated because I refer to the decision to launch the commission. All these technical things we've done, done, done. Now we're coming up with a decision to start a merger, so we've defined it all, we've raised 50 plus 1. They're 67. So, all that we are, and now we come to this formal part. I'm asking you, how long does the administrative dispute last? I've known administrative disputes that lasted for years. So let's see this technical part. I want the commission to go, I want the commission to work. Unfortunately, in this bill of law, I see too many traps and I'm just warning you of these traps that it won't happen again in five or six years' time, and let's just say this one didn't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97434	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marin Piletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97435	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Director. Here I had the need to show you all a photograph of the Katastrian Municipality of Rodannik, a digital orthophoto. This is the second Kastastar municipality of Rajić Gornji. If you're looking at the catastrian plan like this, this is what Rajic looks like. And why did I need to show you, so this digital orthophoto plan? Because the Catastrian municipality is next to each other. From Novska all the way to Birthday in '83. Comms started in '86. When I was three years old, it was over. Since then we have heard today in the Croatian Parliament, there have been no cases of co-operation. After the Homeland War, obviously there were other priorities, but this government, with everything it's changed, this Ministry of the Law on Agricultural Land, we've had the Law on settlements, and now we have the Law on COMMASATION. We finally get to the point of what we've been doing for 30 years? It's over. What are we gonna do for the next 30 years? Let's use more than 300 million kuna funds either from 85% of the so-called National Resistance and Recovery Plan and other 15% from national funds. That's the point and that's the key. We don't have time to delay just for this. In the Katastrian municipality of Roždannik no parcels are unprocessed, all of which are registered in the ARCOD, which is not the case with the Katastrian municipality Rajić Donji where more than 50% of the plots have not been processed without saying that they have neither been introduced into the ARCOD system nor therefore contribute to the production of food here on fertile Slavonian soil. That is why, in the eastern part of the city of Novska, five catastrian municipalities prior to the Homeland War were collated, fully processed and 100% of the land reported in the ARCOD. We have three catastrian municipalities left, Rajic Gornji, Donji and Borovac. They contain more than 2000 ha of agricultural land, so which is not neat, there is no such network of channels, there is no possible access to every plot, public road, but quite the opposite. Because of the need for this land to be arranged, but therefore that and the purpose of this law we have ordered, as a city, a simple solution project, a commission for these three catastrian municipalities and the aim is very clear to enable an increase in agricultural production, to create conditions for the implementation of hydro melioration procedures, to create a condition for unlimited access to each parcel. We now have hundreds of particles that you can't come without either holding back your neighbor or not having any inconveniences. Cruise existing properties, so far existing scattered properties become and form an economically sustainable whole after the commission is carried out. And so this was a question about the non-compliance of the borders of the Catastrian municipalities, the local boards of the unit of local self-government on this particular example of the Katastrian municipality of Borovac, and because of the co-ordination we never carried out, we have the uncoordinated border of the unit of local self-government of Novska and Okucan, namely, the uncoordinated border of the county of Sisak-Moslavina and Brod-Posavina, without saying that the residents of Borovac for ownership papers must go to the catastrian office in Gradiška, for one part of their parcels, for the second catastrian office in Novska. It is the deadline for the law to be put into office, that the experience Croatia had had before the Homeland War, has arranged its agricultural areas, and now that this law has been voted upon. If there are any recorded difficulties of inability to implement, I believe that the ministry as a proposing, and we, in the process of adopting this law, will intervene and remove any shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97436	Thank you, in, you have more replicas, the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97437	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here's what you've been doing. We've heard a lot of what you're about to do, which is exactly what you intend to do with this law. However, we heard other views, some other limitations. I am interested in everything that the Proposer or Minister, on behalf of the motion of the Government of the Ministry of Agriculture, has announced, in addition to a series of acts that will speed up and facilitate, simplifying the application of this new law, has also been provided and significant resources through the National Recovery and Resistance Fund. I'm interested in what you think will bring basic difficulties on the ground and whether those with a different view this law will be just as tangible as you. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97438	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97439	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, that's exactly why this picture. There's no more obvious response than this photo, than this orthophoto. The neighbor in the village has everything arranged, there is a road, there is a canal network, there is therefore much more valuable land than the one that is unsettled, which is fragmented, which is therefore on several cadastrian particles, which some cannot reach, some are flooded, so the offerings are not enough. And here in the bill of law and explanation, you clearly saw that only on wheat culture can you come up with 9% higher yields. So that's the point, and that's how people need to be explained to the owners why they're going into business. No one has an unpleasant experience or if they had, they're registered in promiscuous, people haven't forgotten what it means when a land like this is arranged, when you make a traffic racer where you can most normally get your property What does that mean? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97440	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97441	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague here I have not had the opportunity to express my respect for the minister and her team for dealing with this problem, rounding up the land for the pain of production in Croats and clearly more and food on the Croatian market. I am interested in how much the problem of the land book will be in these intentions to round this up and do you think more ministries should be included, not just the Ministry of Agriculture, so that this will be resolved as soon as possible and that the rounding of the country will lead to its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97442	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97443	Thank you very much, colleague, so the aim of each commission is to establish a new land book. So it's a legally prescribed procedure, and of course it's expected that after the commission is carried out that there is no longer any particle in the massacre that existed before. I repeat, we have experience, people who carried out the commission continue to transfer their experiences to younger colleagues in the system of catastra and grantovnica, and the aim is to rest on arranged documents. And the new land book certainly is. So, all so far, the legally uncoordinated information on the ground is corrected by the creation of a new land book. And I believe there are no problems, of course, if the procedures are respected there won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97444	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97445	Thank you, Vice President. Representative Piletić spoke of examples in the town of Novska, meaning those catastrian municipalities that were collated and those that were not. Do you have any indicators in terms of the productivity of agricultural production in these areas? So how much different is this productivity, how much bigger is it on those plots that are co-massed, unlike the ones that are non-commassed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97446	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97447	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, I think I already said that in my opening statement. So, these uncompromised catastrian municipalities, so over 50% of the land is not processed. If we only take that percentage into account and come to the conclusion that 2,000 acres [2,000 ha] of acommassion is not processed, it is therefore not in the system of incentives, nor production. So he's telling you enough that people aren't interested in sorting out property-legal relations and the situation on the ground. That's why the state intervenes. We had a 2015 law that wasn't enforceable, now we won't regret the spilled milk we're going to believe bravely further and this public call the ministry issued has shown that those interested in carrying out the commission has. And the difference of productivity, therefore, of the land itself, which is combined with that which is being processed, and unfortunately, I do not have that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97448	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, here's how when I hear how you've been able to successfully live up to it, so I'm not going to say that from the perspective of a person coming from Dalmatia, I feel a little jealous, but I'm sure with us where and where it's harder to go, here I see that you've convinced people that it's for their own good, that the greater benefits, the added value when the country's congested, when it means it's circled. In Dalmatia, clear people are often and emotionally tied to the country and when you go to hit it, you often experience failure. You certainly had public counselling and various assurances by certainly and professionally, here's what you're suggesting to us in Dalmatia which, as I said, we're quite and emotionally bound even though there's no pragmatism in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97450	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97451	Well, we are no less emotional in Slavonia, so as far as the country's law is concerned, it is clear that this bill foresees that, in a conflicting cluster, of course the area of ownership entered must correspond to the area that you will receive in the division of the massacre and that the position must be somewhat the same as the one you had. So no one's going to lose their country, so the word I'm going to lose my grandfather's. No, that grandfatherhood will be nicer, neater, better quality and more productive. And this is also a message from this law and the government's intensities that we really don't listen to that the situation in agriculture is bad when we have a lot of good, quality examples and small OPGs that, despite all the laws, have grown legal solutions, get grants, improve their mechanization and increase the productivity of their properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97452	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97453	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. I'm glad you sent a message in your debate. It may and must be in the period ahead of us and surely we have shown the political will to do so through the proposal of this law. It is certain that there are certain problems that we have heard of today during the debate, but I would just point out that both ownership and relations that exist are not identical in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. We have a county where both the cadastre and the gruntovnica are solved, and we might even say well, unlike some others where it is still at the beginning of eating solutions, so let's not all look at it equally. What I want to say and unsettled property relations must not be an obstacle. We've brought in this assembly and the law that we popularly call "Lex Cup" to solve the flood defense. And there we shortened the procedure first to speed up [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] the resolution of the project. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97454	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97455	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. If I were desperate and pessimistic like some colleagues this morning when they attacked ministers and did nothing in their midst about agriculture, then I would certainly not, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, spend a geodetic elaborat in the Catastrian municipality of Brestac where we received more than 100 hectares of state agricultural instead of 300 particles, three particles that were created even earlier by a pistachio. So, of course you can. The experience that we have and in the measure that lasted for almost 10 years of course tells us that there will be difficulties or problems, but that does not reduce the fact that we have started to solve the problem, however long it takes. We want this beautiful one to be both beautiful and neater and we see it happening every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97456	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97457	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. Now, we know that even the most important problem that we've had today, and we've heard that it's uncleared land legal relations in order to carry out the right balance. I would give you an example of evoga we in the Varazdin County have 60,000 acres of that is 30,000 taken care of, and these 30,000 still needs to be settled. Since I'm from St. Elijah, where we've spent the cadastral measurement means complete and then when we're the first part that we've made, there was a shot from the air, and then we've only generally seen how many and how all of our particles are arranged, complex, where all of these paths are and where they're supposed to be done, so we've got one whole picture. So now I'm asking you, would it be good if we were to put together for the purposes of massification and introduce one field from the air first, and then see exactly all the problems that are in the field? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97458	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97459	Thank you very much, colleague Dreven Buddinski. So in the Republic of Croatia in the competent authorities, whether it's the State Geodetic Authority, so there are digital orthophoto plans, so all terrains in the Republic of Croatia have been recorded. These are publicly available data that can be searched and used operationally for both parliamentary debates and for the resolution of all possible land difficulties, whether agricultural or constructional. Of course, this is exactly the kind of picture that says more than a thousand words when you put the catastrian community next to each other, the difference between the sky and the country in terms of the arrangements of agricultural land. This is the best message why we need the Minister of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97460	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97461	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. A colleague of yours in your debate, or we could see that you've done a lot of preparations. You're one of the 28 units that signed up for a public call issued by the ministry, we know that the funds are secured in part and through the NPOO. The roundtables guarantee the savings of money times, but also the staying in rural areas, which is in these demographic situations for me and most important. Realising that this is not an easy or simple process that needs to be very supportive of all of this, and whether you are ready and teamed up to implement all of this by 2026. When for the first round, is this a deadline for implementation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97462	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97463	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk. So I believe that in our unit of local self-government we are, therefore, about the personnel working in the city administration, whether about the people working in the grantovnica, within the Ministry of Justice, or in the establishment of a cataster of the State Geodetic Administration here in Novska. For all those who are not teamed by the law, it also provided for the possibility to use personnel from therefore a unit of regional self-government, from the Ministry of Agriculture, and in this way we believe that as a society and as a community and as a state, we will certainly respond to the challenges of selecting the staff to carry out the commission through the proposed commission as well. We need to be teamed up on the ground where we call daily tenders for sale or so concession or renting state agricultural land. The farmers need land. This is where I set an example for you. 1,000 acres is out of order. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97464	Now he'll speak to the esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97465	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, colleagues, so here is this bill if we can define the main objective, or one of the most important objectives, is to reduce administrative barriers in the implementation of the commission in order to increase the overall agricultural treatment area and increase productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural producers themselves. That this is so, i.e. that enough in this proposal of the law is all very precise and clearly elaborated and speaks this precise and clear hodogram of the implementation of the commission with very clear and defined tasks of the participants and with clear and defined deadlines for the implementation of those tasks. The ministry publishes public calls, the ministry publishes public calls for expert geodetics, a decision to make a proposal... the solutions also of the local self-government unit, the ministry approves, etc., that I do not list all the steps in the implementation itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This one is indeed very, very precise and most importantly a reduction in the number of total bodies involved in the implementation of the commission from 17 to about 11 which in some ways guarantees us the simplification of the whole of this, this process. Regardless of this administrative objective, the overall most important objective is certainly the ultimate objective of increasing agricultural production and thus increasing both the competitiveness and our agricultural producers on those surfaces and ultimately the survival of our villages. The situation on the ground and the need for the implementation of the commission are certainly different, as some speakers before me have said and differ from one region to the region in the Republic of Croatia. In the area of Baranja, the commission was carried out somewhere in the 1970s, so 50 years ago, and it was then designed for the purposes of then technology or mechanization of agriculture, etc., these were areas about 5 to 10 hectares, etc. They circled. Today this situation is very different. It is certain that for today's mechanisms for average players over 100 horsepower each area below 5 hectares is practically invaluable especially when considering that these agricultural areas are often 5 to 10 times away and sometimes even more than tens of kilometers from the OPG headquarters and then when you take the prices of today's euro diesel etc. or, that is, this blue diesel, you can see that the rentability of such agricultural production is questionable and that we really need to move as quickly as possible and as soon as possible towards this rounding or implementation, the implementation of this task. This bill gives great role and importance to local self-government units, but I will note that local self-government and so far have played a very important role in the management and management of agricultural land. It was through the distribution programmes of local, local and regional self-government units that they needed and suggested and tried some more successfully, some less successful rounding, rounding up particles in technology and through, then through tenders for sale, for rent or concession in this way, and rounding up these areas. I say some of them were more successful, some of them less, but here we have today, we can really say positive examples. I say there we have examples where on such surfaces that are now on average about 7-8 hectares in a piece, these are successfully conducted and some other procedures or irrigation systems are being built, etc. That, that's one of these more positive examples. We also witness on the ground, and once in my opinion, a positive process, that farmers themselves simply replace or combine their agricultural surfaces, surround their surfaces and thus become competitive and thus improve their position. I think that we should think, find ways, how to sort of formalize these surfaces, or to do that, to save those agricultural producers and the state the cost of sort of human beings to sort of go through this and to say avoid unnecessary, unnecessary costs, right? I think this law will ultimately really enable [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a commission where it really is needed and has an interest in it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97466	Thank you, thank you, we have more replicas of the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97467	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here we see that the remarks and implementation of this law have been preceded by more problems which were more or less real and objective, but here is a positive example that you have shown through your debate and a respected colleague from Novska you have shown that despite the problems that much could be done and much more prepared and more prepared to welcome the implementation of this new law that is ahead of us. We can address problems as the biggest, biggest problem of property law, but we can also call them sociocultural relations, relations, traditional relations in different regions of the Republic of Croatia. However, one of the problems mentioned today is the possible problem organisationally in JLS mainly those smaller in terms of lack of financial resources, lack of expert personnel precisely for lack of money, however here is the Republic of Croatia's report. the partnership relationship and will allow such cooperation to be carried out. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97468	Dear Representative Shashin, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97469	Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97470	Please, let's stick to the weather, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97471	Thank you, colleague, for asking. This one, however, is foreseen here, you saw that, indeed this time, concrete means were provided for the implementation of the commission, in the '22s. It's about 18 million kuna, so then it's somewhere in '23. 40 and something, then 90 million kuna in '24. And I think those funds will really be enough for this one. What you were saying about the lack of personnel or capacity in JLS is indeed present in some JLS, but there are units of regional administrations or counties that jump into such situations, and in the end even the ministry itself really have positive examples where we have addressed and through our programmes of implementation of the programme on the availability of agricultural land where ministry officials have indeed come to our meeting, helped us to respond to ambiguities, to questions, so here we need to be somewhat flexible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97472	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97473	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Shaslin, the purpose of this new Law on the Commission of Agricultural Land is to round up agricultural land, then resolve property relations, then increase the value of land, better working and land processing, and one of the main objectives is to improve the rural area in which we live, and especially the rural area in which the commission will be carried out, so can you comment on the benefits that will be a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97474	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97475	So all these advantages you've listed are really standing, this one. We need to enable those to tell now the larger farmers. We have a lot of these now, we can't call them as small people who work over 100 and 200 acres of land, this one we have to let them really apply to, on these parcels, the maximum or the last, the last technique that exists and which is, at the moment, the most perfect in agriculture. But we also have to enable these smaller agricultural producers who may be engaged in vegetables, fruit growing, etc. that they too, in a way, pitches, parcels, together and to increase agricultural production or make it more profitable because I say the costs myself, you see how much, how much they jump now, and all this just puts into question that kind of production. Here we have a problem over there with the plastics and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97476	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97477	Thank you. Here, dear colleague Shashin, I disagree with your claim that all parcels below 5 hectares are not profitable for processing. Here's my biggest 4.2 hectares of 27, and I'd love to have at least 5, but the price of the euro diesel doesn't play such a big part in the very rentability of production if it's done rationally with production and machinery. Farmers themselves know how well to calculate their rentability and how many surfaces they can process. I'm processing land in the Kutina area that's been combined there in the '60s, there's smaller parcels, there's a part that used to do PIC, today it's one of the bosses, there's no possibility that this should be taken away from people because there's no possibility that it's now something round, so things are divided, communicated. So I think we should let the peasant decide for himself what's rentable and what's not, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97478	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97479	Dear colleague Lenart, I absolutely agree with you and I have also said in my statement that, the situation on the ground is significantly different from Eastern Slavonia, Baranja to Western Slavonia, like, that I am not talking about Dalmatia is and indeed this law I think enables, or ensures, that there is a legitimate interest in showing the wishes of those landowners who really want and who have a need for, for the implementation of the commission. No one's going to impose on anyone something that he doesn't want to eat except in cases where it's something special in the interest I don't know how to build any roads, etc. where the state will have its own interest. However, here in these areas where they are already traditionally smaller plots, I know that there will be difficulties, but here is the possibility for everyone to really agree and to help the state to realise their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97480	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97481	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shaslin, in your opening presentation, you mentioned the role of JLS and the rounding of land by fixing the situation on the ground. However, we could hear in the assembly here today that the ministry is paving this job from the Law on Cooperation, as well as on the availability of state agricultural land for JLS. In your opinion, who is the most interested, who has the most financial benefits to take care of the situation in agriculture as much as possible and to put state agricultural land into office as possible, as well as the implementation of the field of cohesion?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97482	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97483	Thank you, Vice President. So here I think you've guessed one, one important question, or I'll answer you briefly. Surely the best situation in the field and the need to implement the commission, and otherwise for the management of agricultural land, JLS mainly knows the municipalities and residents, or the people of the local farmers who live there. They really know best what they're doing in this situation and otherwise in other situations, whether there's a membership there, at the moment I'm talking about composing, whether it's necessary or not, but they also knew best before they had agricultural land. The worst situation was when all of this was excluded from JLS and given to the agency, literally nothing was done. We had in Osijek there, outposting an agency that just happened to be in the 4th year. They literally didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97484	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97485	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shashin. Well, here, often when it comes to agriculture, the public can get one wrong impression, and the first and first figure to be read is that it's about 750,000 hectares of unprocessed surface, which absolutely doesn't stand and I don't know where that data is printed, but it creates the impression that it's basically government land. Conversely, that's why this Law on COMASATION is good, we have lots of private parcels where owners are scattered around the world, property law is not solved, and these parcels create a problem for what we're talking about today. Farmers who deal with agriculture want these parcels and buy, if necessary, but property relations are complex, complicated and this creates a problem. But it's not state land, it's mostly private land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97486	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97487	Thank you. So here's how I can tell you from the part where I really know the situation, which means in those areas, or the plain parts of our entire Slavonia and Baranja, you'll find very little unprocessed agricultural land, very little. So that land that's cost-effective for production, agricultural production, it's mostly processed. Most of the time, I think it's hilly areas where we have small-sized parcels that are unprocessed, often it's pitches that run like pastures, etc. and on which the rentability of any agricultural production is at stake. Therefore, statistics are said to be an accurate set of incorrect data, often with that figure of 700,000 hectares as easily as it is not processed, etc., and the question of whether it would at all be of any interest to individuals or agricultural producers to process these and such agricultural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97488	Thank you very much. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative of Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97489	Vice President of HS, Minister with a colleague. No matter what we're talking about, I wouldn't want to get the impression that personally me or my club that we're against the Law of Compassion. No, anyone who has any understanding of agriculture is the only thing that can know that by rounding and increasing the area of individual particles where agricultural production is carried out is one of the main preconditions for it to be effective. Now whether it's important at the price of a blue elevator or it's important when a combination comes in so that that six-metre ugly thing has to go on 16 little particles, these are now topics that a lot of people here have never met in practice and I won't talk about it, they're pure technical things strictly specific. What I want to say is that we certainly support the Law of Compassion, but what I must warn, we must warn as an opposition that you are here to implement this law and that this Law of Compassion is effective. And how effective it will be when, in a time period of some few years, it can come out with an exact factual state and a word of 18,000 hectares as much as we planned and we realized as much. Where am I a little skeptical? I'm a little skeptical that I really see that the agronomic profession here is somehow removed from the sides, with all due respect and geodetics and the state's attorney's office, and the cataster, and the land books, and I think that the agronomic waist has been removed from the sides, and we see that on these individual particles that what happened to us in history happened to us that we had a variety of support, so people got support from 16,000 kuna per hectare, to deal with the production of peaches around Karlovac and to spend huge funds, nowhere peaches, anywhere production, no product. It was with nuts, too. What we have to do, we have to do to include the profession, to see what's going on on in that bunch of thoughts about producing that unit of local self-government that's missing, who's in the biggest troubles. If the local self-government unit has the biggest problem with dairy, so let's give priority to these milkmen not to destroy that milk production. If these are agricultural producers dealing with these heroes, let's give them an advantage of including the agronomic profession, let's once get rid of populism and tiny speculation and let's make an effective law that won't brake. I have to come back once more when I was talking on behalf of the club, so let's not do it with the law on the membership of the earthquake law that I have down in Bania and just that. Yes, we welcome the Law of Cooperation, I'm skeptical that units of local self-government alone on their backs can show due respect to certain mayors who do so in their midst in a quality way. I think that in the Strategy of Agricultural Production, the state must carry that commission on its back, you have to determine one person in the ministry who will be synonym when anyone sees it on television to say e. here's where this one will now start talking about membership. We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't fall in the process all the time. Well, it's not easy to go to the bank today to open a current account, so you have to have a bunch of paperwork, let alone 18,000 acres of agricultural land when we haven't done anything effectively in 30 years with one law. Well, you won't. It's pure utopia. And I'm sure I won't say it for sure, but I'm pretty sure you're not going to be a minister, too, so he's going to tell some of his stories with some other associates, some of them farmers have nothing. These are not topics for petty pulsism, these are not topics for getting political points. If anyone wants to make farmers reach agricultural areas, those who do not have them, and those who have particles scattered in different municipalities to try to help them narrow down, round up, and have easier conditions for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97490	We have a few replicas. The first one is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97491	Dear colleague Vukas. I am expressing concern that a significant part of the NPOO funds will not be used. The plan for the production of sub-legislative assets is unknown, and the end of the 250 million kuna investment is projected by the end of the first quarter of 2026 when some 18000 ha of land should be co-operated, and this law is only in the first reading. It is also unclear whether activities in the implementation of the COMM will continue during the 2023 to 2027 programming period or will only be financed from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Because the public is not familiar with the content of the strategic plan within the framework of the common agricultural policy, as well as the fact that it is planning to carry out the follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97492	Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97493	Well, that concern you've shown your colleagues and I'm showing the same and my certain hunch is that that's exactly what's going to happen, that this plan will not be implemented because I don't see it, I don't really see it with good faith, I don't see that it can be done. And I think whether the EU's funds are that the Republic of Croatia must have agriculture as a strategic production. We have to have our own resources when we want to do something. If we want to round up 18000 ha and help the agricultural producers, it is already slowly creeping me out with the national recovery plan, the EU, the money from Europe. So we have to be aware as a state that we have to invest ourselves in our production. When we accepted the strategy, there was no war in Ukraine. Now the whole tenth thing has happened. The question of what would that strategy look like if we talked about her here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97494	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97495	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You were in the debate when you debated on behalf of the club, and in individual reference to the role and importance of the agronomist. So it's always a theme of form and content. So, often when it comes to laws, we discuss form. All those who need to participate in making solutions, doing everything else. But I'm kind of the same as you, that those who need to make the last decision are agronomies. Someone whose profession is something, we somehow forget the profession and it just serves us as some sort of argument to strengthen something or not. I also think that in one answer, when reference was made and in public presentation, agronomies and agronomists pointed to the problem, and then they were responsible for their active participation, active participation and in the preparation of the law and everything else. But in the end, a bad decision will be a bad decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97496	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97497	Well, I agree that I pointed that out to you, and I'm going to say it over and over again, that the agronomic profession is kind of being removed from the side. I think that with all these other professions that must be included, I think that this project should also be worn on its back, because if it weren't for the Minister Vukkovic, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, would not even be the subject of this proposal for a Law on Cooperation. And it kind of saddens me, because I've talked to a lot of teachers from the Faculty of Agronomics and I haven't gotten the impression that this agronomic profession is just as consulted as it should be to implement this law, to prepare this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97498	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97499	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vukas certainly knows little about agriculture, and even if he doesn't understand it, looking at it from the chair means that cohesion is something that is very important, necessarily rounding up the land, solve at the end of the land. The agronomic profession, in fact, has no successful agriculture without the profession. But in order to have that successful agriculture, we have to have that added value, we can't just be a raw material base. And that's one of the problems. But what I think, and I think that unfair commercial practices do harm perhaps even the most to Croatian agriculture, here is specifically to dairy farmers where milk producers produce milk of two kunas and twenty limes, and in trade chains they climb up to 11, 12 kuna. It also means these unfair commercial practices and unfair trade margins that have become everyday in Croatia are essentially destroying the foundations of what we are trying to talk about in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97500	Well, here's a thank you for touching that. An unfair trade practice led to us practically killing our agriculture, but that's where the state failed. The state was supposed to help its milkers in time, and the state was supposed to help its pigs in time, and the state was supposed to help the cattle sector in time, and what happened happened. It happened that we were flooded by imports, and our production was getting smaller from day to day. It happened that our quality products here, above all, I mean wheat, corn, barley, the tooth is exported out immediately after harvesting, and the question of what kind of products we import from the world, Europe, is irrelevant. And these are the things where the strategy did not control agriculture as it should be managed, and in order for the economy not to have so many thousands I will not speak the number of unprocessed agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97501	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97502	A respected fellow doctor of Scientia Hrvoje Kutnjak from the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb says Croatia has countries to feed 11 million people, and then we have so many countries not only to feed 11 million citizens but to export food. The situation in Croatia is different. We import more than 50% of food products, so we import. I'm wondering if you think this third happiness of composing, we know in 2009, so, try, a strategic document is going to try to round it up. So, 2015, so-called Jakovina's pre-election stories of the same composition. Is this the third chance that the commission will succeed, and if we're finally going to move here into a better future regarding the production and protection of our farmers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97503	Thanks for asking. I don't think that third happiness is going to bear any great fruit, unfortunately. I'd like the numbers to deny me, I'd like it not to be so. But I've been following that agriculture since 2004, and simply, statistics have knocked me down with some good will, with enthusiasm, with some wish for it to be really good, that we have the self-sufficiency of agricultural production. So we have the surface, we can produce everything for us, we can do it. The numbers deny us, because if the numbers didn't deny us, it wouldn't be so much imports and so little exports. But most tragically, we export what is quality, and we import it unqualityly, and it has shown you the last census of the population that we stand in the areas of the country where the primary activity is agriculture. And here as a state we have failed, I don't care which government and which party and I am not some optimist of your third happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97504	Dear representative Mariana Petir will speak next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, MPs and MPs. With the restrictions that Croatian farmers face due to a large number of debossed agricultural areas, especially in the north and in the south of the Republic of Croatia, we have debated countless times here in the Croatian Parliament. This, of course, affects the competitiveness of agricultural producers, has a direct impact on the management of agricultural land in the environmental, economic and ecological sense. We also have positive examples in which units of local self-government were the kind of communicators in which they managed to moderate the agreement between farmers on the ground and thus encircle the parcels of agricultural land. That the depravity of parcels is a major problem for Croatian agriculture is also a very generous resource which is provided for the implementation of this law from the national budget of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme of 313 million kunas for the period from 2021 to 2026. We know that agricultural productivity in Croatia has been historically conditioned by low capital investments in development under additional difficult circumstances such as the problems related to the consolidation and management of agricultural land. Low agricultural productivity is the consequence of, among other things, a limited coverage of the irrigation system, depletion of agricultural parcels, insufficient protection and continued monitoring of the agricultural land situation, as well as insufficient use of best production practices. Despite the significant areas of agricultural land, Croatia is below the EU average by the productivity of natural resources and by the efficiency of our agricultural economies. The efficient use of agricultural land on a large part of the area is limited because there is a significant number of deprecated, inter-distributed working areas. The average size of the agricultural holding in 2020 according to the Agricultural Payment Agency Report was 6.7 ha and therefore a prerequisite should be created to allow for an increase in the average size of the agricultural holding, inter alia, and in the process of rounding up, i.e. the cost of agricultural land. The implementation of the process of cohesion of areas which are currently less suitable for agriculture due to poor conditions, of course, will become more attractive for agricultural production, inter alia, the process of co-operation plans to build a network of accessible Polish waterways where the need for such systems is demonstrated. It will also create preconditions for the application of modern farming methods, and the construction of infrastructure plans to make land easier and more efficient. The implementation of planned activities will contribute, in addition to all the above, to better water management and water conservation, to the prevention of erosion and acidification of soil, to the preservation of air, to the arrangement and protection of landscapes, to the increase of employment, which will directly and indirectly affect the restoration of rural space and the survival of the Croatian village. Agricultural land is defined by both the Constitution and the Agricultural Land Act as being of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. Measures aimed at managing and protecting agricultural land are the priority of national agricultural policy. The 2030 agriculture strategy recognised the key need to achieve greater coherence between the agricultural production system and the agri-ecological properties of the production environment through better land use planning. To this end, information tools will also be developed to collect land data covered by the conflict, so that experience can also be used in the future. We know that after the adoption of the Cooperation Act in 2015 and the implementation of its first phase of 5 pilot projects, there was in fact knowledge and the need for the law to change what the ministry had done and referred the law to the procedure. Meanwhile, it also called for a public invitation to show interest in conducting a comcommissioning process that was reported by 23 local self-government units offering 46600 ha of agricultural land. We have the money for 18,000 ha, so this way I appeal to the Ministry to provide sufficient funds for the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97506	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97507	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Petir, here he is at our minister's opening statement that a committee has been formed to draft this proposal, which was brought together by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Justice, the State Geodetic Administration and the Scientific Community. However, we have heard from some of the debates so far that the proposal was an exceptional agronomic profession, so I ask you, as chairman of the Agriculture Committee, if you believe that this claim is correct, that the agronomic profession is excluded from the implementation of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97508	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97509	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of the council. As far as I know, teachers from the Faculty of Agronomics were involved, so I believe they took care of the balance and representation of the agronomic profession. In the e-consultation of this law, it is true that Croatian Agronomic Society has apostrophe of this problem because they have estimated that the agronomic profession is not sufficiently represented and we have asked the minister for a statement on the committee. She denied it and said that agronomies would be included in all public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97510	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97511	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Petir, here we have heard that the City of Novska has responded to a call for a statement of interest in the implementation of the commission, so do you have any idea whether another unit of local self-government from your Sisak-Moslavina County that was affected by the earthquake has reported, is it interested and what you think will impact and help farmers to get this membership as a law and enforcement? And these farmers who can expect in the future when it's done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97512	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97513	Thank you very much, colleague Zmaic, for asking. I know that 23 units of local self-government have come forward, and I asked the minister just this morning because I was curious, I wanted to hear more about whether there are some regions in Croatia that can show greater interest than we knew on the board that in the area of Međimurje municipalities and cities themselves organised a kind of natural road along with farmers, tried to carry out a commission, so I have no knowledge that municipalities and cities have come forward, but according to what the minister answered my question that local self-government units in all areas of Croatia have been represented. I think we need to be interested in these 46,600 acres that are of interest to try to find financial resources because according to what we know now, we have money for 18,000 hectares, but I hope that here, through the determination of priorities, the commission will be highly placed on the scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97514	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97515	Dear Representative Petyr. Given your long-standing experience in agriculture and agriculture policy, Croatia and the EU, I wonder if you could explain to me a little bit the fact that you said that the average agricultural economy in Croatia is somewhere around 6.7 hectares, if I am not wrong about the average agricultural particle or about 0.8 hectares. Now given that we have large areas in Dalmatia... where these particles are significantly, significantly more and more depleted, we are hardly going to be able to change that average by this Law of Compassion. I am interested in your opinion, your experience regarding the most developed agricultures of an EU Member State such as the Netherlands, Hungary, Poland, etc. What is the situation there with regard to us in relation to them? Is it always the condition of the size of the economy or the size of the particle for development, or the degree of development of the total agriculture, as well as the individual holding?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97516	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97517	Thank you, Agent Shashin. Well, of course it can't be productive only by the surface, because we know that in the Netherlands literally every inch used, and that these areas that are owned by certain farmers are not that big, but the fact is that every inch is produced by something, either by flowers or by dairy production or by a pig, so there's no pedal that isn't used. Here we were listening to some colleagues who used to say that there are areas that simply haven't been brought to our senses, the reason why they can be property relations, but there are a number of other reasons. So it's perfectly safe that rounding can contribute to more productivity, but there's also a question of irrigation and some other practices, positive practices that should be used more often and more often to help our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97518	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97519	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Petyr. When I entered HS and I circled there that I wanted to be a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I couldn't imagine that in this year and a half we would hold 58 sessions, that we would really talk about agriculture intensively and in plenary sessions. And this law goes hand in hand, here you are as chairman of the parent board, including the minister, the ministry gives a clear signal that something is happening in Croatian agriculture. Is that enough? It certainly isn't. How about more? You got it. Harder? You got it. But what I see in the piece as a project, regardless of the amount of hectares of 18,000 acres, we have so much money, it might be more and more something that needs to be resolved very quickly, which is what brings climate change to us. This is exactly the kind of thing that we're going to do, at least partially, or we're going to try. solve this big global problem. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97520	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97521	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. You are absolutely right, so the climate changes, it inevitably affects agricultural production and we feel it literally every year from year to year, even according to some projections that scientists and experts have calculated might happen to us by 2050. yields fall by 8-10% if we do not contain climate change. This means that we must make greater efforts, especially by focusing es towards preserving biodiversity and using good agricultural practices. In this sense, it is certainly true that these elements are also recognized in this law, which are not only about rounding up agricultural land, which is important and what is the basic intensity, are already going in this direction to preserve and improve its both ecological and economic value.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97522	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97523	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Do you think that this law or criteria will determine which 18,000 hectares will encourage more organic production? In view of the EU's aims to increase the area under organic production to 25% of the area that Croatia must actually follow. Eco-producers believe that organic production should be far more valued in the criteria for the exercise of the right to use state agricultural land. In addition, they believe that the state should take greater care of the protection of agricultural land from erosion by water and wind, green fertilisation, environmental protection and nature, which in principle is not sufficiently mentioned in this law, practically more emphasis is placed only on the protection of landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97524	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97525	Thank you, Representative Maric. So all these elements you mention are prescribed art. 6. the new Agricultural Land Act, where good agricultural practices should be taken into account, including green fertilisation and fertilisation and all that is important for agricultural production. It is difficult for me to answer your question whether these 18,000 hectares will be under organic production, since I do not know which units of local self-government have appeared, and as far as we have heard, the Minister does not know what the expert commission will determine after the evaluation is made. However, in any case agricultural land, the Agricultural Land Act, which was on the board in the final draft of the law, has an additional point for organic production, so that environmental producers are rewarded. What we should make sure that this organic production is slightly more diverse than the hazelnuts and nuts we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97526	Thank you. And now he will speak to the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97527	Your Honors Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. The commission is certainly a necessary process in those areas in which it is to be carried out, but it is also necessary and painful and complicated for many stakeholders of the process. As far as the law that is here and so far has not worked, will it work? I don't know. I must admit that here is the minister's will and efforts to address the accumulated problems in agriculture over the past 30 years, but I am afraid that those resources managed by this ministry are not enough nor interested enough or capacitated in much of that they want to contribute to the maximum resolution of all these problems that Croatian agriculture has accumulated. He says the procedures of the commission will reduce the number of cadastrian particles of agricultural land per owner. We have today a more efficient method, faster which can reduce the number of particles. For example, a plot of 4 hectares that I've put together I've bought from a few owners of 12 particles and if I wanted to erase the boundaries between these particles now that it's one particle I'd have to do the elaborates, the meters, and it would cost me more than that land is worth when it was purchased. So let's simplify it with one administrative measure, who wants to erase the particles and turn it all into one let the state do its cost for him and the picture will be drastically different than it is today. It's some mother's business. It's some stepmother's. We know how the privatisations were done in Croatian, we know how the division of the state agricultural land was done in Croatian, so here is normal for anyone to suspect who has agricultural land or otherwise that the commission will also be done in Croatian way. My parents spent their whole life having been traumatized by the 60s when they were taken from them, given less quality because they didn't belong to the Partizan families, and those who belonged were given what was best. I'm afraid we could do it in that direction today, I'm not saying, but possible. Every farmer is sentimental about his field. I've been working on my property for 30 years, repairing the country for 30 years, expanding it, knowing about each of my plots, and even the least of the 2,500 squares in which it needs to be isolated, where it needs to be missed, and I'm opposing these claims that the smaller parcels are not profitable. We look north at Italy, we look at Austria, so are their farms bad? I don't think so. That they're one light year ahead of us. I've passed northern Italy many times and there are thousands of squares and five thousand squares, and there are no big boards until you get there to Turin, but it's manufactured. It's important to produce on every piece of land. In 30 years of Croatian recent history, we don't have enough food today, we don't have enough energy, so we missed all agricultural policies. Why didn't the work done 20 years ago? Or maybe we've come, I guess, that the state agricultural land around here somewhere now through the competition we've divided, there's a moratorium coming out to buy land, so maybe we should personally circle it up to create some new larger plots because the former ones that were created were created at a time of Communism when it was more easily taken away and circled, so to prepare it for those who aren't interested in small plots. Supposedly, God forbid it wasn't so. Statistics tell us we're petty, believe me, we're not that small. Today, because of the European funds, we are doing depletion, we are creating small economies because economies below 30 hectares are very difficult to get money from funds, and then some of them are transferring to younger ones, creating 5.6.7 hectares and creating new smaller economies to at least pull something back. We're doing everything against what we're supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97528	Thank you. Honorable representative Dark Taritash, stay here, you have replicas, and you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97529	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lenart you have me in fact, your debate has opened up another story, and this is what we are really talking about today about that large number of cadastre particles, but you are clear on your example and it is always good when a man has his own example so she can say, in principle you are not, you bought certain if I am well-defined particles and you did not form a new particle for the simple reason why you concluded it doesn't matter they are anyway and so my own did it in relation to ownership is not a dilemma, and this whole process requires time, looking for this extra money and I don't want it to go like that, one day when you're going to take care of the catastrian community where you're going to take care of the real state. It seems to me that it's one if I understand it correctly, and I think I am, that one thing actually is that people are not encouraged to take care of their property but to leave it the way it is and that it should be one of the measures and the way it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97530	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97531	Here, you're right. So the particles that are bought and that are combined and even some units of local self-government support that they combine and round up properties, but the particles remain particles. Thanks to the ARCOD system that allows us to unite them with one ID plot, it makes it easier for us to log in to the support system and every year when the surfaces have to register as sown but the particles continue to remain in the particle catastrus. It could be very easy to round them up, delete them, of course, whoever wants to, whoever doesn't need to force him to do it, but it would be a much better picture in a very short time when, by administrative decision, anyone who wants to do it simply erases and converts it without a lab, measurement, and wonders that cost a miracle of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97532	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97533	Dear colleague Lenart, here I truly appreciate your experience and knowledge as regards agriculture and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, but above all, the man who deals with agricultural production and, in particular, that you say that you are connected to each of your particles, that you know it in your soul, you know the quality of it, etc., that is to say that you really know the problem. Now, from your discussion, I haven't really been able to figure out whether, in fact, you approve or feel that the implementation of the commission would be good specifically for you in your local self-government unit or whether it's unnecessary for this one to be there enough to erase I don't know the particles and to merge, etc. Yeah. I think that in one good part of the Republic of Croatia, it is still necessary and it should be possible for people to do so if they want to and if they have a need. Where there's no need, of course they won't force anyone or go. I don't know. I'd like you to be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97534	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97535	Here, thank you, colleague Shashin. We understood each other well, didn't we? In my unit of local self-government means the Catastrian municipality of Kutina, the commission was carried out there in the 1960s. There's roads, there's a channel network, there's a table that's been processed by former PICs today by some of the private producers and there's, like, tables between channels and roads that are cut down with multiple particles that are processed by private owners with smaller machinery and smaller capacities. I don't think there's a need to carry out the work, but where it's never been carried out and where it can be done it certainly needs it to at least get it into some proper frames, but never do it violently. And by light measures, I think it's very difficult because you know there are people who don't change the kuna for a kuna, let alone a parcel for a plot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97536	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97537	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart, we all know that it's your profession and your life I'd say, so here's a very specific question. Croatia has countries to feed 11 million people. The first question is why in the last 30 years have we not developed a third is why? The second question is, do you think this story of co-composition that I think we've agreed to most of it is really going to be the third happiness? We had 2009, 2015, we have 2022. Can you as a man who really knows the matter from the inside, and you have experience here from the constituency benches as a politician say if this will be the third happiness or if we wait for the fourth happiness or maybe the fifth happiness, and maybe the sixth happiness, and maybe they're in the well, and maybe they're in the woods? Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97538	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97539	I appreciate the question. As far as agricultural production is concerned, that we have capacity for, I believe, more than what you have stated. I'll explain it very simply to you in a vivid way with military production. After entering the EU, the market for Italy, Austria, Germany opened up where partners with a decent price pay the product on time. The warriors organized themselves, produced, tried to make as much money as possible, and have an extraordinary profit by this year, next year, when the seed will cost us pepper, and I don't know what it'll look like. In third happiness I no longer believe that everything depends on the people who are going to do it and whether they really want to do it or whether this is one of the processes that we here in the assembly are aware of, every day we make laws, and they are very little effective or no use at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97540	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97541	Here, dear fellow MP, I will try to quote you here somewhat because you said among other things, the goal is to turn as many countries as possible and those with a small square. I absolutely agree with that finding here is a mass of examples especially for us down here that we are facing tourism, that people with small parcels have certain financial benefits by producing seasonal fruits and vegetables, and in this context I am asking a question and I am interested in your opinion of what about those unprocessed land that borders with those that are processed, and here often for legitimate reasons or people owners have aged. Most of the time, it's done the way I told the passive ends, we know the law. It's private property. Here is your opinion of what to do, for such farmed land certainly do harm to those who farm the land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97542	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97543	Well, here's the deal with you on the beach is going to be particularly painful because if you have a little bit closer, and you get a little further along normally that's going to be a problem. As regards this unprocessed, unknown owners, the inaccessible owners of the Croatian Peasant Party, a few years ago, had a bill that such land of unknown or unavailable owners would be rented to those interested in some kind of tender and that the funds would be kept on account for a year if the owner showed up to pay him off, meaning from the rent that the state would determine. And if he doesn't show up and ask for those funds, they're being put into the Agricultural Land Cruising Fund. Unfortunately, the law fell in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97544	And the replica has a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97545	Your Honor, in your presentation, you said that someone would be a stepmom, and someone would be a mother. Above us in Zagorje when you look at agricultural areas are not large and some farmer or family economy that has 2, 3, 5 hectares you can hardly find. I have a friend who handles a lot of hectares, has a lot of parcels, and it would be very helpful to him because he travels 20, 30 km with a tractor to some plot so he can process it, so he can use it at home on his cow farm afterwards. So we need to put this little bit in place so we can maybe give some suggestions... Because clearly the criteria are quite different in Slavonia and Zagorje and in other parts of our land where the parcels are much less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97546	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97547	My colleague Pavić you are right, so there are regions in Croatia that do not have state land much more than something perhaps little. It all comes down to private parcels that were depreciated and then producers who developed their production took land in a far larger circle than would be normal, but were forced to do so because in order to satisfy their capacities that they needed especially for cattle had to use what they had. Land prices are largely higher in these regions than in Slavonia and other regions where there were more national agricultural land, so the appetites were calmed down through this. I think that the state should also have some kind of plan to stimulate or stimulate the sale of land that people don't use. But I think it's a matter of working out, and there's a lot of possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97548	Now, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97549	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear minister, secretary of state. Like any debate in the Croatian Parliament, when it comes to agriculture, there are two half-times when it comes to dissipating the minister, the ministry, everything that happens in agriculture and the second half that nobody is really interested in, absolutely nor the parliamentary representatives, nor those who even sit in the Committee on Agriculture because it is clear. This part is uninteresting because it's gone, the cameras went somewhere else, and we're left here, which is something that's somewhat interesting for two reasons. First because we are sitting in the Croatian Parliament, and it is our duty, and on the other hand, because we come from the region, or from the area where agriculture is still an economic branch that generates one part of the gross social product. As far as the Law of Cooperation is concerned, we have heard everything here, and I think that both left and right we agree and yellow and black about the fact that without cohesion, without orderly land, there is no successful agriculture, and that is clear to the laymen and not only to the professions. Well, that's just part of the problem we're trying to solve, and unfortunately we haven't solved it. I'll read it for a few years. In 1890, 1902, 1954 and 1979. These are four years when there was a co-operation in the space and even the then state of Croatia, and since then we haven't done much in this regard. But there are two different problems. One is that certain units of local self-government were absolutely doing nothing, they were not interested in it at all. And the other part of this problem is that we didn't have a law that says much more clearly how we're going to do it compared to the 2015 law. And let's be honest now we have that 300 million kuna at our disposal, these 250 million from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which let's be honest with the national budget aren't small funds. Hence, there are several of these problems that we must face and deal with. Of course, agriculture is all seen as something that should be an economic branch in the Republic of Croatia that will bring a gross domestic product, so I would say in a much larger percentage than it is now. Although it is on the European average, it means 3.6% makes agriculture in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia as much as your European average. Nothing that matters to us is behind Europe when it comes to it. So where are we behind? We're behind in that part where we need that added value. We have a problem here. But we don't have a problem here because we don't have enough agronomies. But we have a problem here because the harvest is big, and the worker is small. That's the problem we'll face sooner or later. It's not a problem for the agronomist to say that this parcel is suitable for tomatoes, but having a hectare of tomatoes, two acres of tomatoes under the plastic, a greenhouse is not very simple when we talk about pollinators about everything that requires dynamics 1/1. I do, and I like to speak from an example, and here's Stipa, and in the area of his community there's a great man who's just growing a tomato homemade, he's sold everything. No problem with the plasma, no problem with anything. You know what the problem is? With the workers. He can't find enough workers to do a job that needs to be done that day and that watch. That's what we need to talk about. He pays well, he's not here, he's not a half criminal, he's not a criminal, he's a wonderful man whose whole family does it. But he's got a problem, and he's gonna have some Nepali coming in soon through some agency and he's gonna be working. Therefore, the problem of agriculture is very complex and I would say that both Minister and Marianne as chairman of the parent board at least as far as I am here, and here I am for a year and a half, the focus of agriculture is put in real light with another light, which is what to see that end or to see the beginning of that tunnel in which we should enter. Therefore, only together can we raise Croatia's agriculture to the place it belonged to and which it once had, but let's be honest, there were much more of us then, and then agriculture was quite different structured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97550	Replica has the first respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97551	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, here we are today talking about the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land, we are actually talking about rounding up certain agricultural land. However, it is extremely important that the result of this law should be made available to and parts of land which are not available, which are not processed and that, in this way, the exploitation of all our agricultural areas would be much higher, so that agricultural machinery, which makes Slavonian farmers and throughout Croatia more economically available, also more efficient, in order to introduce and build water supply systems and irrigation systems, would increase the far-reaching value of the land itself, so that all of this should result in greater productivity, but also greater labour value, and that our potentials mean, together with current farmers and potentials, those interested showed an even greater interest in the production of food on our products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97552	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97553	Thank you very much. It's all listed, of course it's not the same many MPs here talked about and who deal in part with agriculture is not the same with one tractor being on one plot or with the same tractor to come to 5 different plots that are distanced from each other by 3, 5, 8 kilometers. Not to talk today, machines are quite different, today they're not as combined as they were 30 years ago with a 2.4-metre hair procedure, but they're combined with a procedure of 6,5, 7 and 8 meters, so they need big parcels. Irrigation especially, we can't irrigate on 5 different parcels, pull infrastructure, we need one parcel over which we're going to do it. And therefore this law, first reading, is the minister's initial statement that everything she sees is useful, that it's good, to improve this law although she's willing to cooperate. Therefore We're going towards that goal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97554	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97555	Dear counterpart Ivanovic, therefore, there were talks in this debate today on the availability of agricultural, state-owned agricultural land in the area of Baranja. So, we all know that the state there invested a lot, that it circled, that even authorized a few OPGs that were intruding in this process of rounding up properties that ultimately seemed to have ended up in the hands of foreigners. Do you know who manages about 36 areas so much as mentions that 36,000 acres? Who collects support for this part of Croatia's most fertile quality plain? Who makes a profit on this land is there a lot of controversy in the public? Also, I have time to ask you if you consider this a potential problem to come... Don't give God certain war threats on the other side of the border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who would defend that part of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97556	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97557	Thank you very much. I'll answer to this first part of you when I'm president of the Fortano administration and I'll be glad to be able to answer that, because it's much better than being a parliamentary representative. I don't know, I know how much Fortan's group is working in Baranja, how much of it is theirs that they bought I wouldn't want to bid with numbers. What I certainly know, and the minister made it clear this morning is the Croatian country. So it's owned by the Republic of Croatia. That land they got to manage to do, what they bought private ok, they bought from some private individuals. And as for this other one, I'd like to ask you another question that, once in a while, I'd like to put it in the right place. We don't have lefts or rights here, so I think we're all okay with that. And I would love that powerful Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Croatia Zagora, that, that's all our country That's what our grandfathers got, so let's not waste it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97558	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97559	Dear colleague Ivanovic, you mentioned the agronomist issue. We've had agronomials, we've got them today, but it's getting smaller. This Croatian state, when it became independent, inherited the PICs in which the agronomists worked and implemented what was transferred from the university and then someone by similarity disbanded the PICs and divided their friends, known to the country, you know how it went and I am responsible for that because I remember these times. And then simply those who took that country no longer needed agronomies. I used to work at one of those, I was a tractor, I was an agronomist, I was driving goods to a store, coffee shop, oil for machines and stuff. So I wasn't supposed to be an agronomist. I was admitted as a middle expert. Agronomies have fled to something completely different and today more agronomia is not desirable after all these 30 years of failed agriculture is not an agronomial desirable to enroll it and to study agriculture and to be respected by agronomics because more agronomics is no longer respected than it turns out to be of lower value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97560	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97561	Well, I'll take it part. And you're on your own today doing your job. In that system until the '90s, it was impossible for you to be an agronomist in the PIC and to do some private work of your own, your own country. So that's where I see that perspective for, for the profession. As far as the Faculty of Bioagritechnical Sciences in Osijek is concerned, he is doing well, the ministry made a decision two years ago at the time of Minister Tolusic that every student of 2, 3, 4 and 5 years will be scholarshipd with 1,000 kuna, which I think is a great decision, the ministry is now applying that decision. So it's going to be the agronomial. There is no successful agriculture without people who have been trained to know everything about agrotechnics, agroculture, fertility and other things that are absolutely important to farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97562	Dear Representative Petyr, we're not going to get used to it, are we? Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97563	Thank you, Mr. President. We recently held a thematic session in Osijek where we discussed the impact of climate change on agricultural production, so we came up with data that from 2013 to 2016 the damage caused only by droughts to agricultural crops amounted to 3 billion kuna. So 43% of the total amount of direct payments is huge. There we visited some examples of good practice, including plastic production in Baranja. What we have noticed besides what you mentioned is that the problem of the workforce that the owner was talking about is also the problem of using the production of renewable energy sources on its own economy because there are locations of thermal water that could be put into operation and round the entire production and reduce the important costs and impact on the environment, but there are still things stuck. Do you have any positive information since your last visit to the economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97564	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97565	Thank you very much. Yeah, that's how it should be. Once it's dead, the other one's dead. And that should be in this part right now. Geothermal sources and renewable energy sources are the future of agriculture that will increasingly face these changes that are global. Slavonia feels them now. I'll repeat that information. I think it's important. By 1991, in the winter season of wheat, the corn of everything else fell 690 liters [690 L] of rain. Now since '91. By 2021, it's only 360 liters of rain. So 50% less rain falls in the same vegetation period. So let's be aware of global changes, but also be aware that we help people from renewable sources do what we shouldn't do to administrative barriers. To defend. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97566	The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, I don't see him, he loses his right to speak, and then next, he will speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97567	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Reiner, respected and respected ministers along with his fellow Members, respected colleagues, colleagues, land membership, so I said before the Minister but I would really like to say it several times here in the Croatian Parliament at the end, and when SDP proposed something good, there was this Executive Law that some of us supported him personally as MOST's and I would like to give some decree. If I had the decree and that magic power, the magic wand to succeed, I'd say the third happiness, you'd get the gold to succeed, and let's really not have the fourth happiness, the fifth or so. However, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia still need a little awareness of the whole situation. In 2009, a strategic one document on the rounding up of agricultural land was adopted. We didn't celebrate, so in 2015 the famous one was adopted under the alleged signs of Jacob's pre-election Law on Co-operations of Boja was not even celebrated. And here I hope it is, Godspeed third. Now, he'll be there soon enough, we'll all see each other together. What is very important to us MOSTs is that we should always go and be focused on the small, medium-sized farmers. So, we're afraid that again it doesn't happen that some similar big, we know when it was around the land, that I'll talk about it especially when that topic comes, where again the best land gets some who are closer to the fire if it isn't, and then they turn millions there, the owners are from Baranja to Istria land, and the little wolf ate the donkeys whether. So we must be careful that even when it is carried out to be truly righteous or as fairer and fairer as possible. But I'd like the secretary here as I like to watch a little bit wider so let's say, a wider picture, a piece we absolutely need and it's not disputed. But I was thinking other than the agricultural efficiency that this commission specifically helps us to think visionaryly about revitalising the village. Our villages are the key to my people. So, self-sufficiency, key. So, the key to the life of the Republic of Croatia. I'll be plastic. To happen that we have a demographic growth where these people will live? In Zagreb, let my Zagrebers forgive me, in Zagreb, so there, so people went crazy, man-squared flat 4,000 euros, so who wants to eat crazy mushrooms, so who's going to pay for it, who can pay for it? So, we must, we must drive the villages. That's very important. That's the vision. So if you're going to the agricultural land, let's think about what to do to bring the villages back to life. That our citizens want to come to live in the country, not to flee the village like we're half empty Slavonia and all of our areas. So our villages are crucial to our survival. I'm serious. We also need to think about what these projects would be, and then settle them in displaced areas because otherwise what could happen. We can get huge agricultural areas that can become, so I don't know how to release production zones, which we don't want to do. All of us here know water, energy and food are key topics for the next 20 years. We see what time we live in. So water, energy and food. We MOSTs will do everything we can to raise the water at the level of constitutionality. It's our new plan and project. So we'll protect the water, we'll do everything we can to protect it, and we'll make it work. We and the projects we start bring an end. And we're doing it, and we're gonna do it in terms of water. Energy, we were talking about green policies here. Of course, the green policy, of course, but we are open to nuclear energy and all those energies that will safeguard the survival of our citizens and our people. And food. Key themes. Croatia must go towards its self-sufficiency. Dr. Sc. Hrvoje Kutnjak from the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zagreb, says we have countries to feed for more than 11 million people. Well, gentlemen, I don't want to point a finger at anyone. Why for 30 years someone who runs the country or something less failed at this, failed at that, the Minister of Energy is there, hit as hard as we can and do everything we can. People, I'm serious. To raise our agriculture and our country's self-sufficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97568	The Republic has a respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97569	Dear Mr. Miletic imagine you are in the position of the minister, here you are now sitting there and ordering an elaborate from the Oicon Institute for Applied Ecology, which presents the results and where you have state-owned unprocessing land somewhere around 460,000 hectares, you have private land and when you add it all up, you get some 700 to 750,000 hectares. And now that you would answer this broken strategically, as our minister replied, or would really give an exact answer, the right answer to get exactly how unsatisfactory this land really is in Croatia so that we could look at both property legal relations and then plan production and go in this direction to feed 11 million people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97570	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97571	I'm lucky if I set up a minister these guys would hide everything in my drawers, for two years you wouldn't know where to hide what it is, you'd have to have the investigating bodies clean by the time I get by, but by nature I'm resourceful, so I believe that after a few months to make it work, that people would love me, and that they'd be able to work very well. I'm kidding a little bit, but I'm actually kidding about it. So, I really don't now because the minister here, so now I'm about to know that what you see is what you get, at my place, I don't think it's easy to be in any of this excellent position, but that's why she's here and that's why we're criticizing her, but we're also saying what we think might be better if it makes sense somehow, I mean when you're where you are. Yes, my colleague Troscott, we asked the minister in the debates and I personally asked her in the replica exactly so that once we could finish talking about 700, is 500, is 100, is 20, to tell us exactly how much and then to be alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97572	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97573	In Dalmatia alone, we have 200,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. And this isn't a correction, it's a fact. Only in Dalmatia that it has been processed, a fertile country in Dalmatia can feed 11 million people. In total, Croatia has 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land. The village is literally burned, it doesn't exist. Stjepan Radic said Velke rici counterpart Miletic, minister, co-worker and co-worker, without a rich village, no state, no cities. What did we do to that village? The largest importers in, per capita in the EU, are Croatia, and the country's agricultural ecologically preserved lies in our weeds. And those are the facts. Our triba now, model the earth and plant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97574	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97575	My friend Bulj, I'm a born Riverain, I live in the city, but to forgive you, I really think people are healthier, so don't mind if I don't get hit by a rock when I'm on the road, in the country. I think people are healthier mentally and physically. I don't think it's natural for a man to live in a cage his whole life and be locked up in 29 squares like we have this misery out there living in an apartment like an advocate. I think it's natural when a man comes out to the fresh air, when he digs his country a little bit, listen to me fellow Bull, I answer to you, fellow Bull, I answer to you, so when a man has his own land which you know as mayor and as one who has done a lot for his people Sinj and Sinj province. And that's why once again, the whole area down there, and that's why I really think it's important for people to do everything we can to raise our villages. We'll all be healthier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97576	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97577	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Miletic, you have touched several important topics in your presentation. I can tell you responsibly that in Slavonia there is not enough land to be prepared and processed, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, looking at me by my colleague Shaslin here so that I do not leave it out, here I am this morning from Slavonia, people are working but you have touched what is very important, and that is why our village is extinct and therefore this topic is also important today because the membership is the prerequisite that could be better quality of living in rural areas because these empty villages, and some estimate that there are even 100,000 houses in Slavonia and Baranja that are empty, which is now truly worrying and the security problem, and I think that it really needs to be taken seriously because That's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on a higher level. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97578	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97579	Thank you, colleague Vucilovic, for this question. It's actually very simple. So, if we keep running politics like this for 20 years, I guess gentlemen come up with those 20 years, but in 20 years, no one's gonna have to pay us back, we're not gonna think the demographics are a complex, complex story. So who's going to fill the budget with what, who's going to work? So that's why I really think that's what... that it is necessary to raise total confusion all together to gather heads and see which laws and what we can launch which processes to raise demographics first and bring the other back to life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you have a pandemic, no man when the village all works. The village is healthy, it's good to be there, it's good to live there, but we have to create conditions, of course, we have to create conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97580	Now will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97581	As I said in the replica, I will always quote Stjepan Radic, without rich villages there is no rich state. He can't and he can't or whatever you want to be the other way around. Right now, the ministers are in crisis, we've got re-communications means fuel, repromaterials, artificial fertilisers. I expected us to get measures. I, as a local leader, will get the measure from you so that I can legally give farmers artificial fertilisers as quickly as possible if they don't have stables. For what? Because tomorrow will be too late. It's planting time. And we see what the crisis is. Let only 7 days close the border, regardless of why we call on Schengen, they will not care about Germany, Italy, and Austria, all of them will look at their half and their inhabitants. We won't be self-sufficient. That's what I've been talking about for years. To us is a sacred agricultural land, it is sacred soil. I was raised on that earth, passed by my mother she... Mother, they went to Slavonia in Vrbanja... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the '20s, last century and later during World War II, after World War II to bathe to see that country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that stingy country, people survived. And when we talk about fields in Zagora in the back, talking about a clean PR is an absolute failure. In Dalmatia and less surfaces can bring extra value to people. After privatising everything destroyed in free Croatia, in my Croatia where I go to the Homeland War, me and other my peers are older. The field of Sinjsko was being processed, and in free Croatia it is increasingly being processed and I will try. My first moves were to raise 45% incentivise farmers from that city of Sinj budget. As far as the Dalmatian burns down the largest city. What's our land? Everything. How much did you quote in your mandate? The prime minister here said he would irrigate twice as much as he is right now. Do you know how much it's watered down in the Republic of Croatia? Somewhere around 7,000 acres, I think, a little bit more, don't you think? So you're going to name three and a half thousand acres. That's those phrases. Earth is everything to us. The earth is sacred. We were left in an amannet for her to shed blood. How we treat this country, the weeds, the empty village, the empty hearth. Three times we've been through the Law of Compassion. And what does this law bring? Some oxen as well as in wars, and someone will give their sons to be slaves and to dig up someone else in his domain if we continue like this. And that's why I gave the minister the law in the procedure in the 7th month, foreign, foreigners can buy agricultural land. If Hungarians say that legal and natural persons, except Hungarians, cannot buy this agricultural land for any reason, there is no reason that this home, the largest home, the people's home, at this historic moment of self-sufficiency and the importance of the threat of not finding the top political around our national security, two hills like Lolek and Bolek behave. You don't know if there was explosives on some plane... Hey, you're doing a circus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A circus in very difficult times. Imagine it's the '90s. For years, this has been Dr. Franjo Tudjman like now two hills behave. I've been a young man, I've taken a gun, I've got to be alone at some point, and I've been ignoring people at a much harder time than we are right now. What would these people say now? Tudjman, Šushak, those who took responsibility for the survival of the people in those areas. Shame on both the hills, all the ministries, this is a harbinger over the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97582	Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much, you're a little carried out, you're too out of the picture, and you don't see that you have replicas. Dear Representative Troscott first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97583	Dear fellow Bull, my first question is brief. What you have managed to do about the Blue Fields since you've been mayor of Sinj and others, perhaps you should really look well at all these things that you've instructed in terms of all these strategies, commissions, laws, so all of this passing from law to law and strategy to strategy may be good, and then we'll make it even more complicated at the local level, and then really that stranger will not come to Croatia after 30.6.2022. and buy that land. Here's what might really need to be seen positively to make it even more complicated, so here's how we protect our land. Here maybe we should really see that the strategy is behind it and that we want to protect our land through such ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97584	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97585	Thank you very much for bringing this subject back, and since I was warned by a knight of Jerusalem's grave that I ran off topic, I'm a man who doesn't read. I'm going to go, who isn't, write him a letter, so he's saying yes, I'm talking from the heart, maybe even emotionally sometimes. So as mayor of Sinja, I immediately increased my support for farmers, a public debate passed, will be on the next city council by 45%, from 700 thousand kuna to millions of kuna. That's what we can do at this point, and I'm going to increase it if it's such an interest, and as a councilman, I suggested it with this club, and it went in as a programme for the town of Sinja for farmers. I'll do my best to process that country. I'll be texting, here I was at City Hall yesterday by 5:00, I came home, around the house wasn't cut, I went to the hair, and I cut last night until 10:00, and here I am. Today, my family and around the house will plant potatoes, chapels, and all the tribunes. That's why we all plant a phone call and model our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97586	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97587	Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, by reading the provisions of this bill as set out in this proposal, it may happen, for example, that small family gardens end in the conflicting thunder. I know that you work in the garden, and then you know how many people who work in their gardens actually benefit from it, but how much effort they put into it and how emotionally connected they are to their gardens. Is that okay, are we really supposed to watch small family gardens, preserve and not allow them to be part of a commission or someone of greater, wider and greater interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97588	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97589	They'd give us jackets with us if they could. That's the obvious goal. Of course, people mainly in my area and those who work have the added value to deal with their gardens, countries that have a farm value, and that is their additional value and healthy food products in this area for their family, and that is a very important income for them. That's why we're going to be, not just say we bring the commission, you state your interest, give me the law, and you know what they did when thousands of employees, agricultural agencies, these when they didn't do anything, and now it's time for local self-government, and we're going to transfer everything to the county. State offices have been transferred to the county, billions of girls to that facility, the brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia, mainly my Dalmatia. One hundred thousand fewer people in Split-Dalmatia County since its founding... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97590	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97591	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. Here is Mr. Ivanovic, during his presentation, mentioned two half-times or expressed himself in a football dictionary, but unfortunately for you and three half-times, not even the shooting of a pen is enough because, therefore, the facts are on the other side. So fact number one, so today when you look at and you calculate a minimum here someone will come up with some other numbers, but a minimum of 500 thousand football fields is untapped land agricultural, so minimal. Fact number two, when you take the average yield, so on that, on unprocessed agricultural land you lose approximately 14 thousand kuna depending on what you grow, you actually get that at the annual level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the rest of the ministry that represents it loses around 2 and a half Pelješka bridge, which means that in one term we have a loss of 10 Peljeske bridges. So great, you build one you lose 10. The third fact is the minister wasn't exactly telling the truth, so there was an encampment, a company called OICON came. It's the Institute of Applied Ecology, the results and management figures were presented there, not to name now, but if necessary, and I'm going to do so, they presented exactly the number we said of unused land. So, since the ministry can't have this initiative from the same, same association or institute, so "Let's Zaori Croatian Fields". So it's an initiative supported by agronomies, professors, experts and entrepreneurs, where one strategy started to make as much agricultural land as possible. So if you look at it like this today, the Minister said that she's in office for two and a half years, mathematically alone, it's a loss of six to seven Peljecan bridges that we haven't even started. Fact 4 from 2009 to 2021 We have a program and a strategy to round up agricultural land, and that's what harvests happened, some say that. Since 2015, we can also call the Rounding Act what you will now, but the background is always the same, the result again of the harvests. So, the government has already had the opportunity to withdraw 300 million kunas, now we see that it will be withdrawn somewhere around 400 million kunas, so 700 million kuna, and actually nothing is happening. What I believe is what has particularly affected my colleague Bulja and why he has had such a worse performance from the context of agriculture is the fact that the Yugoslav bureaucracy has made more of a combination of agricultural land than Croatia has made of its draft. Now, what are the conclusions? The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 1 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia with this resolution ministry does not care about agriculture, and I can prove it for the reason that I remember my colleague Bulj being among the first to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister to send an application to the EU to extend the moratorium to agricultural land. You know when we sent it? Last day. Well, I guess you're not sending your last day of appeal to extend the moratorium. Point No. 2, today when the minister said this law would be effective and effective, I was truly frozen because the same rhetoric was mentioned for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb which is my city and where I was born and for Banovići, therefore a very sensitive area in the Republic of Croatia effectively, effectively. Watch where we are. I point No. Three, so we don't just talk negative. So, along with all these conversations with all these strategies, with the transition from hollow to empty, it's just enough to go to Slavonski Brod, you don't need to go any further. So with the current legal infrastructure, so the frameworks that we have you have a school called Mattius Anthony Reljkovic's High School, which used pre-accession funds, it built a school where today's students know more about agriculture than the minister does today. Em knows how to do it, how to pack, how to place the product. The Danes, the Dutch, the Swedes came to watch the way the school is developed today, which even one laboratory today, so they are now making contracts with young entrepreneurs in the county and developing that county and transferring knowledge to other parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97592	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97593	Thank you very much. Not only did I say the ban on selling agricultural land but I made a proposal for a law that did not come into the process, but you said exactly the last days have expired the minister sent a request to the EU. I repeat again, and now it's in the process, for more than a year, my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land because from the 7th month of the end of the 6th year, foreigners will buy us what they can buy. Everything that's been done by the combination that's been arranged, which is pure property will buy us everything because we've done everything, our import policies that suit only the gliphosate producers and GMO products, and that's Monsantu they've done everything to import, and we don't produce domestic production, even the seeds we've calibrated, even the onions we need to be the same as Chinese dimensions, so they've all made them move our peasants and destroy our production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97594	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97595	Dear fellow Bull, I can understand your argument from the state's self-sufficiency position. Let's just say today's laugh by the minister here wasn't clear today. And you know why? When you look at a Saudi Arabia that doesn't have the wealth that we have, you have the fact that people buy agricultural land in Sudan and Somalia. Israel does not have any agricultural land growing mangoes and freshwater fish in the Negev deserts, and we are waiting for the last day to send the EU an appeal and a request to extend the moratorium to protect our agricultural land. Here are the people laughing at it, Israel is not funny, Saudi Arabia is not a bit funny, and it's not funny to our students in Slavonski Brod who, along with all this legal framework, have therefore made an entrepreneurial zone of therefore raising young OPGs and know absolutely everything from the very beginning to marketing and placing products on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97596	Dear Representative Zekanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97597	Dear colleague Troscott, I'm listening to you very carefully, so I'd like you to answer my simple question, what is the commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97598	Okay, lapus linguae so rounding the land. I know what you asked me but the lapsus linguae in the exhibition itself, if only the lapus linguae was something to you on the whole point of speech then the whole problem that we have about agricultural land and that villages are falling apart then we have a problem. So, I think it's much more important to talk about strategies than to grab on to lapus linguae.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97599	Dear Representative Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97600	Your Honor, we often have mistakes in our pronunciation, and we don't need to take it for evil, important that we know what we're talking about, and we know what the subject is, so we shouldn't talk about it right now. I wanted to ask you a question about Israel, since we know where Israel is, we know how it works, and we know how much agricultural production there is. Secondly, I wanted to ask you if you are aware of Mr. Bulj that our agricultural land can also be bought by our citizens who have never set foot in the territory of Croatia. They've got citizenship, they've got our passport, they've never been here, but they can buy that property for other people's interests because they're not interested in coming here and doing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97601	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97602	Dear colleague Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97603	Although it all comes out of the question, of course, but please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97604	I went back to the topic so that Israel did not deal with such things, so he went into the strategy for the development of agriculture to the point of exporting today, and they do not have the kind of wealth that we have. So we have a wealth of water, and we have a problem with that. So, when a strategy is done, it is not legal frameworks that are passed, spilling from hollow to empty from one mandate to another, but starting systematically with problem solving. And the biggest problem, that is, is to increase production, to make these products high quality and at the end of the day that we can place these products, em on the market here our internal Croatian, em on the EU market where large quantities of agricultural products are exported. And that's the key. And since we have that wealth, I think it's one of our comparative advantages where, with the IT industry, we can get out of this Dutch disease called tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97605	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected agriculture minister, Marija Vuckovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97606	Thank you very much. So, once again today, I'm going to deny the allegations of representatives of MOST who are untrue that that's how I was told this morning to order a study on abandoned land from Oicon. After that, did Agent Petrov change that you've never heard of Oicon? Which I didn't say because it wasn't a question. After that, MP Troscott also changed, said the Ministry of Agriculture had ordered some study from Oicon. It's possible that, of course, I've heard of Oicon, of course he was doing something for the ministry at different stages as far as I know. But I'll repeat, I didn't order a study on Oicon's abandoned agricultural land. And that I laughed because to me as a man it was an incredible distortion, but I agree I shouldn't have laughed, it's very serious. Second, abandoned agricultural land, and this morning, MOST left 700 000, so we came to 400, 460 etc. It is difficult to determine exactly the abandoned agricultural land but we have launched audits from the forest-economic base because part of that land has passed over the decades and years into the forest-economic base. I did not say that the state 460,000 ha is not used, but I said that our estimates are that the state agricultural land that is not in the forest-economic base is 460,000, that we have available programmes for about 300 and is used in different forms of lease agreements based on leases, concessions, long-term leases or temporary contracts of about 250 000. I checked today's number, it's now 265,000 ha. That's what I said. There are slightly more than 170 000 ha in the ARCOD, so the remaining land is private, and the State Statistics Office runs about a million and a half hectares because the rest is about parcels that do not have the right to enter the ARCOD. As far as the imports are concerned, and the story here is that the last day we filed a moratorium application, it's a complete lie. We put up with it about seven months before it expired, as I remember in November, because I started operating as a secretary of state. There was talk here that we wouldn't get that moratorium. We have taken this seriously, and we have made a decision, not our request, but a decision of twenty days before it expires as usual. The request cannot be submitted two, three years before it expires because then we have no grounds for reason. The reasons are based on an analysis of the whole period. We'll learn!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97607	Stay, Madam Minister, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97608	I must agree with you that it is difficult to assess how much unprocessed agricultural land we have. Last year's data from Glas Slavonia in July and based on some discussion conducted there and based on an assessment of experts, there were around 400,000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land in Slavonia. So those were the estimates from the seventh month last year. What is the problem, we have a very large number of unprocessed parcels in Dalmatia, a very large number of agricultural parcels in Zagorje, so in areas where these parcels can never be rounded up because of real problems and objective problems. If we look at it from another aspect today, I think we should do something about that law that didn't go very well, which is the Unprocessed Agricultural Land Act. We should do something about it and see how to solve it so that it all has to work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97609	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97610	So I believe that everyone here intends to make proposals so that abandoned agricultural land can be better activated and there's plenty of space. Some solutions have also been offered in the existing Agricultural Land Act, very little has been used. However, what is our first step very soon to respond to is a more serious assessment of how much of this abandoned private, how much of what we can do from a forest-economic base without hurting the legal gain and green architecture that we have to satisfy and is related to the forest and forest eco system. And we're working on it together with professional services, along with the HAPH soil Centro, and that's part of this job, but also wider, and we really should've done it before, but we've done a little bit of it. We are obliged to assess it more objectively and seriously more seriously and in terms of private, it is really difficult and we will do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97611	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97612	Dear Minister, here may be the first one in the beginning, here's a moment ago I resented my colleague Troscott for making a lapus but okay. It wasn't the lapus, it was the whole Oicon study story that turned out to be the main subject of the whole debate today, and it shouldn't be. It's a solid bill, and on my part, this bill will have support, I just hope it will be implemented. And what you've just pointed out in response to the replica is the problem that is important and crucial, it's private land, how these commissions are going to work and what are instruments, what are the ways. In fact, it's the whole thing, even though it's partly explained here, that's what I'm worried about, and I don't know if the ministry or the state here is going to be able to jump into the commission itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97613	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97614	About the interest and the fact that the units of local self-government, or those who made the public call, have also offered drafts of ideas among other things, I am quite convinced that we will fully implement our reform measure, that it will be carried out in time, and of course we should try to spread it because it is not enough. These 18,000 hectares, I'm pretty sure, given the ideas that have already come in the form of a draft, given the work with the State Geodetic Administration, since we're already doing regulations, I've been preparing public calls for geodetics, the information system, and I'm pretty sure that we of these offered 46,600 will choose the ones that we can quickly combine, and then we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97615	Thank you very much. We will now return to an individual debate, thank you to the minister in place. Dear Representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97616	How important this debate that has been going on for several hours, and it will certainly take some time. To us who come from Slavonia this law is very important. At a time of unfortunately this Covid crisis, the war in Ukraine is all about agricultural, food production and its sufficientness. The efficient use of agricultural land on a large part of the area is limited precisely because of narrowed and mutually remote working surfaces. About 160,000 agricultural holdings with an average area of 6.7 hectares were registered in Croatia. It is therefore necessary to access the land rounding process which will contribute to efficiency, higher yields and lower costs for farmers. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is a natural resource and must be taken into account for its long-term sustainability. The sale and monitoring of agricultural land creates preconditions for resolving property legal issues that many of my predecessors have addressed. It will join the construction of agricultural roads and channels where they are not available, but most importantly will be implemented, productivity will increase, quality of life will be improved, emigration from rural areas will be reduced, which is most important to me because the demographic image across the EU is bad. The productivity of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is 31% of the EU average, and the average was only 20% back in the few years, as the minister said this morning. The current law is from 2015 and has not received some results and is the government, and the government has decided to draft a more effective law, a law that will facilitate the process and speed up co-operation. Meanwhile, the interests of local particle circlers have been increased. The new law would reduce administrative barriers, allow for feasibility and speed up procedures. The creation of this law was attended by relevant experts from the scientific community, the Ministry of Administration and Justice, the State Geodetic Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture. An invitation was made to, the Ministry of Agriculture to express its participation in this procedure and received 28 applications, one of them being one of the municipalities of my county of Gundinci. This measure plans to carry out a commission on 18,000 hectares of agricultural land. The funds to be invested from the state budget and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan are more than 300 million kuna, which is certainly one commendable amount. Surrounded and decorated tables to family economies would guarantee time savings as well as money. It is commendable that after the land is comassed, or this increase, there is no division of it or the separation of these parcels for 99 years, which is certainly something to be commended. Realising that this is not an easy and easy job waiting for units of local self-government and ministry to be implemented in the first round until 2026 for these 28 units reported, but of course every support for this, to make and implement this new law. In addition to this law, but also all the measures that this ministry and government have sent to our fellow citizens and farmers, this may be an opportunity to increase agricultural areas, to keep young people on their grandfathers, and of course here my predecessors have looked back at Matija Antun Reljković's secondary school from Slavonski Brod and I would also praise her but also the Regional Centre for Biotechnology Research and Development, which certainly gives its pain and assistance to farmers in the area of Brod-Posavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97617	The next debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97618	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with colleagues and colleagues, I have a few questions for you, and perhaps before I move on to the very subject of communication that I can only conclude something. Those who followed the little session here and the prime minister's statements probably noticed those questions I asked about energy and food when it came to the Ukraine declaration. After a week, two of them were discussed by the prime minister and his associates in, at the level of Europe, and now we were at a conference in Paris where we talked about the strategic economic economy. I didn't get any answers here. I hope that today I will get at least one part of the answer from you about this because I asked the prime minister if an initiative was launched in the ministry to give additional incentives to farmers for... planting, or for spring sowing, since this is not exactly going according to plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that farmers bought a portion of the fertiliser earlier and that some managed to secure that fertiliser and seed material, but most of them did not. Now let's move on to, let's get on with it. I think we can all agree here that the commission won't contribute to the processing of more hectares than it's ever been till now. We can agree that it may be slightly cheaper for some, but the question remains with the 400,000 hectares in Slavonia of unprocessed agricultural land. Among other things, it says in this law that they can be accessed by owners and owners. Now, if you look at some land books and look at a little catastre, then you'll see that it's as different as the sky and the earth, especially in Dalmatia and especially in ours, our Zagorje where the parcels are small. How do you mean to solve it, so that's my question, how do you think it's settled, given that you wrote that you can access both the owners and the owners? What happens if, after the commission, the owner who was not aware of what knee was absent from the country and didn't know that there was going to be a commission, and the business was approached by the owner? After that, I have another question, namely in the criminal provisions there, it says that some amount of money will be punished by a legal person who interferes with the introduction of a participant in the property. What are the legal entities that can prevent this, if you can explain a little to us, so that someone can prevent what the legislator has made, adopt and resolve, and have a solution for it? Next, I'll tell you what it looks like in Zagorje. There was a gentleman from Dalmatia, so he said there would be problems in Dalmatia, there would be problems in Zagorje. Here's one of my famous, my friend handles 40 acres of land, and he handles 100 parcels, means 100 parcels, and to some plots he travels 20 miles and more, of course, he travels because he needs the land. It's an OPG and everyone's working on that OPG and everybody's living off that economy. And, of course, since he's going through several, several municipalities and one city up to some plots, I think it would be good to explain how it's meant to make that commission run, given that these people out there in some municipality have plots near my colleague, so it might be interesting how you think to explain it, given that the law doesn't say it. And once again, let me refer to the exposure of this colleague of ours, who found that the land sold to foreign owners, foreigners, is specifically to the Russians, is a Croatian country. So if it's a Croatian country, then, gentlemen dear, order them to sow and plant there what we need and sell it, to sell it to those we tell them if possible. We also have Croatian oil, but this Croatian oil is still exported to Hungary, and it is not processed in our river. Therefore, forget that flossula that it is still Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97619	We have a replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97620	Dear fellow Pavic, here you have noticed a technical problem that is quite large, and this is a problem of ownership and ownership of the land itself, and you have now mentioned an example of your colleague who has said 20 hectares and 100 plots even which is actually amazing. If he wanted to enter into this process of co-composition, that is to say, that is to say, if I'm not mistaken, the law says that his possessions are to enter and whether he should have defined property or property on every particle and what if on some particle that's common I'm going to say and almost always have such property, for example. on the late great-grandfather or has 300 owners, as part of the commission, is it really a prerequisite to solve the ownership books so that they could even move into this process?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97621	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97622	Thank you for asking me, I'm sorry, thank you for asking me that question to further explain. In fact, it's about ours, here in Dalmatia, specifically in Zagorje you have people who are in third generation, fourth generation owners of a country, but the owner is still the one there four generations ago and how to untangle it and drag it out that's a big question. So ownership is one thing, it's someone's processing at the moment, but if the heir shows up, the legal heir who's actually then and the owner of that land is the question, it's also a question for the minister how we're going to solve it, these are serious problems. We also have problems that are specifically in Dalmatia. People have traveled out of the country and are no longer interested in this land until someone reminds them that this land is near the sea or in an area where it can be sold well. That's why he's down in Dalmatia, and he's not. There's no interest in rounding up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97623	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97624	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates and respected colleagues and colleagues. So, the law I said was fine, but here's how much I was able to read this is a key problem that my colleague Pavic pointed out. I don't know how to jump it or you'll go into business only where it's absolutely solved, solved property relations because what my colleague said I'll repeat you in my own way. Tomorrow someone goes through the process of composing, gets for their 100 parcels one round plot of 20 hectares and theoretically someone who de facto owns one of those particles and the whole process falls into the water. These are huge problems that, here you can as a proposer here take a chance, so once again explain it, that's what I'm interested in and that's the objective problem. I'd like to take a little bit of a crumb off the subject here, but here I'm using the opportunity to ask a question that's been bothering me for a while, and more people have come to me on this issue, and I'm going to say one concrete example from Sibenik. It's related to the measures that the LAGs are discussing. In order to apply to LAG at all, you should be, or you as an OPG bearer must be registered in a place, a settlement where you have an OPG. In the case of Sibenik is a problem, for example Sibenik does not have, I think it has a agricultural land, but what does Sibenik have a village called Donja Polje where Sibenik has its agricultural properties mass and no one can apply to the LAG competition because it has no residence registered in the village. Here's one problem of technical nature that's great. And another question, here's a little bit of a turnoff, don't mind me. I know that the measures are not all foreseen by the Agricultural Payment Agency to go out every year, and maybe they are, so I'm interested here for a long time is waiting with measures 6.2, 6.4 when it will go more. People are waiting, people are getting ready. So here's 6.3 came out recently. There's an evaluation waiting, never to end again. There's people asking questions, watching when they're going, what they're going to do. So the big problems are that I have to say here, specifically, what people are asking me is, in measure 6.3, they're going to digitize or renewable energy sources. I think the whole point of the story is quite missed, quite missed, and in the end, people took feathers even though they don't deal with peratrics to raise the value of the OPG and take drones to monitor the feather just to satisfy the measure. And they are formally passing, and in fact money, half the amount of these fifteen thousand euros was thrown into the wind because people were taking the first feather which is not parent activity, and on the other hand technology which they will not use but will formally satisfy the competition and will pass. So that doesn't make any sense to us. I think more through these measures should be invested precisely in renewable energy sources which, in any case, especially in the context of energy collection, would be very welcome. So let me go back to the law itself, the bill. Here you can take your right here and answer how ownership problems will be solved, i.e. how potential problems will be solved if something goes on or around, connected and the owner is not the same as the owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97625	We move to the final presentations of the clubs of representatives, so the first one will be the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. The Honorable representative, Rose Wolfovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97626	In the final debate on the Proposal for a Law on Cooperation, I find it important to note that in the Republic of Croatia, the prescribed procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations is continuously avoided, and thus the implementation of procedures that lead to more quality, economical and transparent legislation. Use of the so-called package. beter regulation at Member State level as a method of achieving as high-quality harmonised and less restrictive rules in the Member State is part of the EU's priorities set even during Mr Juncker's mandate. A report entitled Review of Policy on RIA for the Republic of Croatia published in June 2014 identified a number of negative phenomena that prevent the establishment of quality legislation in line with EU requirements. Furthermore, the government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Prime Minister Plenkovic, discussed and adopted the report on the impact assessment of the regulations on 26 June 2016, and identified a number of irregularities present in the existing system. In 2017, the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations, an Action Plan for the Implementation of Impact Assessment was adopted, and the Legislative Office also published guidelines for the implementation of the impact assessment of the Regulations. They were developed as part of the law and prescribed forms, and a procedure was established to assess the effects of the regulations and which documents and forms were published through the National Journals and on the pages of the Office for the Law of the Republic of Croatia itself. After the publication of the new Law on Impact Assessment, the situation did not go in a better direction, however, the period of marked indemnity of avoiding a reasonable democratic and meaningful procedure for the adoption of both the law and the sublegal acts, such as the rules. In addition to the above, I note that the round tables on the subject of the effects of the law do not exist at all, and with all the provisions of the law itself, as well as the prescribed impact assessment patterns that are randomly completed do not have any relevant evidence of the need to adopt or amend the existing regulation. As a result, more and more and more often we enter situations where new or amended regulations are worse than existing extremely administrative burdens, non-implementable and very often contain hidden intentions that make it difficult for entrepreneurship to work and business, as well as a significant impact on the state budget as well as on the use of EU funds. Why am I bringing all this up? In the introductory part of this law, I am the proposer of this law under the heading ‘Assessment of the situation and fundamental issues’ which should be regulated by law, and the consequences that the law will be recognised as follows, I quote: ‘The law on the accumulation of agricultural land has been in force since 20 May 2015. The application of the law in practice has shown that there are obstacles that slow down agricultural land. Based on the procedure so far laid down for the accumulation of agricultural land, no procedure has been carried out which affects the efficiency of the use of agricultural land in view of the fragmentation of land and the large number of small-scale land particles. In practice, the law could not adequately achieve the objective and purpose of the land of agriculture, which is why progress in agricultural production cannot be expected. During the application of the law, it has been observed that the prescribed process of land accumulation would need to be simplified, that it is necessary to make it more clear and concrete for the authorities which make decisions, to make more effective control of the implementation of the comcommissioning process and to regulate the financing and availability of the funds necessary for the commissioning. Respected, and the 2015 law was passed without assessing the effects of the regulations. If the rulings had then made an impact assessment, perhaps just as developed countries in the environment, we would have more functional laws that are in the service of citizens, not laws that are either dead letter on paper or inconclusive, as is the case with the Law on Cooperation of 2015 or laws that do damage to both citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97627	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the honourable representative Željko Pavić will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97628	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think we've heard a lot of problems here today, we've heard problems that are especially related to smaller agricultural areas, to the OPGs, and we don't think it's really in the law... Definitely or we didn't recognize it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law states in its assessment that this will be a much simpler procedure, that it will be a more comprehensive procedure, given that it is also adopted because two of the 2015 laws have not implemented any of the procedures for membership. Among other things, the responsibility for the commission is actually the business of local self-government or JLS. So our mayors and mayors will have a lot of work to do if they want this land to be round and if they want that part of the land that may not be in operation right now because it cannot be processed by an interested farmer to be processed later. What is a little unclear to me is, at which point the ministry will assess and how it will assess the need to carry out the commission, since it says that if JLS does not carry out the commission, and it is necessary to implement that process that will be initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture and that this process will be carried out by one single body or commission that will carry out the commission, I just didn't realize whether this is a single body at the level of Croatia for all or whether it is specific to each JLS. So it's about that, it's not clear from the text, so I'm going to beg for an explanation. Among other things, what is interesting to me as IT is that it is written in the text of the law and that it will modernise the process of co-operation among other things and in a way that will use an information system that will allow better control and different approaches in the business itself and I hope that it will really be so. I don't know, I haven't come across any information on who's developing this information system, whether it's been a competition for the system before or whether it's going to develop within the ministry or whether it's going to be developed by someone within our service-sharing centre. This is also not defined, but what is clear is that the scope of land will actually be defined on the basis of those data that will be found in the information system and that, after that, the information system will actually try in part as part of artificial intelligence to act in order to round it up in the way that would be best and best quality, which I welcome and sign immediately if this is done. I don't know what methods you're going to use and which, I don't know which house it's developing, I'd like to ask if I can get a later answer that this house is developing and whether it was a public tender and how many bidders there have been in the first place. Furthermore, I've already talked about these little OPGs that are really in big trouble, and I hope you can solve these problems for them. The problems of ownership remain unclear to me, I can see that you've been taking this head off when we were talking about this problem since it says in the law that the commission procedure can be accessed by both owners and owners. Now this owner is questionable because we know that the owner can be anywhere, but he hasn't called in a few years, so then some owner does, if it's already out of date, if he can prove before the court that he's the new owner or not, that's a big question, whether there's a contract between them, there's not a contract, so there's a lot of questions that we have here, they haven't, they haven't been very close to this topic in that part because we just don't see the answers ourselves, so we ask you for these answers if we can get it. Furthermore, these small plots that are in Dalmatia and Zagorje I think will be a big problem, especially because I inherit, and also later when marriages are concluded, that country is being transferred and has this property in several municipalities and several cities, as it will be carried out I don't know, and I say it has an interest. Here I know it has, there's an interest not to be from a neighboring municipality or from a neighboring town but to be there somewhere from 3-4 of the municipality actually some land joins if it will be possible and how and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97629	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the final address will be by a respected representative of Sinisha Jankac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97630	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, I welcome you all, my colleagues and colleagues. So here's from my position as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, given that today we held the chair of the 54th session of the Committee on Agriculture, at the first session of the Committee on Agriculture, I have just asked the present minister what is the matter with the membership and where we are standing and how we are standing with the membership, so here I can only express the satisfaction that we have a draft. The law that we and I believe will soon be passed and will soon be applied. Normally every law like this has certain questions, there are certain misunderstandings. I would just say that what I was listening to from colleagues who said that the Croatian membership had not been carried out, spent more than 40 years, so I'm talking about the former state, that there were several attempts, that there were several pilot projects, that there were attempts in 2015 making the law and that all this was unsuccessful. So here I also sincerely believe as a representative of the local self-government unit, and as a member of the Agriculture Committee, that all these shortcomings in existing law proposals have been analyzed with this law, that, as the law says, we have simplified the mass of provisions that have slowed us down in implementation and that we will move forward with this bill. That this is the Ministry. that this ministry thinks seriously here's counterpart Pavić has turned his attention and the information system has been provided with two million kunas of development funds, and... I don't believe that system is already developing. So an information system through which it could be easier and easier to control the processes itself. That the ministry is serious and this government is secured in a three-year period of 313 million kuna both in this budget and projections of the two budgets in the future, that it will all be financed by European means of resilience and recovery and that all together what we can read from the law will cost us 50 million kuna. As it is said, this is exactly the right time to go for reasons because there are European funds that we can make good use of in this way, and that is just proof that this ministry is serious and will take this job seriously. All those shortcomings that will be faced, dear God, we had a chance a year ago to pass the Restitution Act, so we recently brought it back to change, simplified it to make it as useful as possible. So in the event that this high home will be engulfed, it will be able to make all these proposals of the profession that will be seen in the field whether something will not be feasible and whether or not it will be proposed to simplify something will be able to change. To get back to the beginning of my speech, we can just conclude here we are finally moving, finally going and finally going to start solving the problem that we all know together. What I would answer to many colleagues so simply this is necessary, but there are certain regions in the Republic of Croatia where it is easier for people to rent apartments by sea than to process their small plots of land such as the West, such as islands etc. and it's understandable and it's absolutely understandable. And right through the very combination when you're going to round up a certain land then maybe interested customers who will tell me now are worth it and buy me a certain plot and do something on it, and the same ones who have changed let's say lifestyle and who simply have no interest in investing, process these little parcels like in northern Croatia, some other people who are going to do it will appear. So here I welcome this law both ahead and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and normally as a final say that HDZ will anyway stand by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97631	The next club of MPs will be the SDP, and Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak to the final respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97632	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. At the end of today's debate, we will all agree that the development of agricultural production is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and of strategic and national importance. We've heard that the applicable Law on Cooperation hasn't come to life all these years, and all this time, unfortunately, we've been waiting for the Ministry to see through and declare a commission of priority. The intensities of this law are certainly good to round the cadastral particles into larger and more regular ones, affecting the increase in agricultural production, creating greater additional values in agricultural production, putting them into function as abandoned agricultural land. The fact is that the existing unresolved property relations are certainly a difficult circumstance and this bill prescribes parallel resolution of such cases. Why, though, are we all almost skeptical of the opposition to the implementation of this law? We are late to adopt any acts concerning the Ministry of Agriculture which will certainly lead to a significant part of the NPOO funds not being used. The plan for the production of sub-legislative acts is unknown and the end of the 250 million kuna investment is projected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2026. when about 18,000 land should be co-massed. 28 units of local self-government showed interest in 46,600 hectares of agricultural land. The comcommissioning process itself is very complex, long-term, demanding and for all stakeholders implemented. What is imposed as a legitimate question is the duration of this comcommissioning process and whether all of these administrative discharges are sufficient to facilitate the process itself. What is a problem, and generated safely by hard work or unfair work, is a question of questionable transparency as to how the commissions will actually ensure transparent work on the well-being of all involved. That is what we are all afraid of taught by all experience from before, and especially now that public procurement procedures are involved. We made proposals for repairs until the second reading. What is more important to point out is the question of the objection. We believe that a separate committee should be set up to resolve complaints at the level of the unit of regional self-government, so-called regional. The county commission is now making decisions and resolving complaints by the same body as the holder of the commission or commission. The fact is that recent crises have increased the need for self-sufficiency in food production and that this is something we need to pursue. The healthy revitalised village is our future and we have heard it several times today, and the ministry should be much more concrete to meet these goals. Because the fact is that the National Strategy of Agriculture until 2030 as well as the Agricultural Land Act does not put into focus small farmers as a backbone of the development of agriculture in sufficient importance. As the Agricultural Land Act is already in its fourth amendment since 2018, we are afraid that we will look at the same scenario with this law, so that we do not appeal to another reading to respect all the comments made on behalf of the clubs and that the law is corrected until the second reading so that this attempt to communicate will not be a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97633	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97634	Thank you very much. I hope that out of this debate conclusions will be drawn in the interest first and foremost of preserving agricultural land and bringing purpose. However, the fact that so far all the laws since 2009 were promised to be, i.e. A government regulation where a programme is being set up, where a commission will be made by 2021. But that's not gonna happen. Maybe it's better, 'cause it'd probably go into the other hand. I think we need to work on the principle of volunteering. People who do not process the country with certain compensations and thus motivate those who do not process the country, to pay at least minimum the land for a certain time, a period significant to those farmers who process the land. I'm going to point out once again that it's a huge problem to implement it in a way to transfer everything exclusively at this point, most of it to local self-government. Here the county is absolutely isolated, and we know that 52 public administration offices have come from the county office, i.e. They are in this system and thus should also consider this law, of course, with the self-government of local self-government, because the capacities of local self-government for certain law enforcement can thus be ineligible. What's in the law puts it in motion or the ministry, someone else will take over. However, the fact that if it always stays on local self-government is also evident in the assignment of land, agricultural land where it is left to local self-government and there are many problems. So we need to find the best model, and at this point, like I said, the country is the most important thing. In 2015, too, the law of Minister Jakovina did not go through, did not have any effect. But I will once again say that it is very important here to protect small producers, less OPGs because the additional value to these families that have and less production it takes with education, we are at that stage that will be the university of Split's part of agriculture. Let's try that. Here's the deal. We signed a deal for that part of the Dalmatian Burn in Sinj, so that children don't go to other cities, i.e. The Republic of Croatia will probably never come back again. So in this way we try to acquire knowledge in these areas of children who want to deal with agriculture and that they can come, be a professor later literally at those universities. And I hope we can strengthen that Dalmatian Zagora. However, the same is true in Ravni Kotari and in the Sibenik hinterland and Gorski Kotar, Lici, Slavonia, Zagorje, in particular, the problem of parcelization and the problem of inheritance. I personally, when I inherited, died quickly both my father and mother, there were signs of three lists of particles of land, agricultural surfaces. I have no idea, but it was also transmitted from the women's line, the owners remained three, four generations ago. So all of this was transmitted essentially from both the female lines and the male lines, it was transferred into ownership, and these are very small particles. So we have to solve some problems and volunteering. Of course, it is very important here that the Ministry of Justice who had to and the administration itself had to do so and that this law was enforceable. But first of all, we need to protect the small ones. We can't tell the kid I can't survive. There are activities where little ones can survive. I don't know any other agricultural cultures can keep it going. The fact that at this point, we ministers must think about this moment, that unprocessed land must be brought to our senses as soon as possible. This is a weak process. So, in my opinion, it would be worth finding a model, so you're talking about volunteering first of all. The other thing is to see how if someone is not willing to stay owner but is obliged and obliged to either process the land or give it to some neighbouring land, the OPG, I don't know who to make up for. I think it would be a much faster process to process and prepare the land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97635	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Since they asked the information service to take a short break, then we'll take a break from 5 minutes to 17.45 so they can do what they need to do. It's the 17th 40th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.45 HOURS]] Do you have a replica of what the break is over? ... And I see you've picked up this replica, so I'm wondering what you're going to tell me about the break that ended this one. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Proposal, we go to: - Proposal for a Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food, first reading, P.Z.E. No 255 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Šima Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97638	... MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives are before us, before you the proposal for a Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food. [[Specially enabled.]] Currently, the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food are in force, No. 81/13 and 115/18. In an amendment to the existing law, it was launched with the aim of harmonising its provisions with the provisions of the new Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection measures adopted in May 2021, and teaching the establishment of the State Inspectorate. Thus, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, the State Inspectorate under this Act is a new competent authority in the area of the implementation of food hygiene policy or competent authority in the conduct of official controls. This law harmonises the competence to carry out official controls and redistribute certain tasks of the competent authorities with the provisions of the new Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection. In the first instance, these are relations, which relate to the obligation to register entities in the non-animal food business which has been placed under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. The new law is primarily a law which ensures the implementation of European legislation through the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, by ensuring the implementation of a total of 10 regulations and transposition into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This also ensures the implementation of European legislation that came into force after the current Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria were adopted in 2013. It is the regulation of procedures for handling against the establishment of measures to mitigate the effects and levels of reference values in order to reduce the presence of acrylamide in food, which is an obligation for food business operators to produce food risk of acrylamide. This law lays down the obligations of food business operators with regard to microbiological criteria which they must meet the food they produce and place on the market as well as procedures in the event of a derogation from the prescribed microbiological criteria. In addition, there was also a need for this law to further elaborate provisions that prescribe the process of eradicating registered and approved facilities in the animal food business as well as the facilities approved for the production of calls. The provisions of the new law also include the area of monitoring residences in food of animal origin and infringement provisions for those which have so far been covered by the Veterinary Act. And those same provisions in the Veterinary Act will be put out of force on the date of entry into force of this law. This ensures the integrity of legislation in the area of food safety and hygiene. This law also provides a legal basis for the adoption of national rules in the field of food hygiene. For example, the adoption of rules for the direct supply of small quantities of primary products produced in their own holdings or laying down adaptation measures to the requirements of certain Regulations and the area of food of animal origin. Furthermore, this law provides a legal basis for the production and implementation of the annual food monitoring plan for animal origin, the state plan for the monitoring of residuals in products of animal origin intended for human consumption. Next, the programme of national monitoring for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and in food of animal origin and the monitoring plan for the quality of the sea and shellfish in the production areas and areas for the re-posing of live mussels. The objective of the implementation of those plans or programmes is to ensure that safe and healthy food of animal origin continues to be placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the implementation of those plans is a prerequisite for the smooth continuation of the turnover or trade in food of animal origin within the EU Member States. In order to implement this Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food, there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget. Following this, we have today in the debate a draft proposal for a Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food that further strengthened and united the policy of safety and hygiene of food in the Republic of Croatia and ensured that consumers continue to consume safe and healthy food of animal and plant origin. Dear Mr. President of Croatia, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I invite you to consider this text of the draft Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food, and I believe that a quality debate will further contribute to better understanding and adoption of the proposed text. We will give further clarifications and answers to your questions during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97639	Thank you very much, you can stay here because we have a whole series of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97640	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we have yet another law that is in line with EU legislation. It's about how you said 10 regulations that very precisely and very precisely define very specific areas that concern exactly the area of this law, which is actually the hygiene of food or microbiological correctness. And actually through all the stages of food production, starting from itself, from production itself to storage, storage and everything else that follows the food process. I can only show through this pleasure because last week we passed the Law on food additives, aromas and enzymes. These two laws, with one good control, actually provide quality safe and healthy food and animal and plant origin to all consumers. in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97641	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97642	Thank you very much. So it's our primary goal to get healthy food whether or not animal origin comes to our fellow citizens' tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97643	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97644	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we will agree that the aim is to place on the market healthy food, so to meet all requirements for food hygiene. And now that you're reading this law and then different regulations, then the Law on Official Controls that I've also studied, we've been doing it in the fifth month of 2021, and then you're looking at Article 5 of this law, where the primary products are listed, and it actually turns out that they're not just, that they're practically animal, animal origin, and then it turns out they're both non-animal and animal. So, small producers, when they read it together, they turn out to be confused. How will you, after all these laws and regulations that further announce that they will change sufficient information to in practice encourage them to manage the entire forest of the law? Especially now in these conditions when we are not self-sufficient in food production and when food shortages threaten us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97645	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97646	Thank you very much, of course we try to make these procedures as simple as possible and as accessible as possible to our fellow citizens and users, but also to food manufacturers, they are clear and understandable. Sometimes it does not seem understandable, but all those involved in production know which procedures, which laws should be respected in order to meet all the criteria set out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97647	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97648	The esteemed State Secretary in the report of the Committee on Agriculture, among other things, pointed out that a high criterion was set in the Republic of Croatia regarding food safety not applied in other Member States, resulting in a large number of small slaughterhouses being shut down and increased the costs of producers. I am not a member of this Committee on Agriculture, but this has been highlighted in the debate, so please, is it really true that there are high criteria in Croatia that are not in other countries and if it is why it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97649	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97650	So, at this point, we are certainly making a new rule regarding small or flexible slaughterhouses, but it does not mean that those acquired criteria, however strict they are, are food, it is animal food that must certainly meet certain criteria in order to be safe as, as food or on our fellow citizens' tables. We may, therefore, agree in part that the criteria are strict, but it is another point of reference, and they as such must be strict. We are comparing the legislation of other EU Member States and we are of course trying to be of service to our producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97651	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97652	Thank you. As far as what you've explained to us, the only thing we can conclude is that this is another one in a series of delays from the Ministry of Agriculture. I can't help but get the impression that this law is also three years behind schedule. Why am I saying that? In 2019, the State Inspector was founded. It's March 2022, and it's only now that the law is in line with the State Inspectorate. You yourself state, I quote, that the State Inspectorate is a state administrative organisation that conducts inspection tasks in the Republic of Croatia and there is a need for a certain part of the activities and actions of the competent authorities to be further established by the new draft law. It's a very important piece of information that's been running late for no less than three years. Last year, the SDP club warned of a significant delay in harmonising food safety regulations, and this was officially confirmed. And not only that, until now, there are still no clear competences between institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97653	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97654	Dear MPs, we do not think that we are late with the law, and what is most important is that the controls on the ground are disappearing, they are still being carried out, and that is the only guarantee of what we have already mentioned several times, and that is that the proper health food is coming to the tables of our consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97655	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97656	My dear secretary, welcome first. You've explained this nicely to us all together in the introduction, but we always have a lot of questionnaires when such laws are passed that comply with the directives and we have one problem again. In fact, we will now pass the law, and after that, the minister will have to prescribe a whole series of regulations so that this law can be implemented. Among other things, we have here in Article 5, says the minister will adopt a rule on national rules on the direct supply of end-users in small quantities of primary products. What that means financially for that little producer now we don't know, we're going to vote that law, and what's going to be in the rulebook later on, we have no idea. It also says that food of animal origin will need to be marked differently. What does that mean for a small producer? Are you going to create an institution that will allow it to make some kind of inspection or inspection there and then mark that food differently. It's a big problem for small producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97657	The esteemed parliamentary attorney for control has been running since this year, so the State Inspectorate. ... As far as labelling is concerned, it is the only time we know that it is food, or especially food of animal origin, to determine its course, or at any time that if an incident occurs, we can determine the origin, that is, the origin of that food and that it may be withdrawn as needed. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97658	The next replica of the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97659	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, our farmers often look with longing, examples of small sirens or small family slaughterhouses in Austria or Slovenia where the processing of meat or milk is done literally in the shed behind the barn or behind the house. In Croatia, this is impossible because of the high criteria that we have actually set for ourselves. Looks like we've been going to quality all this time, and we've lost the quantity. In this contribution, the very small number of OPGs we have in Croatia, which are indeed engaged in some processing, and I am curious whether this law will finally relieve our farmers, so they too, as their Austrian colleagues, will be able to produce food in a fairly simplified way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97660	As I have already said, there is a new regulation under way that will relatively relax certain measures, i.e. enable these flexible little slaughterhouses. The competition from the rural development programme will also be announced soon, which means farmers, or cattle farmers, will be able to apply and apply to this measure for the construction of mini flexible slaughterhouses so that a number of conditional throats can be processed weekly on their households.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97661	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97662	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Director of the Veterinary Authority. When we talk about food mainly of animal origin, then indeed the traditional values that we had in our villages are unprepared by this legislation essentially killing traditional food farming. This is visible, visible in the import of GMOs of uncontrollably imported animals. Domestic production is being destroyed, and another topic is very important. It's about the Animal Protection Act. Here's an example in Sinj cattle that are essentially owned, no missing animals, no inspectorate that you mentioned state favors, the paying agency pays the owner who has earrings on that cattle support, which is illegal. Literally, the cattle drink from the sewers, break into the sewers, live in the middle of town. This cattle is a catastrophic situation, but the State Inspectorate says the cattle are in excellent condition. Because this is about... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Or about what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97663	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97664	Thank you, well-respected parliamentary representative. We recently had this topic with us at the ministry meeting, and you are sent, therefore, to whatever needs to be launched, i.e. certain activities were launched to address the problem of not only abandoned animals in the town of Sinj, i.e. inadequately and not conditionally held but also in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97665	And the last replica of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The European Union has very high standards when it comes to food safety control. We now transpose into our law the provisions of ten regulations and one directive. And it has also been shown through the European Court of Auditors' report that these rules are if we can say the strongest in the world, but that there are still certain concerns, difficult monitoring, especially by Member States of these major requirements, and that there are certain permeable mechanisms when it comes to imports of products from third countries. Recently, not only in Croatia, but also in other EU countries, cancerous substances were found in bread and bakery products. They came from sesame imported from India. I wonder if you have any knowledge of whether this segment will introduce zero tolerances when it comes to the control of imports from third countries, because we see that this is somehow corrected in view of the amount of pesticides and chemicals allowed in accordance with these rules of these countries, but I think they should adapt. European rules. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97667	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97668	Thank you, honourable Parliamentarian Petir, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, of course, that these harmonisations with European legislation are going in, not in the direction of reduction but certainly in enhanced control towards imports from third countries. What you mentioned is the finding of certain banned substances in, in bakery products or in sesame is also proof that these controls are regularly carried out and that therefore zero is tolerance to banned substances. We can also, in practice, testify very often by our Agency for Agriculture and Food, which controls that part and regularly reports to the public about the withdrawn, withdrawn human nutrition products in which these banned, banned substances are found.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97669	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the replicas with this. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go, dear representative Mariana Petir, on behalf of the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, directors, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed as a parent working body at its 54th session of the Proposal for a Law on Food Hygiene and Microbiological Criteria for Food. Through its debate, the Committee raised certain questions to the applicant, where the proposal gave adequate answers, so the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions by a majority of votes of 8 votes in favour and 2 votes with abstention. The proposal for a Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food is hereby adopted. References and proposals submitted in the debate shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97671	Thank you. Nobody's got any more. I'm opening a debate. The first is registered on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97672	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear principals, colleagues and colleagues, today we are somehow all about agricultural land, food, interesting topics very important in these times of crisis. This Proposal for a Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food is transposed by 10 Regulations, 1 Directive and one of the amendments is a harmonised division of competences, since the State Inspectorate has been re-established since 2019, and now all inspectors are in one institution again. We've already gotten used to that when the SDP is in power then they're by the ministries, when HDZ comes, then they all unite them in one place at the State Inspector's. Apparently, at least as they say, the establishment of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia to carry out inspection and other professional tasks and official controls in the field of veterinary, food safety, food for animal and animal origin has provided a specific sector for veterinary control and control of food safety, and therefore the activities of the sector have been the same as those carried out so far by the veterinary inspection under the food safety system, so that the unification and establishment of relevant inspections in the same body should provide added value, enabling joint activities of food safety inspections in the veterinary, sanitary and phytosanitary systems in particular, but also others which should contribute to reducing the administrative burden of food operators in the food business. Is that so or not, according to the comments in the replicas, it seems to me that we have not contributed to this reduction in administrative burden mainly with small producers. The food safety system is essentially very multidisciplinary, requires close cooperation from all competent and scientific bodies and management of food safety today in this complex global and changing world is not an easy task. At the same time, we must always make sure that importers are treated in the same way, but also domestic producers, because here in replicas are certain cases when we have received some supplies from imports that were not in line with the very strict rules that the EU has, and then, on the other hand, our domestic producers are somehow trying to fit into this very strict food safety system, which can also be a limiting factor in their production. So it should always be kept in mind that we have a measure and that, with very high criteria, we do not stop and destroy domestic production. The EU is a large common market and is exposed to many challenges in terms of food security and consumer protection. In order to protect consumers and their health for the past 15 years, a series of regulations have been passed and standards are indeed met that are among the highest in the world's food safety standards. Whatever the case, incidents continue to occur individually, bigger or smaller and affecting individual Member States. It's all still slow going on. The existing system of happiness, a fast food alarm system and animals has proved to be quite efficient for now and many safety risks from the food area have been put under control, but we remember a problem with salmonella in chicken, in turkey coming from Member States, because I will remind you that the product that is placed on the market in one Member State in principle can be sold in any Member State and is no longer subject to these regular inspection controls but only to these concradic ones which are not as bad as it is used because we see that there have been problems and they will continue to occur. The whole document implements the principles of the HACCP system, which is generally not a novelty. The HACCP system and the HACCP principles have been in place for a very long time, and the vast majority of food producing companies have other norms and standards such as ISO 22000 or IFS norms or some of the other specific norms that individual markets and countries seek because this is a condition for them to be present at all on these foreign markets. Somehow in the 21st century, and it implies that the food we buy and consume is safe, microbiologically correct, but of course it's not always just like the withdrawal of food from the shelves there is and not so rarely, very often the products that have that eco-label that manufacturers usually put on themselves, very often use and have some elements and foods that threaten the safety of these foods, so that enhanced supervision is definitely desirable. What is crucial to food safety is definitely a traceability that is extremely important. In doing so, I must stress that we should make sure that products that are actually manufactured in Croatia, not only packed in Croatia, only have the label "produced in Croatia" because we often have to import apples from Poland, so they are repacked into those bags of 2-3 kilos etc., and then there is a label that is produced in Croatia, and in fact it is only packed in Croatia. So this traceability of food, as well as food for animals, animals for the production of food of any other substance intended for installation is really extremely important and all of our larger companies have it, but that is the principle that is crucial when it comes to food safety. Certain food-related fraud and deliberate violation of the rules are mainly with the aim of achieving economic or financial profit, including deliberate replacement, addition, misrepresentation of food or food ingredients, packaging, labelling of product data, false incorrect declaration of the product. Therefore, strengthening the national, efficiency of national regulations, EU rules on food and tools that ensure health and life protection is something that is necessary and must be a continuous process. Otherwise, I looked a little bit at the preparation for this debate and some research that HAPH does this on a regular basis, so it is interesting that our consumers, when it comes to food safety, believe at least exactly the information they receive in the trade chains. Somehow they have this feeling for what, what's going on. Unfortunately, the vast majority of consumers do not read the declarations at all, of the third one reading the declarations regularly and occasionally see the most information related to the period of time, and only half of that third looked at the country of origin. So some kind of education of our consumers in this segment would be highly desirable and should be carried out continuously. I have to look back briefly on the situation where we are currently mentioned even the shortages of certain products in the food segment. In principle, I don't think we should, that we should all be aware, that all of us in the public space are giving statements about the seriousness of the situation, but also those statements that should not be further harassed by the public and our citizens because Croatia is self-sufficient in most of these basic war cultures, but unfortunately in the category of meat, milk, fruit, vegetables we are not and we are often forced to import food which is unfortunately suspicious of quality and even more suspicious origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97673	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the RF of Honored Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97674	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The health of the nation is first of all and therefore this law is very, very important, but as with all the laws of this type, we often overstretch the laws of this type and simply with this prenormation we choke some kind of production, and this is about asphyxiation of smaller production, especially those of the OPGs. Most of you sitting here, maybe all of you, are grown up in meat that used to be prepared on traditional necklaces, none of you died getting sick if you ran a minimum account of what was going on. And then the story started about the announcement of these cabins, the ban didn't take place but all the laws that followed there were simply traditional necklaces gone and today it's very difficult to get meat whether it was beef, pork or chicken meat from domestic family holdings that were fed with a lot less various additives, antibiotics, taste enhancers and I don't know what supplements to add to make this kind of cattle progress as quickly as possible and give as much product as possible in the shortest time. About 15 years ago, I was in Austria's Maltena in the center of a cow stand, a calf, a two-year-old stand was under the same roof, and then Mr. Brstilo was the chief state inspector, the fear and shivering of all those who belonged to him under his inspection, then under that roof and stopping was a mini slaughterhouse. So under the same roof, one container that was redecorated for that. The owner who was slaughtering his cattle sold meat in Lidl, Sparta and his ski resort. At the time, it was unimaginable for the Republic of Croatia to make such a thing happen and make it possible. By pressing our standards, we have come to the conclusion that pigs had to bow in some sort of authorized slaughterhouses, come on, people who didn't have the conditions to do that, and so, and then it got smaller and smaller, so the people who had these smaller slaughterhouses in smaller places just shut them down. And now the example that you live in Novska, you want to slaughter a pig you have to drive her to Popovač, 50 kilometers, you have to pay for a gift service, another variety of veterinary services, you have to go back and imagine how much it costs you. And normally to give up that job and go to a mall, buy something that was frozen more than it was meant to be, it's easier for you, but only then does the threat to our nation's health occur. Because we eat garbage, we literally eat garbage, and we don't want to admit it. Today we are at a time that is here after the pandemic when the chains began to shoot into a new period that is in the shadow of this war in Ukraine and the moment the chains of supply are broken who remains. There are still those left that are being suppressed by the family farms. But to everything that happens, the price of pork, the prices of chicken are so low that our farmers simply stopped feeding pigs to themselves. So I have a 27-hectare economy I don't feed pigs to myself. What we will do when there will be no more imports because the countries that have produced enough for themselves will keep that normal for their population and will stabilise their supply. What do we do then? We'll be hungry. And as I've said so many times, we're one step ahead of hunger. Every day it becomes more certain. That's why this law needs to be even more liberal. So we have to allow the family holding to feed that pig it fed, whether in a traditional way, whether with some kind of mixture, but far healthier than it is on large farms that it can do with a veterinary examination, and almost every place we have a veterinary station where a vet doctor can examine it, give his license to slaughter and allow that economy to sell its meat to whoever wants to buy it. A lot of people want it, but the Republic of Croatia won't allow it. We slave for some things we shouldn't slave for. There was one documentary show that was about the production of corn, but then eventually it came down to that the U.S. has only 6 slaughterhouses, that the amount of escherichia coli in that intense breeding and slaughtering dozens or hundreds of times larger than on one economy to which people from 600 kilometers of distance buy meat. And we just want to shut it down to the end. There's some indication here that he's giving in to it, but there's still more to be allowed. Of course there is, there needs to be control, but it can be minimal in the family economy. We have vegetable production on our property and we try to use pesticides today, and you can't intensively produce them so you don't use them to be minimal, that they're the least harmful pesticides with one day as much as possible because we sell our product on the market to friends and neighbors and people we look into our eyes there and we want them to be satisfied, normal and healthy to come back and buy our products from us again. So you don't have to make us act like our product is healthy. Of course, we need to get control of the outcomes because not everyone thinks so. Those who are eager for big, big profits they just don't, don't be using everything that would be in their hands to get as much money as possible, to have as little loss as possible. Industrial production of tow pigs is simply through operational programmes stopped, the construction of farms t farms are mostly abandoned, pig-goat production at the bottom, dairy at the bottom. What do we drink from milk? No one wants to go public with that? Milk is stored as powdered milk. What's permanent milk? I can't say, but I guess that's exactly it. So when you have imports of milk from BiH, I can't believe that they have more production than we do and that we import milk from them. I doubt it's milk, but it comes to our centers, no one controls it properly and just goes under the radar, people buy it because the crisis is, the money is gone and, of course, it's being watched as cheaply as possible. And then when we get sick, it all costs our health system again, on the one hand we get, on the other hand we lose, and we have this amount of carcinogenic disease that we have, we have this amount of allergies that today's kids have, and we're just getting less healthy, we're getting sick, and we're increasingly dependent on the pharmaceutical industry. Instead of using healthy food that we can produce, to trust our OPGs, our people who want to sell it on their property, and I know there's a large amount of those who want to buy it from them right now. Let's get the laws into it, we've got room. Let the EU go, I know that those in their countries that are far more developed than us do, far below the standards that we have today. Our milk, so the quality that milk is required so it is not required anywhere as it is required in Croatia, and that is why we have dropped production, and that is why our agriculture is falling, and people can't make income that they could because it's the only way they can grow domestic animals, and that's the only way they can make a profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97675	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Fair Croatian Honored Representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97676	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So world market trends today separate countries into two more distant blocks. One is large forces that produce excess food and distribute it worldwide through trade chains, while another block makes up increasingly poor countries in which the production of its own food is being dried and they are slowly being brought into a food-dependent position. This phenomenon is happening because we have witnessed food globalisation in recent decades, food production from the market is being centralized by small local producers. This crisis we've been in today is all the worst. We are witnessing that the current food supply system that has sought to globalize unsustainable food. This concept when we talk about food as the most important need of man is inappropriate and has left enormous consequences for climate, biodiversity and human health. When one of these pandemics we face, food supply chains become questionable. In the last few decades, we've been used to anything we need to jump to the mall. Small food stores have failed, the spectrum is bought once a week at the mall, but such a situation could change in one day. In a recent example of Great Britain, we have seen what can happen to the food supply of a pandemic. Shop shelves were locally empty, and some even exposed plastic fruits and vegetables. Croatia has also been placed in a position dependent on external food suppliers, and it is only a matter of time before one of the big players slows down or stops the food supply on our market because of the potential interest of a richer country. Food production needs to be localized, we've all been aware that local food is the healthiest, leaves the smallest ecological footprint, preserves the rural economy and retains people in villages. Does anyone wonder how much damage to the environment is generated by food transport from the farthest parts of the world? Does anyone wonder how it's possible that they're convulsing the world's lungs to sow corn and soy for importers like we are? Why does this happen if we can produce the same food here? Once a resident inside his village could get everything he needed, today villages without milkers or cattlemen are no longer rare, but the problem remains a quiet majority in Croatia that does not yet understand the importance of buying locally produced food. Unfortunately, things seem to have to be changing from top to bottom. It needs to change personal priorities because there is no continuing campaign that would teach children the value of local food. Until one critical mass rises from below, there will obviously be no change in agricultural policy. It is necessary to raise the awareness or awareness of each individual that once and the last local food producer, this village will cease to exist. Consumer mistrust in state control and market marks is a major problem. Here is an example, and already birds on the branch know that some of our biggest milk importers have the right to use the sign Milk Croatian farms on their commercials, buildings and vehicles, not just on a series of products produced from Croatian milk. Another example is one of our Batata importers who has the right to bring sweet potatoes into the rinfuze from abroad, repack it in the Croatian package and print the Earth of Origin Croatia on the declaration. For the third example, everyone has heard, the meat from which one of our dried-meat products of protected origin is mostly imported because the law allows it. Accurate data on product traceability is one of our average citizens impossible to reach. If he's not one of the lucky ones who knows directly the manufacturers, he has no one to trust anymore and decides to buy what's cheapest from the store. The problem is also the presentation of incomplete data by state services. It is true that the EU has been trying to turn trends and return food production into the hands of local communities and small producers in recent years. We are also trying to monitor European aspirations, but the measures taken in Croatia are insufficient, politicians are getting partial information on the total number of small OPGs, not in the structure of the manufacturer because the trend on the ground is next. For example. One county boasts that the Croatian recordmaker is the number of OPGs, but is not mentioned what these OPGs are mostly produced. Believe me, it would be hard for people to survive for a long time only on an aronia juice, blueberry jams or spicy sauces or ajvara. It's a great honor for our small innovative producers, but how many of us have producers and those of the most important primary products of meat, milk, eggs and flour. Does the number of serious food producers grow? I'd say no, though. As regards this law, I would like to point out that the HACCP system is a control system aimed at establishing critical points of production and avoiding the possibility of food contamination in these critical points. He is not a given form but a guide for manufacturers how to improve control. This system is preventive, it doesn't have to be uniform. Over the past years, manufacturers have paid dearly for the establishment of a system to finally see from manufacturers outside the Republic of Croatia that it can be significantly simpler and much, much cheaper. Let's not make a big mass out of the HACCP system because, as with any prenormation, the meaning is lost and the basics are ultimately not respected. Regulation 2073/2005 states that food business entities themselves must decide on the necessary amount of sampling. Therefore, if you study the analysis within a few years, you can see that the samples are consistent with the reduction in the number of samplings because they are costs to the manufacturer who at the end of the customer’s salary. As regards Regulations 852 and 853 of 2004 I'd like to point out that they've been the same for nearly 20 years. and that these regulations have allowed a number of small producers to find their place on the market without having to have large processing facilities. We need such a tailored system to return small producers to the market and to the HORECA system. Please allow the lamb producers on the islands to slaughter the lamb in small slaughterhouses, which are all present in Austria or Germany and which consist of two rooms can slaughter the lamb and place it in a local restaurant. Let us no longer look for conditions not to do something but to go together once, in cooperation with manufacturers, and not against them to solve the accumulated problems in this area. The system of control of hygienic conditions, as well as traceability has always been and remained for such facilities very easy to grasp. Namely, if the farmer has 50 lambs and two slaughters today, three tomorrow, four on Friday, we reduce all possible monitoring and control to a normal measure not because it doesn't need to be controlled but because the farmer pays, because it couldn't be, why couldn't it be one series, they were still slaughtered in the same slaughterhouse during a certain period of time. The time period doesn't necessarily have to be one day, it's a series of big plants, but it doesn't have to be with small farmers. If a farmer documents it it can therefore be one series and then the number of analyses should be defined according to the series. Furthermore, let us not ask that farmer to have cool vehicles and so on because he does not need them, especially if the restaurant is about 20 kilometers away, and this is not more than 30 minutes of driving or transport in the season, or if it is not possible for one farmer to have a slaughterhouse, while other farmers are being slaughtered and brought to the restaurant, but in the year limit the number of bows to distinguish the system from the large ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97677	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, MPs and MPs. The draft Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food will replace and repeal the current law, given the formation of a state inspectorate, which is a new competent authority in the area of food safety and hygiene, with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. The division of competences for the exercise of official controls and the redistribution of certain tasks of competent authorities with the provisions of the new Official Control Act and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection. The law will also provide a legal basis for the adoption of national provisions in the areas of direct supply to small quantities of primary products produced on its own holding which the manufacturer supplies to the final consumer or local retail facility directly supplying the final consumer of national adaptation measures to the requirements of Regulation No. 852/2004 and 853/2004, additional requirements for the labelling of food of animal origin, specific rules on the hygiene of food of animal origin, the production of a plan for the monitoring of pathogens in food and feed of animal origin, and the production of a programme of state monitoring of residuals for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and in food of animal origin. The area of monitoring of residuals in food of animal origin so far under the Veterinary Act has also been moved and incorporated into the provisions of the new Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food, and the same provisions of the Veterinary Act will be put outside the scope of the date of entry into force of this law. This draft law ensures the implementation of a total of 10 regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Commission and transposes one directive into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. We know that food security is one of the EU's most important priorities, affects all citizens and is closely linked to trade policies. The EU's food safety policy aims to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, and aims to protect EU citizens from the three types of food hazards of physical, biological and chemical. The European Court of Auditors carried out a review between December 2017 and May 2018 in order to determine what the model is and whether the model used by the EU is to ensure the safety of food built on good foundations and whether it is achieved by its application of protection against chemical hazards for food products consumed in the EU. The court found that the model was built on good foundations and that it was truly respected by all around the world. However, the Court also found that this model was currently overloaded by the Commission and Member States do not have the capacity to fully implement it. The Court held that the EU legal framework governing chemicals in food and feed for plants and live animals continues to develop and has not yet reached the level of application provided for by EU food regulations. Control systems are limited because Member States have encountered difficulties in determining the nature of the measures to ensure the implementation of the legislation to be taken in cases of non-compliance with the rules. Furthermore, the Commission has identified the possibility of improving its monitoring and guaranteeing the implementation of the food legislation and that the legal framework is so extensive that it is difficult for public authorities themselves to fulfil all the responsibilities imposed on them. The best way to keep the EU model reliable is to complete public systems and controls with private sector control systems. It has also been established that a risk assessment is being carried out to ensure that food imports meet EU safety standards, and that in the case of certain pesticide residues, when they are sure of consumers, import derogations are approved. However, we see that every so much information appears that individual food is withdrawn from the shelves because of illicit substances that can be dangerous for the health of citizens, so zero tolerance should exist for the derogation from EU rules for imports of food from third countries. According to the European Commission's recommendations for our national strategic plan, Croatia should seek to move towards a healthier and more sustainable diet because it is very burdened with non-infectious diseases caused by food-related risk factors. According to the European strategy for the control and prevention of chronic non-infectious diseases, excessive body weight and obesity are risk factors for the development of chronic non-infectious diseases, which is a major burden for Croatia, and this information must not be ignored but concrete measures must be taken. That caution is never enough to say, and the fact that antimicrobial resistance is one of the top 10 health threats to the World Health Organization's latest report. Already today, more than 30,000 people in Europe die annually from infections caused by antibiotics-resistant bacteria. Except in health care, we all know antibiotics are used intensively in agriculture. The assessment is that their use in animal breeding has an even greater impact on the growth and resistance of microbes. It should be said that Croatia stands here significantly better than other EU members, but it does not need to be dragged into great security, but we should continue to make efforts to minimise the use of antibiotics in agriculture. Since 2007, antibiotics have been exclusively used in animals under veterinary supervision when justified from the point of view of animal welfare for the treatment of diseases in intensive breeding or for individual treatment of animals. However, we also know that it happens in practice to use antibiotics to the entire animal population because of perhaps one diseased animal so that others do not get infected, while at the same time feeding microorganisms that get used to these medicines and then become resistant to them. Also, fruits and vegetables contaminated by animal waste or contaminated water may also be a problem because it is one of the means of transporting bacteria. The result of antimicrobial resistance for humans means the occurrence of infections that can be very difficult to cure or cannot be cured at all because the microorganisms normally affected by some antibiotics have become resistant to their action in the meantime. The 2019 Euro Barometer survey showed that food safety is more important to Croatians than to an average citizen in Europe and even more important than the price and origin of food. And one of the biggest fears right now is the rest of the antibiotics of hormones and steroids in the meat, and the rest of the pesticides in the food, so of course we have to do everything to ensure to our citizens that the food they eat is healthy and that this law, in our opinion, can contribute significantly. So our club will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97679	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club of the respected Bosnia Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97680	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have today on the agenda of the proposal for a law on food hygiene and microbiological criteria for food or, as I have already said today, another one in a series of delays of the Ministry of Agriculture. This law is three years late with compliance. You yourself state that the State Inspectorate is a state administrative organisation that conducts inspection tasks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and there is a need for a certain part of the activities and behaviour of the competent authorities to be further established by the new draft law. You said everything was going well, but I wouldn't agree with that. Why am I saying this because there are still no clear powers between institutions. I'll quote something from your bill. This proposal for a law will put out of force the current Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food, and in which the amendment started with regard to the fact that the State Inspectorate was established in 2019 and that, in May 2021, the Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection. Isn't this a strong enough argument when I say you're late and don't do your job on time? As regards the proposal for a law at its very beginning, it is not clear formulation in Article 2. This law ensures the implementation of EU acts. So wasn't this term used prior to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU? As far as I know we're part of that union now, and the least we can do is stop using pre-accession terminology. I would like to draw attention to the chaos that exists in national legislation and in the Ministry of Agriculture, so I will describe the food-related legislative framework, as set out in Article 5, and I will use the shortened names of the law to make what I want to say clearer. Article 5 of the proposal for this law regulates the placing on the market of food directly in accordance with Article 1(3). Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 provides that Member States are to lay down, under their national law, rules governing the direct supply of small quantities of primary products to which the manufacturer supplies the final consumer or local retail facility directly supplying the final consumer. The primary product is defined by the same Regulation as the primary production product including the products of soil, livestock, fisheries and fisheries. In Croatian legislation, primary production is defined through the Law on Agriculture as the production of the product of biliary or livestock products listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU without carrying out additional actions that would change the nature of these products. In the Regulation on the Registration and Authorisation of Objects and on the Registration of Entities in Food Business, the direct supply of small quantities of primary products is regulated only for food of animal origin although that Regulation, as well as Article 5 of the proposal for this Act, applies to all food from the primary production of plant and animal origin. What does that really mean? According to Article 5 of this Act, all fruit growers, vegetables and other producers of primary production products should be registered in the register and the procedure for the approval of the facilities should be passed, not exactly because Article 75 is 4. The law on official controls provides that operators in the food business which are family holdings, which sell primary products at the place of production at the booths and benches on the markets in small, on stands and benches outside the markets to small, on stands and benches within shopping centres and institutions and on mobile sales are not obliged to enroll the registers of the State Inspectorate and there are no prescribed provisions for the direct supply of small quantities of primary products supplied by the manufacturer to the final consumer or local retail facility. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on official controls provides that establishments in the primary food production of animal origin intended for public consumption must be registered. Egg production facilities, primary production facilities for bee products, establishments where raw milk is produced, snail farms, other facilities where the primary food production of animal origin is carried out. Registration obligations shall not be subject to facilities directly supplying the end-user at the place of production to small quantities of primary products. Finally, the adoption of a sub-legislative act in accordance with Article 5 of this Act is unnecessary since such objects are already prescribed by the Official Control Act, and the sub-legislative act will be able to regulate only the quantity of products and conditions for products of animal origin which may thus be placed on the market. What else can we conclude on the example of just one article, which is that Article 5, which is regulated in even 3 laws and at least one rule. It is time for the Ministry of Agriculture to unite all food safety laws into one roof law and avoid such chaotic situations. Everything is further complicated by dividing competences into a larger number of institutions. It was formerly the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, and now there is the State Inspectorate who took over the office of inspection, the registration of facilities and many others. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that food safety is not at an envious level, and that shows a few of the situations that we've already talked about, so let me list. A food affair full of additives. The withdrawal of a whole range of products due to illicit additives in fresh meat in Croatia has been identified as an increased amount of dangerous shiga toxin caused by escherichia coli bacteria. The public found out about it in March last year when that meat was already eaten because the period of the meat was December 2020. A number of other food safety irregularities do not give rise to the belief that this law will make a difference. In the end, I'm going to quote the part in your bill again. All of these further strengthened and united the policy of safety and hygiene of food in the Republic of Croatia and ensured that consumers continue to consume safe and healthy food of animal and plant origin. And I will tell you again, for all these things, that neither work in time nor make laws that are reasonable. What you are proposing to deny by any new law and you are actually not doing anything to leave the impression that you are worrying except that neither the policy of food security will be further strengthened nor the policy of food security united, nor this law will give us the confidence to eat safe and healthy proper food but only remains a bitter taste in the mouth of your bad laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97681	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97682	Secretary of State, Director... I'd start here for a while just saying that food is the most important thing. We have one big problem in Croatia that we are not self-sufficient, we all stressed. I, even in my very arrival in this House, was overly emphasising it, and now I would tell the naked truth. The naked truth is that food control is much bigger for domestic producers than for foreign import products. So I'm going to say that only pork imports a billion kuna a year. We can boast about Dalmatian prosciutto and other products, but unfortunately most pork comes from imports, fed with soybeans treated with glyphosate which in Brazil or South America, without any control. And then we ask ourselves, I always start from one story long ago my late father opened a chain of trade in Sinj and brought a full bag of lamb. The lamb was frozen 11 kuna was the price of a kilo, the lamb was from New Zealand, and it went all the way through control. It was probably to burn there in New Zealand if there were more expired deadlines and, of course, pensioners as pensioners when they saw that lamb was 10, 12 kuna it passed in Croatia. 10 kuna introduction from New Zealand to the damage of our sheep producers who produce lamb. This is true. So it was a long time ago when it was the first chain of commerce, not to advertise it now. And so for a few months, Sinj was famous for the meat production, cattle when the Škver workers of the Split Shipyard would get from Split, Kaštel from other parts would come to Sinj to buy. And so a few months basically what happened? The domestic producer can't sell his lamb for that price, it's invaluable to him. We've killed through import lobbies with that harmful food, GMO treated, GMO-resistant food to glyphosate. I gave them the law here in 2020. Two years since the ban on glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia, this has already passed a certain procedure in Austria, it has been voted, but in Croatia no. I gave the law that was in the last term and it was voted on, unfortunately most of the left and right did not support it. A ban on GMOs except for medical purposes and transport, and production, and trade. It's not allowed in us either, and then you come and buy a pig's neck in a 10, 12 kuna chain. This cannot be produced by our domestic manufacturer because it has enormous burdens, inspections, especially if Andrija Mikulić has been given these 50-ac inspections as much. I have no idea. And the funny thing is, I felt like a mayor. I became mayor and people warned me that there were cattle, cows walking the streets of Sinj city to keep out of the open sewers, there drinking water, in winter they don't have any food, diet with it we had a meeting recently. And they called me volunteers, and when I came to see that cows were thirsty, I fed them, of course, it went to the media, because I was a parliamentary representative, and I got up this story, and after 15, 20 years, I'm potentialing it. However, these cows have earrings, have veterinary inspections found that they are in good shape and are being removed from the sewers. It's deadly to see literally it's ugly to look at, ugly to look at, and of course I've potentiated that story. I wrote to the Ministry, and we had a nice meeting after that, but the fact that he owns those cows, we have the Animal Protection Act, and someone's been selling those cows now, someone's been buying these calves, cows, it's been sold, it's been encouraged by the Agricultural Payment Agency. Hey, man, he's getting a boost, he's getting a boost, and the inspectorate, the veterinary inspection, she's giving the results, now listen, she's found that she's in good beef and cattle condition. You know when she said she didn't? A few months ago when I came to the mayor and at a pleasant meeting, here is the minister, once in a pleasant session, we came to the conclusion that we had to solve the problem together. I agreed. We have a law that in one area of the county we have law and that words provided the funds were like from eu funds that would be provided for animal shelters. But these aren't unsettled animals, these are animals that aren't kept under decent animal conditions. This is punishable by the law which harasses the animal of the article of the Penal Code. 205. But it was all over and there was a deal that would come terms, we were waiting for conditions, we made our proposals on your terms as local government. And it's not just in Sinj, we have these problems in Drnis, Neretva I don't know. Now, look, I'm the one who asked for our what's going on? The same inspectorate of Andrija Mikulić, assisted by a relative who named her and down there, isn't there any reason why I don't see why they're only bribed, bribed, not the ministers being bribed, and you know who they're giving the sentence after that meeting? To me. He comes every day, and he gets a boost. It's... it's the EU's primary incentive. As local self-government, I have a duty to secure a shelter for unsecured animals, I have this obligation, and we have insurance for unsecured animals, but these are animals that have owners, they have earrings, they drink from septic sewers, and that is. If I didn't say otherwise, I wouldn't say a mistake in order for the triba to be said, and that meat to be sold, there are incentives, they're going down the road, they're jeopardizing traffic in the middle of town that we have 25,000 inhabitants, and that was 15 years old. So the me that I've potentiated... And until then there was silence, cattle were right on all matters, health care, conditioning, and that's a fact and it's a shame. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm like the mayor, and I agree here with the rest of JLS together and the ministry and all the services co-finance that part of unsecured cattle under these conditions. And not only that, that cattle wasn't vaccinated against tuberculosis, I don't know, from any disease or any disease, but they got an earring, and that owner was getting incentives from European funds, I don't know, now I don't know how many they were, but most of them are amounts. After that meeting the principal sent this proposal, I replied, I hope these instructions will be defined, that you will know who is doing what, that we will solve these problems and it is good that they will be resolved at all levels of the state. But I'm gonna do it one more time, that kind of behavior is just a bunch of bollocks. If the inspectorate works in such a way that after that meeting the mayor comes to me for days of side and harassing my services, me that I've made 15, it's wrong for them that I've potentiated it if it would be more important to them to cooperate with what he's got, did they get you an inspector but out of prosciutto, but from a cow or they got the money I don't know to protect that person. I don't know what they got, but the fact is that I'm being punished by the ministers and I'm being punished, I don't have a problem, the more they punish me. The same case was with covid certificates, somewhere around 100 kuna, we here raise our hands, pass the law, at the end of the court says Miro Bulj is right, and why I'm right, the court said, and you've been sitting here, arguing about covid certificates, abolishing human rights and freedoms, SDP, Social Democrats, all of us, so we're not tripping like that, and I'm freed by a textile worker from all of you lawyers in the ministries, from the prime minister who told the government to pass the law, the punishment of a mayor who won't. But these are human rights and freedoms, court in the first degree, I'm glad, we'll fight, let them bribe their own, so let me be punished... at first degree so I can at least paint. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also terrorize cattle farmers, mainly domestic producers, protect domestic production, and do not favour imported lobbys with harmful GMO food.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97683	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club of Honored Representatives Vukas and Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97684	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. It's hard to talk about agriculture after Mira Bulj. Miro presented a series of facts that some do not stand, but let's go back to, on the subject, the proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food. It's hard for me to read that proposal. What when we look at these 10 regulations and one directive to introduce it into the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia, when we take a closer look at it from the aspect of food safety, few of us can say that it is not good and that food safety is not important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, in all of our new bill proposals and monitoring European directives even sometimes, not only do we in many ways prename these laws and come into some contradiction that by following all these directives and regulations we have come to the fact that we no longer have small slaughterhouses, we no longer have small milkers, we have no more sales on the OPGs, why? Well, because we've killed our small farmers with all these directives, and we've opened up a space with foreign large chains for large imports of food. We have to say that regularity, the health regularity of food is really important, but there we need to be a little more flexible and we need to help our little OPGs to keep them from killing them and what's left of them so that they can't sell their products on their OPGs. The two ministries of agriculture and health and the state inspectorate are in charge of monitoring this implementing law. What I'm not satisfied with, I'm not satisfied with the state inspectorate because of all these directives, of all the regulations, a little bit of all the regulations, little bit of the media we see a product removed from the shelves, there are too many additives, traces of salmonella and it's not good. All of this happens, when someone sees it, it's usually too late to see it, some citizens already consumed that food, and what we have, we standardize the laws, we make the directives, but we fall on the control system, and I don't think it's good, and on the other hand, with all these repressive adjustments to eu directives, we've made it impossible to develop small agricultural economies that maybe in a few years we won't be able to buy or build a necklace or a pig on our domestic OPG, I think more of some junetine, beef, it's science fiction to buy, not to say about poultry, and it's not good. We have a strategy, and now we have the Law of Cooperation, so we'll have the law to ask God more which about agricultural land, now we have all these directives. If, if we are concerned about the health status of citizens in my view of this directive and we are putting this all too late in the legislative framework, we could have done it all before, but I think that in everything that we should be in the first place it is the protection of producers, the protection of agriculture and the reduction of imports. I think we've just done the opposite of all these directives, that we've been holding back our little OPGs, and we've been opening up space for the importers, and that's why it happens that the low prices of pork, the low prices of chicken, and therefore I think this is the last time that we're helping the OPGs as far as our agriculture is concerned, we're helping domestic producers if I think and I'm sure the situation in Croatian agriculture is not good. These 10 regulations, one is a directive, and it's my argument that it's really a little pre-named. As far as the public health system itself is concerned, I welcome it, but I think we've gone as far as I think we've gone in agriculture too far in a way that we haven't made sure in time that our agricultural producers are satisfied and that you can buy the products that we produce at our small OPG. Now it's still on the trail, and I don't think it's gonna be possible in any reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97685	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here I would just like to draw attention to what my colleague was saying about this strictness introduced in this law, noting that we do not have anything against the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food in terms of our people's health. However, when we look at this law without assessing the state and fundamental issues that need to be regulated by the law and the consequences that will arise, it turns out that the law has 20 pages of which are listed on two pages of EU Parliament and EU regulations and then imagine on four pages we have criminal provisions, meaning four pages of the law. It's practically one-quarter of the law we're referring to criminal provisions. And what my predecessor colleague said, we advocate that food be healthy, but if we're going to sharpen all the laws in our country it doesn't mean that we're going to have healthy food in our shops because the food that comes to the market in any EU country can also appear on our shelves. We'll have the same problem we've had so far, that food is withdrawn, that it's not from Croatia, that it's food that came from the EU where it's produced mass where there's obviously no such control as it's supposed to be. And after that we have what? We have a problem with our people's health. Don't think that we don't know that there are three types of objects to slaughter, or three types of slaughterhouses, we know and which regulations, we've studied it all together, but the rules that determine what should be in those slaughterhouses are too strict and after that we have a problem because the OPGs don't decide to have their own slaughterhouses. And I think it would be smarter and better to allow them not only to slaughter more of their cattle and more of their poultry in their slaughterhouses than to be allowed to do it out of service, and that rules are currently limited to if I don't cheat 20-acre throats a year as far as the dippers are concerned, so that's causing a problem. ... How much? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A week. Okay. So we have a problem with that. If we allow the OPGs to be slaughtered for both natural and legal persons in the neighborhood, this would greatly contribute to the production of such same food in private breeders. Massa, what a colleague from Slavonia said, the mass of our private breeders gave up because he can no longer slaughter a pig at home, he has to drive it to the slaughterhouse, that slaughterhouse will be 15, 20km from his house, until he gets there, until the veterinary check is done and everything else, he's not worth doing anymore. On the other hand, food is temptingly cheap in stores and is actually bought food that is not healthy. So I appeal if it is possible that few of these rules that currently exist and for the slaughterhouses to be a little lighter and to allow the OPGs to do it out of service means that they can slaughter a larger amount of livestock, especially if this applies to pigs because when the season starts, let's say up in Zagorje or Slavonia if you catch an inspection that you've done the cabins in your backyard pay big fines. And there's really no need for that, given that we've done it before and for years we've done it all in our households and we've never had any food problems. We made sure that the food was healthy because we primarily kept our food healthy. I therefore draw attention to something being done on this issue and then to try our farmers, our animal food producers, to allow them to have more favourable conditions, ultimately, and to go into the market more easily. Here's when you get to the ski resorts in Austria, in France you'll see there every week at least one to two fairs at 1,500, 2,000 meters, people come with their products, everything is produced within a few kilometers. Why can't we have the same thing with us, where's the problem? So, once again, I stress, we welcome this law in the sense that it contributes to the health of our people, that it contributes to our people having healthy food, to healthy food and to having a healthy diet. However, we appeal to you to allow small farms to participate in this production in a different way and to allow them to actually provide these services and their nearest animal food producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97686	Following individual debates, Marijana Petir is the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, State Secretary, Directors, MPs and MPs, we don't care what kind of food we eat, whether it's healthy, or whether it contains residues of pesticides, antibiotics, escherichie coli bacteria, etc. It is therefore important for the rules to be clear, that all standards are met and so that no unreal requirements are put in front of agricultural producers which may, in particular, deviate from what farmers should have respected in some other countries. If these high standards are already put on during Croatia's entry into the EU, I think this is now the opportunity that allows us to make the rules we need to make more flexible within 2 years. There was a lot of talk about small slaughterhouses that, in fact, by entering Croatia into the EU, stopped their work because the requirements were very high. It was too expensive for farmers to drive their cattle for 50 miles or more, and this has also resulted in the shutting down of their agricultural production. We look forward to these announcements that we heard from the ministry that through the rural development programme, the equipment of small slaughterhouses will be financed, but also moving slaughterhouses, which we do not forget is important for areas like Banovina, Dalmatia Zagora, Like, Gorsko kotar, meaning all those areas that are in fact quite far from some major centres. As we have said through these regulations that are already being introduced into our law and frozen food, I think this is now an opportunity to finally resolve the issue of frozen meat, above all, so that we don't get caught in situations where our competent services reveal frozen meat seven years old, and we've had cases like this years ago. We know that in the village pigs were always once a year, which means that it is also a reasonable time limit for meat to be frozen. Anything beyond that deadline, I find it unacceptable, and I must say that the Germans, the Belgians or the French would certainly not have come to mind to place on the market the meat that comes from the time of the dinosaurs if I could call it that. So I think this is an opportunity to determine how much meat can be frozen, and calling for memory and tradition that our old ones have always been guided by this deadline that hasn't been longer than a year. We know that the system of mutual trust prevails among the Member States and we respect it as others respect our health reports, but also the moment we suspect that the food that comes to our market is health, health questionable then I think we need to reach out to the instruments that the regulations give us, and they allow us to stop a suspicious shipment and question it, so we will no longer investigate it, and then chicken or eggs infected with salmonella will no longer end up on a plate of Croats. This law allows national provisions for the direct supply of small quantities of primary products on their own holding to which the manufacturer supplies either end-user or sales in a retail or sale on rural tourism. This law also applies to national standards governing the issue of eggs, milk, small slaughterhouses, fishing facilities, honey-processing facilities, game gathering sites, and it is clear that these provisions must be adapted to get food from the field to the table as soon as possible. That's what we want, what we stand for. This is important for agricultural producers, but it is also important for consumers because they will then get fresh, homemade within a very short period of time through short food supply chains, which will maintain the authenticity and originality of food products in terms of their cultural visibility, traditional methods of production and origin of ingredients. We know that farmers who use short food supply chains earn an average of more than 8.138 euros, so their added value is higher, which means we have to do everything we can to encourage them to join together in order to have enough and place their food right through these short food supply chains. And what's important is that it's a good opportunity to connect green and blue fields or to connect agriculture and tourism, and that's why we have to stand firm behind such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97688	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97689	Dear MPs, when I hear from your mouths, yet you have been engaged in the field of agriculture for a long time, you have been in this field engaged in the EU Parliament, you are now the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and when I hear these views similar to those of our position here on the left, which is heard from the left, I am very pleased to hear that it is a step forward to help our farmers and small OPGs. I've spoken a little before and I'd be begging you that if you can do it in any way... And then he'll spend the rest of his life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That provision that only cattle produced there or fed or that which is there for the first 3 months can be slaughtered on family farms, this 3 month is a problem. If this were to be reduced to a few days or if that provision were lifted, many who produce or feed cattle in the nearby area of the OPG would be able to carry out slaughters there that they currently cannot do and have given up feeding cattle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97690	Thank you, colleague Pavic, for the replica. So, I think the law is good. It cannot be different because we as a Member State must transpose the regulations and directives into our legislation. But as I said, so the rules are an opportunity to clarify certain things, to make themselves more flexible, to adapt to the situation on the ground because it happened not only to us in these examples that we have heard today from several sides around the slaughterhouses but also in some other situations that agricultural producers feel not motivation but detimulation, and that is something that we have to remove if we want people to keep in the country, if we want them to continue to deal with agricultural production and in the end so that they are part of this one project that we have been here all day discussing agriculture swearing that we, too, want to position them, so I think the rules are the opportunity for us to flexible things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97691	The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97692	Dear colleagues, I'm interested in your expert opinion, and I've already asked from this speaker a question. Why does the Ministry of Agriculture not unite all these laws under one roof law and avoid the chaotic situations that we hear about today all day and all this is further complicated by dividing jurisdiction into a number of institutions, so I ask you nicely your expert opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97693	Thank you, colleagues, for your rep. Well, I'm not sure I'm professional enough to be able to answer on behalf of the ministry how they assessed the transposition of certain regulations and directives. I think it would be too complicated for it to be a single law precisely for this reason that you said we already have shared jurisdiction and that's something that I always worry about, so here and we don't have as many bodies as it does in some other laws, so we have the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate to coordinate in implementing this law. Is it possible to do this in some simple way hard to say because we know the 10 regulations ourselves, so they are not the only regulations and the only legal regulations because, as I mentioned when I spoke on behalf of the club, the European Court of Auditors has in fact ordered the European Commission in some way to proceed with the revision of this legislation so that there may be further changes, additional regulations, additional directives that will then end in this law. I suppose a melagomanian law would be really too complicated to implement even though I understand your intensity because of the easier controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97694	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97695	Dear Parliamentarian Petyr, well here we have often witnessed in the past and nearer time that every new law, every new regulation, etc. it causes certain infidelity among agricultural producers, among those involved in their production and often have no time or opportunity to follow all new laws, regulations, etc. And then it's causing a certain skepticia we won't be able to do this, we won't be able to do that, we don't have conditions, etc. I think it would be good to include maybe local administration, but above all, the advisory service, and it kind of brings it closer to our farmers because often times these conditions really aren't so demanding, it's really easy, it's relatively easy to meet them, and it can really be organised in some way, and then later they realize, it's really good and we see that, so often it's simply that lack of real information creates general chaos and general confusion in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97696	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. Yes, we often talk about the need to capitulate the advisory service, to strengthen it, to need more people, to help them be available to farmers, but we may also not talk too much about listening to their feedback, because especially when it comes to these small processing facilities that the OPGs can have in their economies, this advisory service, at least as far as I can talk to them, encounters some difficulties in implementation and they and some of their observations or knowledge from practice address. I think it's very important that what they give us as feedback is also respected so that we have clear laws and clear rules, and that is precisely what you said farmers can do and that they can continue their agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97697	The next replica is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97698	Thank you. Dear fellow Petir, you mentioned in your speech a short supply chain, which is certainly commendable, but I'm curious whether you're saying that in Croatian agriculture we need regionalization because if we're talking about short supply chains, it's not really the same to a agricultural producer, let's say someone who has a small siren, so from Zapresic, it takes 20 kilometers to get to Zagreb which is a million-mile town, it's everything that cheese and milk and yogurt can sell here in Zagreb, but the one who comes from Osijek also needs to rent the same production because it can't sell everything there, it's not so much demand for such products, meaning 300km back to Zagreb, it's at least 1000-1500 kuna only to sell what someone from Zapresic can easily sell in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97699	Thank you, fellow Vukovac. I'm experiencing short food supply chains as a journey of no more than 10-20 kilometers, so 300 kilometers is no longer a short food supply chain. That is why I advocate that in the kitchen of our public institutions such as schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, hospitals and other institutions, so from military, penitentiary, etc. Through short food supply chains, we actually allow the food that comes to the tables to be fresh and domestic, to leave as little carbon footprint as possible, and that will also be the market for our agricultural producers. It was also shown through Moslavina's "Pun Ceker" and through the "Međimurje Stacun" that we don't really have enough quantities, it has also been shown through some projects where it tried in the hotel and in the hospitality to introduce, for example, Slavonic breakfast in a Adriatic hotel that it lasted only two months because we don't have enough quantities. So I'd like to make local, that short chains really apply to what local means.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97700	Next up is the replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97701	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Petir, your entire political work could actually say that you have devoted your entire political work to the crisis in agriculture and protecting Croatian villages by speaking of this bill transposing a number of regulations into Croatian national legislation. You mentioned in fact you have carried out this one thesis about the need to connect green and blue Croatia or agriculture in such a way as to actually ensure greater availability of indigenous domestic products right inside the tourist offer. Since you said that at the end of your time if you can briefly explain in which way it was already a lot of ideas that these indigenous domestic products are therefore products from the Republic of Croatia are placed just most of course on the coast where there is greater tourism demand and offer, so if you can say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97702	Thank you, fellow Habian. Well, we're also the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. provide for certain mechanisms that should, just through short food supply chains, raise the branding of domestic agricultural products, gastrodestination and link agriculture to tourism. What we have seen through the analysis that we have been doing is that there is a problem with the insufficient association of agricultural producers because we are all aware that the caterer and the hoteler will not go from house to house buying pigs, cows or what they already need carrots, tomatoes, but that our producers need to join in to have sufficient quantities and in this sense they can meet the needs of our hosts and hotelers. In this respect, specific funds for special funds for producer organisations are allocated to encourage associations, and also through the Agricultural Land Act, to be allocated to producers. and additional points to those who join together. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97703	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97704	Ha is probably seen by our farmers who are discriminated against and suppressed by these regulations and directives that are not binding colleagues of Petir, it does not say anywhere that they are binding. I think we should look more traditionally at the slaughterhouses and the growing, and not that it happens to us to import like eggs that are examples, fresh eggs, and from Poland I don't know where they traveled from, 10 days in the warehouse then they get hit by a date like they're fresh, then I have problems. I don't mention the eggs here as a terrorist weapon but... a terrorist act but serious stories. Indeed, I mentioned the event earlier when my late father bought a frozen lamb in a trade chain in Sinj which caused after a few months of disappearance, literally the disappearance of the lamb and sheep producers in the area of Dinara, the Kameshnica beautiful where it is near the sea, where we have tourism in that heart itself is gone. However, the fact is that here they can mention that they terrorise our citizens with regulations and directives that are not St. A letter. You were the vice president of the board or president of the EU I don't know about agriculture Parliament, so we need to adapt to our peasant to sell his product. If he doesn't have a slaughterhouse near him, it doesn't pay to keep cattle because it costs him. Therefore, we try to adapt our system to our tradition, our values to the survival of people in the country, otherwise we will disappear. The story is fog. It's not enough just to come up with that lamb's point and mention them when the elections are, I often make it happen, when the elections are gone, the lambs and their mothers are eaten, it's not enough for the peasants, we have to do a lot more. As far as food quality is concerned, I mentioned an example of a sanitary problem where cows literally drink sewers in all conditions of the van, nobody feeds them, they're not vaccinated, with nothing treated, they have stamps. It's for OLAF, and I'll even report it to OLAF, here's my colleague, Petir, I'll send the subject to the board to see who doesn't care about the inspectorate, the inspection led by Andrija Mikulić, it's a disaster. I'm going to raise this to the EU Parliament, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to raise that cow and the beef and the veal to our people. They drink sewers, that's the sonic example, and we have other examples. I hope I find a solution, I potential it, the inspectorate comes to Sinj of course punishing the mayor and nonstop terrorising every day. ... Go up to Andrija Mikulić, who sent you, and thus I will receive the punishment, and behold, I will burn myself for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we must solve the problem together and the administration of the veterinary and the ministry and the city and the county must solve the problem, and no one cares. For 20 years, that's how it was, and our food is the most important thing. 3 billion euros we're importing food, hey. The stock fund disintegrated with 64,000 years ago, I don't know the O.P.G.s who were involved in dairy production, we came to a few thousand and they're fighting for survival, and they're fighting for survival. So the food and protection of the manufacturer is the most important, but domestic producers are not the Holy Scriptures and the Directive. We must adapt to our peasant and the village of that directive and regulation because certainly no Austrian would work for his peasant, he would not. Intensive breeding, for what? The one from Dinara must lead one lamb to the slaughterhouse from Dinara. We will destroy everything, so that we may appear as we are above the Europeans. Since I've been in the assembly, we've only attributed directives and regulations, and in the field these laws are applicable, nor are traditions respected, nor are those people dealing with these livestock business being respected, but the important word is green and blue Croatia. Green and blue Croatia will die, so every four years with this campaign you don't need any, all the lambs are eaten, the peppers are all eaten. We have fairs of numerous, prosciuttos, I like the prosciutto fair in Sinj. I invite you, but I would like to get it from the Croatian pig, produced in Croatia, and not to come from the Netherlands and only the grasses of Croatia on the way in the truck, and we do the prosciutto. So we have to work on it, so this is more than unserious towards production in Croatia, which is why we have this much imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97705	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97706	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj from your presentation I conclude that you are the position that in Croatia there are much more rigorous controls of our agricultural producers than anything that comes through imports. I have to tell you, I'm in that position, too. Why? Well, among other things, we witnessed, not long ago, an example where one of our children even died after eating eggs from imports, it turns out that the eggs were infected with salmonella, they were bought at a big mall. Not long after that, we had the next affair. It was also salmonella or chicken-infected salmonella. The public only learned about it a few weeks after we ate all the chicken that came to our table. I think the result of this affair was a shift within the Ministry of Agriculture itself. Is it, in your opinion, the same example that we're actually very, very weak or almost uncontrollable? which comes from imports. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97707	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97708	Well, of course I am, is that it is not, that it is different, that it is certain that, not certainly not the fact that more rigorous inspections are respecting everything is according to the domestic manufacturer, and it is suitable for import lobbys. And that's a fact. Who treats that meat is fed to a soybean treated with glyphosate? Who says that when it comes from Hungary, I don't know Serbia where this pork comes from, and what is the level of glyphosate in this soybean? No one controls it, but it's much cheaper than domestic producers. And what are we doing? In fact, we encourage other people's intensive production with smaller controls, failures, and these are import lobbys. And it has to fit the neighborhood no matter what political option we are. There won't be any of us, there are insignificant parties and councils, and if we don't get the village, cattle are stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97709	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97710	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, food should be available to everyone in Croatia, should be healthy, should be safe. So what the state can do to implement and what processes more rigorous measures especially over all these foreign imports that come to us on the shelf of our families. And another thing you think we should do to encourage little breeders. And to make it even more possible for anyone who wants to deal with it, to be a small grower in Croatia, we are a little tired all day today we are arguing already the language began to roll. What can we do to help our O.P.G.s?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97711	So when we look at how many states it gives through incentives and gives huge amounts, we don't have results. And the question of where these incentives go, whether they're really going to the OPGs and it would be good to encourage those family smaller economies, too, because it's the survival of people in that area and it's national security in the back of our coast, Slavonia, people are there if it's empty territory, it's not a country just territory, the state is people. What can be done in Dalmatinska Zagora, Slavonia, Gorski kotar with some others, wood industry in Gorski kotar, livestock and agriculture. So we have to encourage, give those incentives to go to a coma. In this case, I mentioned in Sinj, they go to the cattleman who keeps the outside, because of problems, which do not treat cattle, which do not respect anything, but receive incentives. Instead of encouraging young families to stay in the area, to deal with livestock and I don't believe it's too late. Hope the last one dies, but I'm afraid... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97712	The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97713	Dear colleague Bulj, I will use my replica only to agree with you that such a legislative framework and by laying down rules that are not clearly hampered primarily by the investment and business of small entrepreneurs, family farms due to the lack of information and the inability to monitor all these legal changes. It is time to change access to this topic and the legislative framework will be as simple as possible in order to make it simpler for manufacturers and consumers and because it is precisely for them that it brings, not just to satisfy the form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97714	So when we adopt directives and regulations, they don't have to be holy letters. We must fight for our special features of our village and our small OPG, our manufacturer. And it's national security, it should be a strategy for staying in those areas. We can't expect to have just 10 large producers of intensive production, and everyone else will be their workers, or in the biggest case they'll be slaves, underpaid. So we must put these specialities in the legislative framework, not listen obediently to what Brussels writes. And the directive is not a sacred letter, so we must adapt to our peasant. Well, we lost tradition which is the worst, we lose it, it's the worst, we lose customs. The old proverb says better to lose the village than the customs, and you just hit your policies with the Brussels chats in customs. And we can't do that, we are, we have our own specialities which we must preserve. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97715	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Jura Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97716	Ministers, state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately most of Croatia's population is unable to buy their food from family farms because it gets them from rural households. In fact, it is especially in urban areas that most of the food products that people eat at shopping malls and I can tell you only one thing that I have enjoyed in the last few years I buy in shopping centres and read the declarations and see the last few years that there are more and more products with the label produced in Croatia. Whether they are correct declarations or false, I cannot know, but what is important to me is that this proposal of the food hygiene law and the microbiological criteria for food also intends to further strengthen and bring together the policy of safety and hygiene of food in the Republic of Croatia, and ensure that consumers continue to consume safe and healthy food of animal and plant origin. A short time ago, we heard from the predecessors that the most important and first place must be the protection of producers, and yet I think that consumer protection should be the first place, because there are still more consumers in our country than producers. I am pleased to hear that the rules are being changed which will make it easier for our food manufacturers to make both production and placement of their products easier and that these products will make them more accessible to all of us in Croatia. However, I still believe that the amendment to this law is most important to protect consumers. The proposal for a law will be put out of effect and the current Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food, and the amendment has been made in view of the fact that the State Inspectorate was established in 2019 and that in May 2021 the Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection. Again, the emphasis on the State Inspectorate must be also the State Inspectorate must really do its job and control any food product that comes or on the shelves of the shopping centre and also those sold directly in the family farms. Food control in many countries makes it difficult for fragmented legislation, multiple judicial jurisdiction and inefficient monitoring of the monitoring and application of the law. The effective national food and legislation control system is crucial to ensuring the health and safety of the local population as well as to ensuring the safety of food quality in international trade. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU of the EU Food Safety Regulations has become directly applicable, and the Republic of Croatia has therefore developed a general and legislative framework in the area of food safety for the purpose of implementing the EU Regulation, as well as providing a legal basis for the adoption of regulations, orders and guidelines for the transposition and implementation of EU legally binding acts. The implementation of the abovementioned EU regulations is ensured through the following food law, the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food, the Veterinary Act, the Law on Official Controls, which are implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and animal welfare, the Consumer Information Act on Food and the State Inspectorate Act. The truth would all be better if this were all under one legal roof, but this broad quality of consumer and producer protection simply doesn't see a way to bring it all down to one law. This proposal for a law provides for the implementation of a total of 10 regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. a regulation of the European Commission, and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia is to be transposed one directive. The law will provide a legal basis for the adoption of national provisions in the areas of direct supply to small quantities of primary products produced on its own holding which the manufacturer supplies to the final consumer or local retail facility directly supplying the final consumer. National measures to adapt the requirements laid down in EU Regulations Nos 852/2004 and 853/2004 to additional requirements for the labelling of food of animal origin, specific rules on hygiene of food of animal origin, the production of a pathogenic monitoring plan for food and feed of animal origin, and the production of a programme of national monitoring, residuals for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and in food of animal origin. So the food we eat is further controlled and I welcome this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97717	Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97718	You come from the Makarska coast, from Makarska, and you know what tourism potential is and what the potential is from Biokovlje, the Vrgorje area, the imotic area of what is the potential to sell domestic products and to encourage a domestic producer, not to be punished more than import lobbys and import products. And that's the fact where we have to preserve our specialities. Because I'd like to, and you'd like to sell in Makarska a grape fruit, strawberry, that I don't know. So people literally drink in the season their fruit in Vrgorec can't sell it. Do you understand what the problem is? I'd like to have the Sina chapter cabbage on your market, not to be imported. So we have a problem that we have to preserve our specialities regardless of the directives by respecting everything we've signed, and also by resisting for specialties. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97719	Dear fellow Bully, I agree with all of us the same goal means that our people eat domestic products. And I have nothing else to say, but here at the Makarska market and most of it is actually on the market all the products are domestic from the Sinj area, from the Cetin region and especially Vrgorska krajina. We'll have the vrgorje strawberry on the table now, and we'll enjoy it the longest. It's just that our producers need to be encouraged, they need to be facilitated by production. However, we must also not encourage them, and quality and control are falling. Therefore, this law is on the right track to work both normally with the upcoming amendments to the Regulation on the production of everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97720	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Brkan, at one point you said you weren't sure if what was written on the declarations really was a real state. Well, I kind of think and at least I hope that behind us those times when agricultural products are especially those that are placed on the market falsely declared. We've brought a series of rules. The last of those regulations I mean in '21. A year where it is clearly stated how products should be declared because if we won't believe in the country our defenders fought for, then I don't know how the citizens who listen to this will. The fact is that consumers would like these declarations to be more detailed, I agree with that, and I also think that manufacturers want them to be more detailed. Here's the other day they said on the round table that they wanted their meat marked the way the car has the license plate. So I'm curious in that sense if you think further labelling would collect the products And if who needs to pay for it? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97722	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97723	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. Just like that, look at me reading and it says that the product from Croatia I want to believe in, but that's why we need under the number of one good legal basis that this product can't be anything but as it's declared, that's what we're doing here right now, and I also believe that the state inspectorate will do its function for what it's intended to do, to control whether this product is properly declared whether its origin is in accordance with what it says, whether it needs to be further marked. We're going to relieve the producers, so maybe we'd rather be at some professional level of their association, say, from the Chamber of Commerce or somehow further to assign the brand to them than Südtirol everywhere is glued to whoever the producer from South Tyrol is, and that's what their Chamber of Commerce does, without burdening their producers. Why wouldn't that be possible with us?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97724	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97725	Dear Vice President Mr. Sanader, Your Honor. You've been here all day. It's good, thank you, with your associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Even in ancient Greece says Hippocrates, the first part we all know, and the second part I'm not sure "Let the food be your medicine, and your medicine be food", as well as everything we bring into the body builds us and changes us, and what we have introduced depends on our strength, our health and our life and our food really must be safe, it must be available and it must be healthy. And what my colleague Jure is if I'm, and I think I remember correctly, he was telling the truth, so we're athletes who do sports, so we have some norms as much as we do on chicken day, so I'm the first one to go and buy a chicken at the mall and then as I'm making food, you come hit it with a chicken bat from Brazil, so you hit it with a bat, and you have to send the kids somewhere safe in the other room, because that's how you hit it, so you fly it four feet away, so that's a lot of water, so you hit it with a chicken brother of a kilo and a half, and it comes I don't know if it's 300 grams in that chicken, so while you're sleeping, it's 50 grams because it's full of everything, it's full of all the additives and everything that's wrong, but you're buying what you can and you can eat it're like. And then when someone from Slavonia or someone from Dalmatia brings you a chicken, so brother dear, you can't beat it with a bat, so it's not going anywhere, man, so I'm gonna have to go to the gym and kick that dude over that chicken. I'm a little funny, but that's the truth. That's what you know about the code. He's tried a dozen domestics, and he's running around the yard in a healthy way. That's strong, that's a lot of meat. And this brother, pumped with something, it's a disintegrated. And that's why it's important, which is why it's important that the state takes care of that meat. When you import meat from Brazil and everything and we have colleagues I haven't seen this, people say I worked at a big center says I quit. The meat comes in and it's behind you, it's not even in the freezers, so we spray it a little bit, so they give me these liquids, so spray some of that meat with this, we know that carbon monoxide story, right? He says, see the red meat says it's good for you homework, and that's a lot of brothers full of gas, red, six years red doesn't have to be in the fridge at all, and that's what our people eat. And that's why it's important that this country does its job, strict controls, strict controls, and so if someone deliberately or accidentally, I don't care, goes to trick Croatian citizens and that something that doesn't seem to be right for them, you can't bring a duck plastic from China into Croatia anymore. And that's where the state keeps it, we're not giving it to you. It's going to fall apart. You'll be an example to everyone else. So, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be imported healthy food or at least food that is not poisonous is. And if you screw it up, it's an example to everyone else so you can see how fast the news goes and how fast it goes. It was nice to listen to my colleague Petyr, I was glad to hear about this story of freezing because it is not regulated meat and since my colleague Petyr is not only deeply involved in the subject, so this one but belongs to the rulings and I am confident that those who are there will hear it. Here's the minister I went across from her, so let's not let the minister be frozen in the Republic of Croatia for as long as anyone's frozen, so a year, two, five, ten. Well, you remember when it was the 2000th or how it was an affair and some meat after 15 years, man can't, can't, can't, can't, can't in Croatia. Somewhere else you do what you want, but we need to take care of our people, so here's the thing. I was really glad to hear from my colleague, Petyr. Mr. Malenic spoke publicly about the situation he has a herd of about 555, 600 throats, says his Central Asian sheepmen bought a hot dog with their dogs, says the dogs smelled they didn't want it because it's unhealthy food, the animal won't eat. And that's why we need our people as much as we can help to keep healthy food and be available to everyone. And that's why I'm glad to have that flexibility right up to 20 of some throats a week Minister, it's a good rule don't just wait how, two years can be done, but you bring it right away in 20 days so that our O.P.G.s and our little, little breeders can just do their job right. Let everyone where he does everything they can to make sure that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia eat healthy and produce healthy food.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97726	We have several replicas Mr. Miletic, the first one is Miro Bulj. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97727	Comrade Miletic, here we go back to our eggs, since this is an act of terrorism, but we'll talk this time. So Croatia imports eggs, our manufacturer is threatened. For example, how threatened is it that one who produces corn or cereals and Croatia encourages this, this export and that grain outside, so our egg maker must buy from being resold to another country, to another country, to buy cereals at 5 times the price, and this is the battle against the domestic producer. We do those chains where the state encourages someone to grow cereal, that they have to sell exclusively to a domestic producer if we encourage it, if we don't encourage it, then no. This is the problem that people who make eggs, eggs have brought to me, and eggs from Poland when they come in for a month stand, pour the label to be sold today, so that what happened down there in the shopping chain that a young boy died because of salmonella.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97728	Comrade Bulj, I know what you're talking about, and I'm only here, so I think the responsibility of the state is certainly at the highest level, but then small producers, so I agree again with my colleague, Petir, when she said people should connect. These days, weeks, months I've been intensively working the terrain up in Međimurje and northern Croatia, we're raising our bridge, if it's not, we're not publishing everything on Facebook to be surprised when it's over this and right there I'm intensely with the OPGs and with the people whose life it is dealing with, yes, yes, we're going to flood, we're doing, we're working... It's just the Bridgeman. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, people told me that this is a problem, so it's interconnecting, the synergy that happens then and here we are again, and we can help with the advice, which, of course, you who are inside and you are ruling, but I agree that we need to keep our fellow Bull citizens from all those rotten eggs, there are lots of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97729	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97730	Dear Mr Miletic, I really didn't plan to report for the replica, but since you've praised the chicken from Slavonia so nicely, I really had to react and give you a chance to praise it a little bit more, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97731	I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97732	Well, the fact is, joke aside, the fact is that we're both part of the European market and there's going to be all kinds of stuff on that market and we simply can't dictate to someone he's going to buy, he's going to buy something cheap or expensive, etc., every commodity finds its buyer says yes, this country or the role of the state is there to ensure in some way that a man reads what he wants to buy and what he sees it really is. It's primarily the role of the state, and I think here on that trail are these regulations, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97733	Thank you, buddy. I think we need to tell people a few things, first of all that food is a cure in one way, so you bringing it in for you has long lasting consequences. Now, of course, if the poor girl doesn't have what it is people eat what they eat is, I ate in the Homeland War when it was old, where it was supposed to be the fathers, and the house full of refugees, so my mother told me on the bread fat so I ate when I was, I took what I almost threw you understand, I adolescent what in high school was signing up and saying what it was, how you ate it, because it didn't have it, so that. But still, we need to tell people today and educate them as much as possible as possible to eat healthyly, and the state then keep what counterpart Bulj, our citizens of all these corrupt food products, out of all the difficulties that come from the outside and encourage our small breeders that here they are also networking and that this price is acceptable and that the more we buy from them, the longer the interest is to them at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97734	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Miletic, in addition to stricter controls, of course it is also necessary to prescribe the quality of the product because this will better protect the domestic product, but also eliminate the imports that do not match that quality. We have a voluntary labelling and proven quality that fruit producers managed to implement successfully. I hope that the same will go for meat, because for example, if we prescribe that fresh meat is what came from the slaughterhouse to the store within 72 hours, then it certainly won't be on the meat market that you mentioned coming from some distant countries and has no idea there could be fresh meat. What you need to read, you need to read the declarations, I'm asking you not to buy any more Brazil chicken because today you said you were a witness chickentoman...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97736	No, no, never again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97737	...so if you're such a chicken fan, I can recommend some family economies that have homemade chicken and invite everyone to buy their own homemade chicken and that what they buy in supermarkets to read what it says on the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97738	Thank you, colleague Petyr. How, now that I'm in what year, I mean not 42 years old, not much, but it's not even a bit, and I'm still into sports, but even now something's after me shaved something of that vegetables, vegetables, even that meat I've cut to the end whether who knows maybe I'm going to cross over and into the veggie is who's going to know, life writes strange stories though I love meat very much whether or not meat is healthy at the end of healthy meat. Once again, I think it is very important that we do everything that is a state, primarily you who are ruling because your responsibility is the greatest and you have the legitimacy to protect our citizens from all that is wrong, and that is, from everything that is wrong, and then of course we encourage and educate primarily and young people to be aware of how important it is to care for both this responsibility and about their own body, about their own health, about the healthy way of life, all of this is connected, a whole philosophy. There may be other topics on our heads now, but the time will come for these nicer topics in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97739	We have another replica of the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97740	What MPs love about me, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97741	Dear fellow Miletic, here's to making a little joke. I've concluded that you have a very large kitchen when it flies 4 meters away. And why are you beating that chicken with your brother? So put it in the oven and let it go in a normal way. You say that in Croatia some things are not possible or are they possible. Anything is possible in Croatia. In Croatia it is possible to write on the declaration that it was produced in Croatia, and not from Croatia, that it is packed in Croatia. In Croatia, calves are being loaded from some other countries, and in the end it is said to be a Croatian product. And so. So there is a mass of what should not be possible, but it is possible and so the Croatian product is declaring what it really is not. We've had terrible brands like a baby buffet that no longer exists, no raw materials from which he would be created, no more calves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97742	Thank you, colleague Lenart. As for the size of the kitchen, I crashed, old house 50 years old, so I knocked down the wall, it's not supportive, and then I made those sleepers, you know how modern the whole kitchen and living room is, and God gave me his hands, I've done a lot of things in my life, so I'm just a little tile, a little bit of this. There won't be any hunger if the political career fails. We'll deal with it anyway. Now the workers are worth a lot of money, so we're gonna set up tiles, we're gonna pull the power, we're gonna get water, so remember me if we have to. As far as meat is concerned, I really like that meat is thin, so I like to beat it, I don't like fat meat, so I like to eat like that. And as for this other guy you were saying, so we understand each other, I see today that it's much better than it was 20 years ago. Because 20 years ago, I was 20 years old, and I lived the same way in our country and watched our country. And thank God, it's better. But that doesn't mean that we don't have to do everything that we can to make it better here today and now we all do it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97743	There's a final debate coming up. The first is a respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97744	I thank the chairman. We heard today here it's really late, we heard what brings the new Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria. The new law states that it will replace and put off the force currently in force, and given the formation of the State Inspectorate which, with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, a new competent body in the area of food safety and hygiene. In the form of a previous assessment of the proposal for the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food published on 9 March 2021, it states more than a year ago: “Why is the draft bill needed? The creation of a new Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food is necessary because, after the last amendment of the law in 2019, a State Inspectorate, a State Administrative Organisation that conducts inspection tasks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and for the reason that Regulation No 625/2017 has entered into force, and a draft draft law on official controls has been drawn up. In addition, there is a need for a certain part of the activity and behaviour of the competent authorities to be further established by the new draft law, e.g. the need to apply Commission Regulation 2017/2158 of 20 November 2017 establishing measures to mitigate the effects and levels of reference values in order to reduce the actilamide in food. All last year, we warned of a significant delay in harmonising food safety regulations, and this was officially confirmed. And not only that, until now, there are still no clear competences between institutions, and the State Inspectorate has already been established several times in 2019, so more, three years ago. I would also draw attention to Article 10(3) and (4) of the proposal of this law relating to the obligation to deliver analytical reports on the fingerprints taken from carcases on the total number of samples and the number of samples positive for salmonella and campobacter for which the food business entities independently financed sampling under their own self-control. It is likely that there is a reduction in the costs of official sampling which is good, however, as Article 21(1) of point 6 provides for a criminal provision for entities which do not ensure the hygiene process of production and/or placing it on the food market and handling it according to the prescribed criteria, it is doubtful whether that provision forces the entities to report themselves. In the seed law we also talked about the need to define small quantities of the local market I repeat this and now to help small producers in the situation of a potential food shortage threat. I would also like to draw attention once again to the inadequate translation of professional terms and the need for consultation, but also to respect the opinion of the academic community. Here are some examples from this bill. Temperature monitoring should be a monitoring of temperature change. The freezing of food should be a freezing of food and the establishment of a validated method of establishing a validation method. We had similar remarks before when the academic community did not respect the term pesticides instead of plant protection. I would like to point out once again that such a legislative framework and by laying down rules that are not clear who will primarily invest and operate small and medium-sized family holdings and entrepreneurs because of the lack of information and the inability to monitor all these legal changes. It is time to change the approach to this topic and the legislative framework to be as simple as possible, and to be brought for the sake of manufacturers and consumers, not just to fulfill the form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97745	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97746	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, this new Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food would also put out of force a valid law adopted in 2013 and amended and updated in 2018. Justified adoption of a new law is also justified in 2019 by the establishment of a State Inspectorate which has in its jurisdiction the obligation to carry out a food hygiene inspection, and it is also justified that last year we adopted the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection. It is also this law that ensures the implementation of national legislation that we ensure and implement European legislation through 10 regulations in a single directive. We've all been discussing here today how to further improve food business and food control on the ground. What does it matter to us consumers? It is important that we have and use and consume healthy food, and for this very law we coordinate the division of competences for the implementation of official food controls. Tonight, we heard from the debate that in the Republic of Croatia, high food safety criteria have been set in relation to our neighbouring EU member states, causing the closure or difficulty in opening small slaughterhouses and small sirens. Small slaughterhouses and small sirens are the future and development of agricultural production and the survival of family farms in rural areas. We must not allow all of us to go to trade chains, buy pork, chicken, beef and other meat, and we produce healthy and quality food in our household. Therefore, we must be more flexible with our domestic products that we produce in family farms in Slavonian rural courtyards. This law will surely make business easier for our farmers, i.e. food production, as well as safety and quality of food and strategy from field to table. Normally and necessary to continue to carry out field controls, and it is also important to carry out further enhanced controls on imports of food from third countries. The HDZ Club supports this bill which ensures that consumers continue to consume safe and healthy food of animal and plant origin, and also our Ministry of Agriculture will, as always, consider our proposals until the final law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97747	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97748	Thank you very much. Here's one more thing I'd say is very important. A few ministers would come down all day, and here's the minister here's a colleague of Miletic's, so I have to commend the minister, too, so it wouldn't be just for me to react a little emotionally, so I don't want to be critical. Commendably, at least it's polite for the minister to listen to the MPs otherwise it's not in principle very often that we have such a meeting with ministers, most of the cases either don't come or leave the assembly very early. And that's one respect for the assembly and good for it. I think it's an important topic from this topic, of course, that, the subject I think is significant, food is everything, food, water is what is fundamental and talk seriously about this. Of course sometimes and the emotions of the process because we all know the fact that domestic food producers, we were just talking about the manufacturer, colleague Brkan mentioned that we mention manufacturers, we said the difference, of course, that the consumer is the most important. We talked to domestic producers and foreign producers because some lobbys that push means foreign products. It's very important here to say that we're too hard on domestic producers. Of course consumer protection is the most important thing. A man must have the same healthy food. If he eats healthy food, there will be fewer diseases, I don't know, first of all, a man will live longer, and the second one will have a less financial burden. That's very important because because of the food we're seeing and the number of tumors that we're seeing is increased. These data slightly less come, before it was more published, more frequent and more regular HZJZ but the tumors and in this Covid crisis were essentially and few other diseases were a little on the side so that food is very important, more important than the mask peeks, more important than the Covid certificate peek at me. More damage to food causes people health, mood, everything expensive than this, the whole of Covid. Here, I know how bad food affects health. So it's from the most severe diseases. Therefore, the domestic triba encourages, the domestic triba to highlight it. That's what we're texting people to stay here. There is their home and we must encourage the meaning of more, not only to encourage but to adapt to the legislative framework. to the recommendations or directives of the EU that it gives, adapt what we are and our specialities. We can't all of a sudden break tradition, we can't break the necklaces, suddenly say there isn't one. We're losing our customs, and when you lose your customs, you lose your identity, and if you lose people's identity, they'll leave and they won't know where they came from. I think the tribal would work on the identity of breeding domestic animals and the way they grow. That's what I'd like to point out, from this debate, that most important conclusion, that we preserve that identity, tradition. It's mostly about the slaughterhouse and this one and that one. I mean, people are in trouble. I know what people in our space say down in the Dalmatian mountains, the Svilais, the Kameneshniks that grow these are the problems, right? However, I would once again point out here the problem we have in animal breeding, that is the problem in Sinj he was also in Metkovic he was in other areas to really end this one story. The principal sent instructions, we made our remarks, and then it was a good solution that we agreed that joint and levels of the county and local self-government had to meet the legal obligations, that they had some kind of shelter, and that such cases would never happen again to encourage something that was not good because they couldn't be cattle allowed to cattle, bulls who drank sewers, and that the whole winter nobody gave him food and that he had an earring and that he had incentives. I mean, I'm saying this honestly, this isn't even anger, this is just to say one cry for people who are going to end up with that beef, that veal. I mean, we have to, we're getting into such an ugly position that we're giving incentives to that kind of cultivation. There were all three of us and I was, she was a representative of the activists, they were still an inspector I think we end this story in the best possible way. Each from its own level must do the most to protect these animals that humans, children do not watch this torture of animals in the middle of the city in this way. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97749	And final debate on behalf of the promoter, respected Minister Marija Vučković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97750	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, parliamentary deputies. I sincerely thank you for an open and constructive debate, for all the comments and suggestions that have been received. This law in the short lines of the draft law on food hygiene and microbiological criteria is proposed for a number of reasons, only one reason is to comply with 10 Council and Parliament regulations and with one directive. The second reason is also the need to comply with the norm structure and other regulations that have been adopted and that the new body, which is next to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, is responsible for the process of safety, control and implementation of food safety, is also the State Inspectorate, and we have also united the way our four national monitoring programmes are implemented. What I would like to say briefly and further on the basis of the debate, I haven't just sat there all day long, I've been writing down, we're having a little bit of a joke, and I've sent two questions to my colleagues about freezing, about the problem of connecting potential support and status if I understand the status of throats or cattle free of certain diseases that can't be obtained without vaccination, so we'll see what she could do in that context. But there have been many quality suggestions and discussions, and I am grateful for that. As for the obligation to transpose regulations it exists, it is not an option and it is not on a voluntary basis. This does not mean that when regulation is passed, we are not an equal partner and we do not represent our national views. But one thing when this regulation has been adopted at Parliament and Council level, and we are taking part in the position of the Council of Croatia, then our obligation as a country that participates equally is to implement this regulation in national legislation. That's not why we're the administration or the father-in-law we call ourselves here, we're doing the right thing before we get here. Also, the fact that we are making great efforts in the safety of food and animal health, which we are, has been recognised by the Commission because today we have, my colleague Karadzic will correct me if I speak incorrectly because I have not checked the last issue, the 29 programmes in this area co-financed by the European Commission, and this has never happened. That is why in the last year alone, we have received three countries free of certain diseases which will strengthen our exports, countries free from classical swine fever, and we haven't had that status since 2008. A country free from rabies, a country free from brucellosis of cattle. This is very important for Croatian producers, it is very important for Croatian exporters, and I would like to thank everyone whose years of efforts have been rewarded by these statuses, and above all, the Croatian veterinary profession, which, apart from the Ministry of Veterinary Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, is equally represented by representatives of the Veterinary Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate of the Republic and veterinary authorised organisations and institutes and colleges, all those who work hard to identify in the world, unfortunately we do not have enough Croatian national veterinary system. I would also like to refer to the remarks that I understand, which have come here and are related to the number of regulations and there have been suggestions that these regulations be united to be one more instead. I am not sure whether this will bring about a shift in transparency and clarity because it is complex regulations, the Food Law, the Food Hygiene Act, the Law on Adjuvants, some of which cannot be included in our united regulations because it is the competent Ministry of Health for their proposal, but this initiative is understandable, worth considering, and we will consider it in the next period. This was also about the problem of freezing and the time to which food can be frozen. They are right when they say it is not prescribed, here we have already sent a question in which way and according to which it is possible to do so, which is not in practice a major item and important in practice so many items in Croatia. What countries must ensure must ensure that food is healthy, including frozen and fresh and Croats if we talk about our country much less than the average in the EU buy frozen meat, that is, the fact. But it certainly is worth considering and answering all these suggestions. As far as the issues of self-sufficiency of feeding the Croatian population to domestic products are concerned, of course, that all these initiatives and wishes for this rate to be more welcome and that we are working on them. We work on them, we work on them and through these interventions in order to manage to keep production and through investment in investments, in structured investments in line with the strategy, so we have a number of sectoral competitions, valuable tenders designed to raise the productivity and competitiveness of Croatia's agricultural economy and through amendments to the regulations, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Agricultural Land Act, which adequately value those who will produce what Croatia lacks and create higher added value. However, we are not intended to produce for domestic use. We are part of the single market, we are those who are very active, and you can see that in all the positions we advocate that third countries from which we import, third countries are not EU countries, apply the same high standards that countries in the EU need for food. But we're a country that needs to target exports. It's not the point of banning imports or not importing them, it's impossible. The point is to encourage exports and our producers are strong enough to compete equally on the international market and the point is that our export rate is growing faster than the import rate. And I'm going to say that we have this in the last two years, but of course it's too early to talk about the trend, it's too early and it's there to be careful. It should be done all that this export rate is growing and much faster than it is growing today. As for the objections regarding inadequate translation and certain terms, I can only say that I will check if it can be more linguistically correct why not, we will look at that. In the end, there will be small slaughterhouses. It's not just about the little slaughterhouses. It's about the little sirens and the fish shops. This Ministry of Agriculture has adopted appropriate regulations that allow for certain flexibility for all these facilities to benefit from those producers who are small by way of a slaughterhouse they are very often mentioned. Enabled, different conditions are enabled for so-called Little slaughterhouses, different flexibility, and that way it's possible here, I'll try to express myself properly. I'd like to avoid the word "slaughter." It is possible to process 20 conditional throats a week, such as 20 cows, slightly more tow bulls, or almost 80 pigs. In connection with animal care, this Ministry of Agriculture sent a letter to the European Commission last year asking for the possibility of financing the construction of a shelter in Croatia through Operation 741 from the rural development programme. We have received, so we understand, read such agreement and in the latest amendments to the Rural Development Programme, we have foreseen this amendment and asked for the Commission's agreement. And this year, I think it's going to be this year to announce a contest for that kind of thing. There is also a special tender for investment in mini slaughterhouses in Croatia through the Rural Development Programme. I'll mention since I've already said what the veterinary profession is doing and how we want to promote exports, that over the last two years we've opened up a dozen new export markets. Some will be significant, some less significant but should work on it. And once again, I want to thank all the veterinarians who have chosen to recognise our veterinary certificates. When I talk about the last few months these markets are Libya, Israel, Costa Rica, Egypt and Japan which is the world's largest importer of meat and we have recently received our last approved veterinary certificate consent to such a certificate for meat and right after that we have had the export of Croatian juniper meat. That's our goal, we'll work on it. I thank you all for your cooperation and patience and, of course, we will see all the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97751	We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now five minutes break for the ITs, and we'll proceed. It's a meeting at 8:31 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.37 HOURS]] The proposer shall be the Committee on Agriculture under Article. 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 163 The Rules of Procedure of HS. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Prior to the start of the debate, the applicant submitted amendments, which are based on an article. 202. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the proposal for a declaration. Does the applicant's representative want to give an explanation? Dear Representative and Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The Agriculture Committee adopted and directed the adoption procedure into HS Proposal for a Declaration on the Alpe-Adria-Dunav area free of GMOs. This proposal is based on relevant, national and European regulations, declarations and protocols, including the precautionary principle in the event of a threat of serious or irreparable damage to nature. It is important to mention that, in accordance with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, between 2003 and 2010. Decisions taken by all counties in the Republic of Croatia to declare their areas free of GMOs, and subsequently to release live GMOs into the environment throughout the Republic of Croatia, even for experimental purposes. I'll remind you it's 2015. the amended European Directive, which gives Member States the possibility to prohibit the cultivation of individual or groups of GMOs in action or throughout their territory, and until then over 150 regions and 4500 local administrations across Europe have decided on their GMOs free status. Considering all the activities we have undertaken on the domestic and international agenda in the last 20 years. We are aware that it is not enough to make a decision that Croatia wants to be GMO free unless it is followed by other countries in the environment because it does not know bees or wind which is GMO and which is not. In this light, this initiative to declare the entire Alps-Adria-Dunav region free of GMOs was created. With this proposal for a declaration, we would especially like to emphasise that the natural resources that we are ruling are of a nature that we have because of our diversity and uniqueness of the national treasure of immeasurable value, and we need to keep ourselves constantly busy for their preservation. In addition, for example, the entire Alpe-Adria-Dunav region, we consider it important to mention the conditionality of high-quality food production based on the daily effort of the OPGs and their efforts to preserve and rationally use the resources used for this production. At the same time, the conservation and protection of these resources also affects the preservation and strengthening of rural local communities and the retention of inhabitants in rural areas. Just recognising the importance of preserving agricultural production within protected areas of nature as the potential for developing compatible economic and tourism activities in their environment, we stress the importance of a coherent and sustainable co-existence with nature, and this declaration shows support for environmentally sensitive and ecological cultivation of agricultural products, as well as the preservation of biodiversity as a stock of the safe future of this, but also for generations to come. We therefore believe that it is important to continue to finance projects aimed at environmentally sensitive agricultural production, but also to promote and brand domestic and quality food and to focus more on organic production and cultivation of GMOs free products by supporting their position and competitiveness on the market. Additional support for these activities would be provided by quality systems and adequate declaration of GMO free products, but also by establishing clear criteria related to the labelling of GMOs free products and strengthening of control bodies, official and reference laboratories for GMOs. The importance of this proposal is also reflected in the fact that the European Commission grants approvals for the use of some genetically modified products within the Union in spite of the European Parliament's opposition and the European Court's decision, so we consider it important to strengthen the definition of the Republic of Croatia as a country free from GMOs. The objectives of the European Green Plan, the ‘From Field to Table’ Strategy, are aimed at sustainable agricultural production, the conservation of rural areas and include a 25% target under organic production by 2030. This declaration also gives additional confirmation of our commitment to strengthen organic agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, thus meeting the objectives set at European level. As organic agricultural production excludes the use of GMOs, its importance is particularly highlighted in the text of the proposal for a declaration. I would also remind myself of the recommendations made by the European Commission for the development of the National Strategic Plan under the Common Agricultural Policy in which Croatia ranks among the countries with the richest biodiversity in Europe but the measures that will contribute to meeting the European Green Plan on Biodiversity should include the promotion of appropriate ecologically acceptable and sustainable agriculture, forestry and habitat management practices, the definition of ambitious requirements for good agricultural and environmental land conditions related to biodiversity. The text of the declaration we are proposing is directed precisely at these requirements. I would also refer to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for a Declaration of the Alps-Adria-Dunav on an area free from GMOs where the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the adoption of the declaration and the opinion that it is necessary to include aquaculture products and to replace the biodiversity plan with the term biodiversity. The Committee on Agriculture discussed these proposals and set out at its 54th session today the text of the 2 amendments to the procedure. Before I conclude this preliminary presentation and invite you to give your support to the proposal for a declaration, I would also remind you of a good example which confirms the possibility of carrying out the activities proposed by this declaration. It is a successful Europe-wide Danube Soja initiative in which 13 other countries are involved, which is successfully implemented with the aim of producing soybean without GMOs and which contributes to the safety of protein supply in Europe. I call, of course, on our international partners from the Alpe-Adria-Dunav region to join our initiative and make the necessary efforts to support the areas free of GMOs are accepted and supported with the aim of preserving biodiversity of environmentally sensitive and ecological farming of agricultural products of particular heritage in this area of Central Europe, and taking into account the activities that Croatia but also our neighbouring countries have already spent or implemented on their national territory. Croatia is a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment, but we are contaminants in both regional and global terms. More than half of our territory is protected in different categories of the Nature Protection Act. The Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean. Our peasant food can still be produced in a traditional way. Croatia is a country free from GMOs so we want it to remain in the future, so I invite you all to support this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97755	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97756	Thank you. Dear colleagues in the origins and foundations of the proposal for a declaration are invited to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in particular to Article 52, which describes all our rights. I must mention that under that same constitution, people have the right to work and the right to live on the same work. For our farmers, however, it is as if a different constitution is in force because they have a hard time working first, and even harder to live from it. The whole series of laws that the Ministry of Agriculture makes is often not for the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers. Only in January this year, 103 interrupted their production. Also, I must point out that just last week, it came out that we as a state of commodity reserve don't have enough, and about 50% of it are food products. The grains will now be obtained at a significantly more expensive price instead of planning and thinking about it in time and that the supplies were filled in when prices were much lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97757	Thank you, colleagues, for the replica, and we're like the representatives of the co-creators of the laws that are being passed. I wouldn't be as strict as you to the Ministry of Agriculture because I think the shifts are still visible and when we look back for the last 10 years then these shifts are strong. Of course, as the people say, there are no faults to correct, and some of the things that have been missed to do or done wrong have had consequences. And it's hard to correct the situation in the agriculture of any state overnight because the debates we have here today I remember them from the European Parliament will also tell you French representatives and Belgian representatives and German MPs, and we here can bet that they still have a little stronger resources and longer use European funds than Croatian farmers do so so that I think we should be a little more objective in assessing the situation that is difficult, but it's certainly better than it was before. When it comes to stock reserves I'd just point out that I think we should... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97758	The next replica is Ljubica Maksimchuk's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97759	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Petir you launched this initiative in 2010 in the Croatian Parliament when all the counties in their area banned the release of live organisms of GMOs into the environment. You encouraged and raised the initiative to a European level when you were a representative in the European Parliament. Today, this initiative is in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and I am sure that we all agree and support it. The green plan and strategy from field to table, the biodiversity strategy is aimed at sustainable agricultural production and the preservation of rural areas, include the 25% target area under organic production by 2030. Do you feel that accepting this declaration will increase organic farming because in all today's debates we could hear and everyone mentioned healthy and domestic. We must preserve natural benefits for young generations, and this may be an opportunity for us to speed up and increase organic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97760	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97761	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Well, I think we really have good predisposition for the development of organic production, especially in some areas where the soil has been intact for a really long time and it would be desirable to bring it to its end. So there is no need for the classic rest that is needed for organic production because the soil is still. They can set an example of Banovina, but they are certainly some other areas in the Republic of Croatia. And I think we need to turn seriously to organic production. According to ministry announcements, the action plan for organic production should be completed this year. We see that there are individual initiatives of some counties such as Zagreb County which have determined that by 2030 they will actually place all their surfaces under ecological production, and that schools, kindergartens, public institutions will supply them with these organic products. So we need to take a look at these positive examples. We've got a safe space to increase organic production. This declaration is the wind in the back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97762	Next replica respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97763	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Petir. Today we often hear in the Croatian Parliament that people and space are one of the largest resources of the Republic of Croatia and that we should guard them, so today I will congratulate you from these benches. Congratulations to you personally on your 20-year engagement in keeping the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also on discussing this declaration today. I'm looking at it with other eyes, I'm looking at it that your personal involvement is embedded in this declaration and that you should be given a personal recognition for it. I am further interested in you as a person who has come to life with the village, who understands family farms, who understands processes and procedures whether you have the hope that even after this declaration there will be qualitative changes in our village and that we may return some of the cultures that have been forgotten, for example, that we will replant the flax in our Moslavina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97764	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97765	Thank you very much, Posavec-Krivec, for recognising my efforts because indeed a lot of time has been put into not only my work but also the professional, scientific community has been an ethicist and all those who have been in some way interested in preserving the Croatian space and our biological sovereignty which may not be spoken of. I have hope that this declaration will result in positive things, because we are already in contact with both communication and with countries in an environment that understand that this is a good initiative that can give added value to our agriculture and tourism. I don't mean ours just as a Croatian, but brand the whole region, which is not in all these circumstances at all irrelevant. The next step we want to think about is to mark these products where we expect and help from the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97766	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97767	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Petir, here I also congratulate you on this long-standing initiative and perseverance, and I am really glad that this declaration has an Alpe Adria Danube, because we know that this alliance exists for more than 40 years and it is really there in our neighborhood and it is very important that they get involved too, because we all know that wind and customers and all of these imposings do not know the limits, and it is good that all of these other countries are involved and, of course, I can see that the Alliance is now thinking that the Varazdin County has been chaired by the Alliance of Alpe Adria. She has now taken over Styria and that it is one of the priorities for them to join the regions of Italy, means that it is easy to circle around and that we still preserve this ecological and this healthy diet of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97768	Thank you, colleagues, for this replica. Well, I certainly think that we really have so many comparative advantages that sometimes we are not aware of maybe until we go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and see what other countries are proud of. Of course it's justified, but our biodiversity is so important, so rich in the world's very top, that we might actually be able to brand it a little better and use it in a more clever way in a marketing sense that it would certainly give added value and added to the local population for which we want to stay living in the Croatian village, because they are the real guardians of our Croatian space and that must be our common goal. Not to mention, it is certainly an additional dimension and additional value for Croatian tourism. And in that sense, surely this declaration is one initiative that surrounds everything that we are and what we want to remain in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97769	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97770	Thank you. Dear MPs Petir and I join the congratulations on this long initiative that has already entered this initiative in seven years when together with 34 of your colleagues in the European Parliament you launched this initiative from Italy, Austria, Hungary. However, I think that this declaration is worth something in any case, but as I asked this morning about how science and this technology are progressing very quickly, unlike the inert nature of political will and political procedures, I am interested in your opinion on what in this sense is going to be done with new processing techniques that are very difficult to expose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97771	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97772	Thank you, Comrade Matula, for the replica. So I think that we can appeal to the European Court of Justice's ruling that new mutagenesis techniques must be considered a genetic modification. And in that sense, science certainly has the answer to the way in which to discover and define them. In Croatia, there are two laboratories to determine genetic modification in food, in seeds, in food for animals. One is with the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the other is with the Croatian Food Agency. As far as I know, they work continuously and quite consciously. I have their reports with the 2020 data and with the State Inspectorate's data and here we can say that we can be satisfied that all samples taken when it comes to seeds were negative for GMOs. When it comes to food samples...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97773	Time. Next replica of Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97774	Thanks to respected colleagues, Petir, therefore genetically modified micro-organisms must not be used in the production of classical food products such as yogurt, cheeses, beer, wine and other, but in the diet they are used with the help of genetically modified micro-organisms and as such they do not have to be declared as genetically modified products. This is thought to be because food additives are not considered food because they do not have nutritious value but only improve some of the properties of food such as colour, texture or volume. The laws are not strict according to the products obtained, so it is very easy to bring in some foods and GMOs even though they would not be seated. Will the adoption of this declaration affect additives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97775	Thank you, fellow Vukovac. The declaration is an expression of attitude and commitment from which, of course, we want to highlight different initiatives. These initiatives, as I said, are primarily related to the consolidation of our OPGs, the promotions of their products that are absolutely free of GMOs, without additives and without anything that would be suspicious, and here we want to encourage consumers and those who buy from local OPGs. We also want to connect such production with our tourism and thus brand towards the guests who come, to be interesting to them because tourism is not just the sea and the sun, tourism is a complete experience, an increasingly gastronomic experience where we have what to offer. I think one of the legal proposals that should come out of this declaration is the labelling of products that are not GMOs, which should be passed by regulations and regulations, and I believe that we will then resolve these misunderstandings that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97776	I'm opening a debate, the first reported Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the Honorable Representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97777	Thank you very much. Any initiative to protect domestic production and combat GMO emperors and those who essentially take over the market for seed and production is commendable, but we are here talking about a declaration, a declarative support, to the idea of being a GMO free country in this Alpe-Dunav-Jadran initiative. However, here I must point out that our children, too, having passed these laws through procedures, were essentially trying rabbits all this time because in Croatia there was no transportation, no breeding, nothing absolutely forbidden, especially when we talk about animal imports of animal meat coming here... So in particular this is another issue that is related to GMOs again, and that is this infamous glyphosate monsant product of which it is made... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cidocor, of which there are numerous people damages, in America we have a number of lawsuits of people who have had health consequences using, spraying lawns this or the matches that have had consequences and these lawsuits are essentially numerous. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this glyphosate is basically the key to the problem so Monsanto we know what it is, it's the company that produced the battle poisons, i.e. which was produced by the US military used in Vietnam, was later reorientated to the production of seeds, took over the market, both the seeds and the preparations that could match that seed. It's enough to mention to our people if this is what they're listening to at this hour. We know what the cidocor leaves behind. I would only briefly say that unfortunately they are our children, and I once cried out here to vote for the Law on the Prohibition of Imports, Transport and Production of GMOs and trade of course GM products in the Republic of Croatia. That's when 90 MPs didn't support me. I also gave the law in the procedure that's loud here, and it's not supported either. I've given the President your honor. You're here on behalf of the Proposer on 4 September 2020. The law banning GMOs would bring that sort of attitude, the law, the declaration that, we know what the declaration is. The declaration is a declaration of support, it is not binding, but in this law that I gave this for the second time that it was in the procedure in the past term. Based on this declaration, it wouldn't be a problem to uphold the law. If my law is not something good a tribune to reconcile it and I have no problem having someone else propose it and I will support it with the aim of protecting our traditional values i.e. Traditional production in the area of the Republic of Croatia which is here and in previous discussions we have spoken of as land. There's also the State Secretary's representative, he's also been this whole time while I'm a parliamentary representative and this was mostly this one here in the assembly when it was spoken on committees, so I don't see any reason why we don't pass the GMO ban law. It means no county in the republic, i.e. They've all brought that they're against it, that for GMOs they're free to ban, that they're free from GMOs. I don't have any, I don't have any objection to the declaration, though. However, we must do our utmost to, as a council, as MPs, declare law on bans, declarative imports are good, initiatives in other countries is whether, even Austria went far the most, I think, the European Parliament, there was lobbying, there was everything from that industry that was powerful, again mentioning one of Monsanto's most powerful. This triba speak openly whether they openly and represent their interests, their means of treating agricultural products and these are great damages. I don't know if anyone's watching maybe a documentary about how to treat soy in South America that harms the population in that area, not just the population, but it's an excess product in that area that's being exported. It's probably exported, not likely, but to Europe. That's what animals consume, eat. We import meat, no one controls that meat that comes most pork, no one controls it, and it comes to us on shelves as cheap food, bad, harmful food for health, and in that part we focus on doing the same. So meat doesn't even control it, because I repeat it again. It is amazing that such low prices are so low in certain trade chains, that it is not such a harmful food, rapidly grown on these harmful treated mainly gliposat. I also gave the law in the procedure in the previous term was also discussed. There was no will to accept. However, I have made that story known that it will be difficult to accept. However, if I think rationally, this law can be the law of all parliamentary representatives who are in favour. I can pull it right now and no problem. The sea is the law of the ministry, the law of the board. However, we must make a stand and support all the states, regions, non-essentially both within Europe and the EU and outside the EU that are fighting this evil. People have big health problems because of this. I know it's a food problem and that the addiction to the seed mossification is really an addiction to me. We don't have, like, a seed bank I don't know, I don't know. There's been talk of something, but we don't have some seed bank, the old seeds of our grandmother's losing seeds. So it's getting lost, even when we went to even modify the seed that it had to be harmonised, modified by some regulations. So we're losing this traditional production a little bit, and that's a lot of damage in the long term because we're going to become seed addicts. He who rules the food, i.e. He owns life with seeds. Food is a basic ingredient, like water and then, of course, energy. So I think it would be worth going to that goal to pass a ban law of course for medical purposes it would be someone else's, it's a law with my proposal that I made and suggested that the Ministry of Health will decide what for medical purposes has, of course, certain medicines that have been modified and they serve to improve health. I wouldn't go into that. But in this part of the supremacy of a multinational company that associated with the EU pharmaceutical industry is a strong company and is moving through the pharmaceutical industry, seeds and food. Because they're the only ones who have, so the means to treat that seed and they've created resistance to that seed, so they have a license, i.e. I don't know. They're the key to the story. So it's the struggle of these great multinational companies against these small people who have their own OPGs, who have their traditional values and then more than traditionally I don't know corn when we're talking in us is the tradition of roasting corn, they're traditional than hybrid or any other. So I think we're trying to go towards that goal to protect the national, to protect as much as possible now, I don't know at all what stage our seed bank is in and if there's any place where we keep the seed. It's also very important, one of the most important topics that we at least preserve and that in the long run we might relive this kind of traditional production, although it's hard to preserve it if in certain areas it's been planting similar cultures and simple wind and pollinating how nature is, because you can't control it. That's where the damage was done. We have a number of court proceedings due to the state of health of people who have been severely ill because of glyphosate and production, and that's all about GMOs, so it's all tied up. But the key is glyphosate, meaning war on technology. Monsanto, therefore, has adjusted the military production later in the seed production industry and, of course, the means of treatment that are dangerous. So here I would once again say that I support everything regarding the protection of the traditional values of our mainly domestic production. This is very important to us, we still have preserved agricultural land, unfortunately processed but potentially long-term for organic production a great potential. So I would say once again to support this, but it's a declaration. But we need to look for a legislative framework and one and the sanctions and one that's going to carry it all out, and that's what I'd like to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97778	The next debate is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97779	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Board, the Honorable Secretary of State. Bringing this declaration is a clear declaration of the Croatian Parliament's position on Croatia's position as a country without genetically modified food, without GMOs. This is necessary in our view for the Republic of Croatia precisely to safeguard its inexhaustible resources that we still have and the Social Democrats Club has no doubts and will give full support to this declaration. However, the declaration is only a declaration. It is our intention in which direction we would like Croatia to develop. We fear that this declaration as well as the recently adopted, or debated strategy here for the development of agriculture by 2030 does not meet the real and crucial and current needs of Croatian agriculture. Namely, Croatian agriculture has been stagnating for the past 30 years, the spot-top is becoming less and less resourceful, and instead of moving forward we are going back and at best as I said we are standing in place. We are very unfortunately food importers have a large external trade deficit in the exchange of agricultural and food products, and right now in a situation where we find market instability for food products at world level we see how important it is to be self-sufficient in agricultural production. These are challenging times not only for the Republic of Croatia, these are challenging times and for the other countries for the EU that we belong to exactly in terms of food production, and we have to say that apart from grains and olives, we are not self-sufficient and that is one of the alarms we need to wake up to. Namely, according to data for the first eight months of 2021. except in the exchange of cereals and olives in which we make a surplus of 174m euros in plus we are in the exchange of fish with 60m euros, meat and fish processing with 11m and tobacco with 300,000 euros. Unfortunately, in all other categories of agricultural food products, we are achieving a deficit. The largest minus is recorded in the exchange of meat, milk, eggs, fruits, food for animals and vegetables. What is particularly worrying is the structure of excessive imports in which the most represented products with the highest added value, such as meat, milk and eggs, and one word, we export cheap raw materials, and we import high added value products, resulting in the collapse of Croatian agriculture, and thus Croatian villages, rural villages, which is seen by a particularly devastating census where the highest migration rate is from rural areas with a high share of agricultural production in GDP. The price of food in the future will increase even more, we hear it daily from all media, and that is what is happening right now, that is what our fellow citizens are witnessing. We need to ensure more self-sufficiency in production regardless of whether it is conventional or organic production, and that is what we must strive to do and in this direction take measures to achieve it. Another huge problem of Croatian agriculture, it is agricultural land. According to some data, we have 400 to 850,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land while our warlords, cattlemen, we know the local torments are plagued with the lack of land, with competitions carried out with competitions that cancel out and with the results of the same. This is only one in a series of indicators that has led Croatian agricultural policy in recent decades. Therefore, just passing one of these declarations to us at the Social Democrats Club is a little light at the end of the tunnel, is the hope that this declaration will also open new paths, that this declaration in these difficult and crucial times will actually open our eyes to see what potential Croatia has. Often here in the debate in the Croatian Parliament we say that Croatia is a country of great opportunities and great potentials, but then we also wonder why we don't manage the team? Where did we get killed in those 30 years? Why did our most potent young farmers shut down their farms and move around Europe? Why can there be better producers in Europe than here in Croatia? And that is why we see in this declaration a chance to follow a series of new measures that should follow this declaration, following a series of new regulations that need to verify everything that is without GMO standards, which should prescribe strict conditions, which means GMOs free, which should give an incentive to organic production we hope will be the way to better production, to organic production, to self-sufficiency and to exploit all those potentials that we have. A colleague Petir is also here explaining why we are bringing this declaration, why we are discussing a series of potentials and advantages that Croatia has and which in this way will actually try to protect. And we have no objections at all, we support it all. We regret that it may not have been a previously recognised topic and policy, but as our people know to say, it is never too late if there is a will. So we from the Social Democrats Club would not only point to what is good, not only to point to what we think was not good but also to open up a story about some new potentials that we see as space in Croatia. So, we believe that Croatia should turn to new cultures, we believe that Croatia should turn to new, but old values in these cultures, that we should return to what Croatia had before and centuries ago, which have grown for our area for which we have both climate and other preconditions. So that's how we look forward to this fact when we talk about the example of successful soy growing in this particular regional area, but we think that we could be the country that will lead other cultures. I also asked you in the replica, where is lana in the area of the Republic of Croatia? Lan is an original, old, valuable culture that has a growing problem in Croatia because it has problems in its production. It's a plant that's kind of heavy on the ground, which has to change, which has its shortcomings in production, but which we should return to our fields, which we should reward and where we should develop other branches of industry, not just agriculture. So then on the trail of that there's another very valuable, very valuable culture, of course it's hemp. And you knew that today I would remind you that hemp planting should be returned to Croatia. We have even been through a legal initiative that we have sent to the Assembly trying to encourage full exploitation of the full potential of hemp because hemp is also a forgotten plant that can be used very broadly, which can be used from agricultural production, food, cosmetic, textile, chemical, automotive in many other branches. What is extremely important is that it is a valuable culture because it is a soil cleaner, so it has a very good effect on shifts and order of cultures and we actually think that, with its even positive actions in a series of treatments, it should be given extra attention. So the hemp contains a very large economic potential and perhaps the right moment when we talk about the displaced and not populated and unprocessed Banija, when we talk about Slavonia, when we talk about our abandoned spaces to turn to what is originally Croatian, and there are certainly two cultures of flax and hemp, and in fact, in one other way we start a new agricultural production that will give added value not only as a agricultural product but through a number of other branches. As I said, the Social Democrats Club will support This declaration. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97780	Next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, respected representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97781	Your Honor. In the context of general knowledge of GMOs, it is important to understand that man has been using genetic modification techniques for 10,000 years, almost all since the beginning of agriculture. This refers to the selection and shine of seeds only of those plants that had the most desirable properties, so fruit size, color, pest resistance, etc. The first corn man began to grow did not look like today, the corn class was much smaller, and the fruit was much poorer. Years of harvesting growing and fertile corn plants have been given the fruit that we can find on the market today. Such a fruit is not considered a GMO, but it is certainly not the same as the natural one from the beginning of the story. When we talk about GMOs, it is important to highlight some advantages, but also a large number of disadvantages. People began to produce GMOs using genetic engineering methods because certain advantages of the cultivation of such foods, or most of these crops, as well as the problems that such food can solve. Such crops are more resistant to diseases, lower exposure of agricultural workers to insecticides on the same surface can be grown larger amount of crops, obtained crops have an improved appearance or taste, loss of thorns, let's say, crop spikes, and that's quite important, then rapid passing of seeds, etc. The fact to be pointed out when GMO technology is mentioned is that the human population is growing inexorably. In the 20th century alone, the number of people on earth rose from 1.5 billion to 6.1 billion while the current number grew to about 7.7 billion and it continued to rise. So how do you feed such a population that is rapidly growing until the surface of the earth, and especially the surface of arable land, is increasing? If it is to judge by current indicators the area of arable land is increasingly reduced due to pollution and wear-out. Solutions such as GMO crops that make a better contribution in the same large field, and they also had to appear more durable sooner or later. Utopian would be thinking that such a solution would come in perfect form without consequences itself. GMO food, however, carries with it a large number of shortcomings and uncertainty, lack of cultivation and use of GMO crops or food is certainly unknown long-term safety for human health and the environment. Possible problems suspected of occurring due to the use of GMO crops or food are reduced biodiversity, possible escape of modified gene in nature, then sensitivity of useful insects such as bees to products for which synthesis information is carried by a modified gene, then the occurrence of allergies in humans, the occurrence of tumours in humans, the transfer of genes from modified plants to humans, the transfer of resistance to individual antibiotics from GMOs to humans, the adverse impact on the environment. As far as human health is concerned, one of the health problems that might arise as a result of the consumption of GMOs is allergy. Some scientists believe that a modified gene, or its product, could cause an allergic reaction, especially if this gene is introduced from an allergens group. Although this has not been demonstrated so far, the World Health Organization suggests that the introduction of genes from these foods is avoided, or if it can be explicitly proven that this gene will not cause an allergic reaction. Some of the GMOs are resistant to certain antibiotic groups and there is reasonable doubt that resistance to antibiotics from these plants could also be transmitted to humans. More and more attention has been paid lately to the importance of reducing the world’s antibiotic resistance and reduced antibiotic intake, so the appearance of antibiotic resistance due to GMO consumption would be very poor. However, there is little possibility that modified genes from genetically modified foods could still be transmitted to humans or to microorganisms inhabited in the human digestive tract. Another concern that arises from the consumption of genetically modified foods is the occurrence of chronic diseases and tumors. Some believe that because of the possible transfer of modified gene from genetically modified food to human organism, there is currently no scientific evidence, although there are some studies that have shown this on rats. What is important to say is that there is no evidence of the adverse long-term effect of genetically modified food on human health does not mean that these evidence will never and will never exist, especially because there is no evidence that would firmly claim that the adverse effects will absolutely not be. Another concern arises because of the possibility that modified genes can be transferred to genetically modified crops in the environment due to pollination and probably close to other agricultural cultures, this possibility is entirely justified. Furthermore, because of the radiation of genetically modified crops themselves, it will not reduce the biodiversity of nature nearby, but it is due to the use of herbicides to which genetically modified crops are resistant. Genetically modified foods most commonly grown in the world are corn, soybeans, cotton, oil rape, tomatoes, potatoes, sugar beet, rice, wheat, carnations, pumpkins, tobacco, chicory, flax, melon, papaya. In commercial cultivation of genetically modified predicated crops, U.S. front, where 73 hectares of farmed land were planted in 2014 by genetically modified species such as soybean, corn, papaya, cotton and others. A recently notorious genetically modified US company Monsanto corn entered the EU, and bought by Germany's pharmaceutical and biotechnology company Bayer. He's been growing up mostly in Spain so far. The authorisation to import genetically modified seeds is very difficult to obtain in the EU because of stricter laws. Fortunately, many European countries are not so open to the cultivation of genetically modified crops. Mostly because of the consumer's lack of interest and skepticism. We hope it stays that way. Therefore, the area of the Republic of Croatia, and the condition of high quality food production, is based on the daily efforts of family farms and their efforts to preserve the indigenous Croatian village and customs. It is necessary to identify the different possibilities of its rational use and the need for its special protection for the benefit, preservation and strengthening of rural local communities and rural inhabitants. The Republic of Croatia should certainly continue to promote and brand as a country of domestic and quality food aimed at organic production or agricultural production and cultivation of genetically unmodified products by supporting the position and competitiveness of GMOs free products on the Croatian market of quality systems and adequate declaration through GMOs free products. So, all I can do is thank the presidents of the Committee on Agriculture to my colleague, Petir, for her initiative and the effort she put into this document. I honestly believe in his success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97782	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative of Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97783	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here I will briefly try to explain in a few words this Declaration of the Alps-Adria-Dunav area free of GMOs. The GMO free region shall indicate an area where live genetically modified organisms are not allowed to be released into the environment or for experimental purposes. In protected areas and areas of the ecological network, in accordance with specific regulations governing the protection of nature, areas intended for organic production, organic agricultural products and the ecological forms of tourism, as well as areas representing protection zones of influence as well as areas declared free of GMOs by the competent authority of units of local or regional self-government. In January 2010, following the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament in the parliaments of the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy, the text of the initiative to declare the region of the Alps-Adria free zone from GMOs was sent. In the Republic of Croatia, there are all preconditions for this policy to be rounded up in an initiative to declare the region of the Alps-Adria-Dunav with an area free of GMOs to support and confirm the declaration of the Croatian Parliament by giving support and advantage to organic farming and the preservation of biodiversity against the proven and risky forms of exploitation of the vital resource of agricultural land intended for the production of health and food of high quality. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the sea, seashore and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life, other parts of the nature of real estate and things from a special, special, cultural, historical, economic and ecological importance are good of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. Due to its geographical position from the Pannonian Plain and the Danube Basin across the south of the Alpine Massive, Dinar Mountain and the Mediterranean, it is characterized by different climate opportunities for which, as a consequence, they have an exceptional variety of landscapes and biodiversity. One of the objectives of the EU's common agricultural policy is to preserve rural areas and landscapes across the EU, which also recognises the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia through the programming of measures aimed at the conservation, sustainable use and development of genetic resources in agriculture with the aim of fostering environmentally beneficial agricultural practices. We keep the support for organic agricultural production significantly due to an apparent increase in organic production areas in the Republic of Croatia as well as a target of 25% of the agricultural area intended for organic farming by 2030 at EU level. Emphasis on the importance of participation and decision-making at levels of local and regional self-government shall be given to support their rights, units of local self-government and regional administrations to decide on the protection and preservation of interest, as highlighted in the strategic documents of regional development of the Republic of Croatia. This declaration proposes a vision of the development of agriculture through the production of a higher quantity of high-quality food at competitive prices, sustainable management of natural resources in changing climate conditions and a contribution to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. The establishment of clear criteria for the labelling of GMO-free products would positively affect their position, these products on the market and would strengthen their competitiveness to contribute to better information and raise consumer protection standards in the Republic of Croatia. Environmental production implies compliance with the organic farming rules designed to promote environmental protection, preserve biodiversity and strengthen consumer confidence in organic products. These rules do not allow the use of GMOs, the use of ionising radiation, the use of artificial fertilisers, herbicides and hormones. And the use of antibiotics is only allowed to preserve animal health. International activities carried out to extend the area without GMOs to neighbouring countries, as wind, insects, water and others do not recognise state borders, and insurance from unnecessary risk can only be achieved through joint activities and regional cooperation by all interested stakeholders. In accordance with all of this, we hold important confirmation of the definition of the Republic of Croatia as a country free from genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97784	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, the respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97785	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's another one of those days that lasts really all day, but from my experience that's not too long, it's unusual for me that three points of the agenda today were, early this morning, from the Committee on Agriculture, that everyone is connected to agriculture and food, and in that sense, they're too important for the lives of all of us. In fact, as much as we appreciate it in the green-left block, we certainly respect all the achievements of science and in that sense all the good that science brings we support, but that doesn't mean that we don't see the simple fact that everything that not only a human being but also other animals eat, but here is the most important thing for us. Still with all the science we are unable to create food from clean elements, from as much value as various food supplements, but we are still unable to produce food from something that has not been alive before. The way we define the life of plants for now, first of all, I'm talking about the life of plants here. Of course, we support the declaration that the Alpe-Adria-Dunav area is free of GMOs, and in every sense, it's something that we would like to really have all the best conconsequences of this declaration and not to be with some kind of restraint and irony said it's a declaration, it's on a declarative level. According to the judgment in the scope of the provisions of Directive 2001/EC, only organisms genetically modified varieties obtained by techniques have been excluded from the use of conventional mutagenesis used for a long period of years and the use of which has been demonstrated for sure until all new methods of mutagenesis developed in genetic engineering have been applied since 2001, since Directive 2001 18 EC has entered into force and are subject to the obligations laid down therein. Here, this is what people who deal with this really seriously and at a scientific level say that, among other things, the EU court's ruling in Case C528/16 provides legal clarity regarding the status of new Mutagneze techniques. A colleague of Petir's board president said that we have two laboratories that check these things out, but to me, people warn me about the fact that in the meantime there is what I mentioned and it's about using these new methods or how they call it new processing techniques and that they are unfortunately in that sense because there is a big capital in the game and that they are in some sense in advantage. And then the question arises, what about those products that come and which are imported products and which are produced in third countries in relation to products produced within the EU where we hope this is well-controlled. Likewise, we have been warned that the new composition of the council for genetically modified organisms is actually extremely promo-oriented. The new composition of the council if you Google it like this you can find the tones, you'll find some of these old compositions, and all of it almost as well, I don't want to go too far, but you try to Google it and you'll see that you can't get just as easily and if you go to 2, 3, 4 pages you can't get the current composition of that council. I would like to say that we are not in this sense even by chance unaware of all new techniques, because it is very complex, it is not a black white thing, and we are not in this sense against science investigating and, with all new technologies, investigating what is possible in terms of genetic treatment and new edit and how they do not call all these procedures for the creation of drugs at least for some serious diseases where there are no other solutions. Normally, of course, it should be done, but if capital in some third countries is looking for ways that we are not currently able to compare in our laboratories and see what is going on and if it goes under our radar and we don't have any money yet, or anything to do the most qualitative ways to detect what science has gone forward in the meantime, and for some reason capital drives forward, while very often relying on everything that we pay public money in universities not only here but also in America and in other countries, money is paid for quality laboratories, for quality universities, and then private universities and capital this capital capital capital capitalizes. It is known how it was proved for Iphone that all the key these patents that had succeeded there Steve Jobs this in uniting, that they were all found in public laboratories at public universities by that endless capital that he had drawn there almost nothing was brought back to encourage further research. And I'm going to end this by supporting what my colleagues mentioned and my colleague mentioned when she mentioned some things that we have to be very proud of here, and other than the flax and hemp that my colleague mentioned, I want to remind here of a Bob that we have normal and a plant that we use insufficiently even though in Dalmatia it is more used and there is such a tradition in culture, that I'm not talking about barley, a tooth, all of these are plants that are in Mediterranean nutrition for thousands of years, than paleolithics. Bob had the part that the peas that came from America brought this one. All of this, if we insist on doing so in these difficult times that are too obvious for all of us and if we discover barley and tooth additionally with everything that has been discovered how strong and important the grains are, I am convinced that we have a lot of chances, not that our cattle are fed with imported genetically modified food. Soy and then we eat meat or drink milk and... [[Intruder: Time.]] eggs of which we may still be at risk. [[Intruder: Time.]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97786	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97787	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and parliamentary representatives, therefore, we have before us a declaration that we welcome Croatia as a GMO free country we truly want, and we are working on it for the last decade and perhaps longer. The declaration we are now discussing is indeed trying to create a situation in Croatia's agriculture and countries in the environment, taking care of self-sufficiency, organic production, shortened supply chains or supply of domestic products, integration of agriculture with tourism and promotion and branding of Croatia as a GMO free country. But here it really sounds very good, but it may be far from one reality, or it is talking about a fairy tale state that we are certainly seeking, and what is good is that in that part it is accessible naturally to the declaration. But that is why we cannot look back on the real situation in Croatian agriculture. Unfortunately, Croatia is neither self-sufficient, nor has organic production at an envious level, nor sufficiently processes produced raw materials, nor connects food producers with hotels, develops enough traditional cuisine, nor has enough shelves in trade chains with domestic products. In spite of all European and national aid, however, agricultural production is unfortunately in decline over the last decade. Last week alone, it came out that we don't even have stock reserves enough, so about 50% of these same stock reserves make up food products. The grains will now be obtained at a significantly more expensive price as we had opportunities to hear than planned and thought that in time these stocks were filled when prices were much lower would not be the situation now. Not so long ago, when there was a seed law on the agenda, we asked why so many GMOs were mentioned a few dozen times if we were actually a GMO free country. We didn't get the answer then. As the colleague mentioned, the original and the basis of the proposal for a declaration in which the call to the Constitution is certainly prescribed by our rights, in particular the 52nd article. We must note that in this same constitution people also have the right to work and the right to live on it. For our farmers, however, the constitution applies as well as to some different constitutions because they are hardly entitled to work, and they are even harder to live than their work. The whole series of laws that the Ministry of Agriculture makes is very often not for the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers as we have had the opportunity to hear and difficulties related to the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act, now difficulties related to the score. In which part of the new law will reconcile all possible needs is difficult to say because there is indeed a lot of need for agricultural areas not enough right now, and in a situation where we may also warlords at the expense of livestock farming lose the parcels that we have worked so far and simply the previous owners will be in an unfavourable position that can happen. On the committee itself, the Minister said that the tenders are and are being created and that no change is being made so that everything else would be the same, that simple changes should be made, but of course they should, and if someone has concluded a contract at 15 or 30 years does not mean that this country in possession is constantly needed to be that man. But on the other hand, I think that it is necessary to make sure that enough agricultural land is provided, that all interested people have enough without having to go to those overlaps or that someone does not have to lose the use of agricultural land so far. We also have, now, the Law of Cooperation that we have been discussing all day today, where there will also be certain difficulties in implementation. These are long-term procedures. Then the problem is to delete the parcels from the ARCOD. The farming strategy that we also had here in the discussion by 2030 could not have included all that as much as we might have wanted it to cover all the areas initially and we were not satisfied with all those measures that were listed there that actually gave us the safety that agricultural production would go in the right direction. What I was going to say further is that the problem is that only in January of this year 103 dairy farms ended their production. It's also a big problem that we keep repeating and the state of milking is getting worse and worse. Many activities were also mentioned by 2010 and then again since 2017. And during the period between these years it means very little to know, so we must note that some important activities have been carried out during that period without which we might not be where we are. I must point out that during this very period, an initiative was given to build a platform for supplying Central Europe, countries related to the Danube strain that has not been genetically modified. The Danube Soja Association was founded with the aim of increasing and improving the production of GMOs free soybeans in Europe primarily in the Danube region, and due to increased interest and demand for food that is not genetically modified. In addition, the increased level of awareness of the society's need for environmental protection also resulted in the Declaration of the Danube Soja which means the Croatian declaration, Croatia signed the declaration on 19 January 2013. The purpose of the declaration is to increase the importance of the production of GMOs in Europe, and the desire is to increase the level of soybean production from the current 3% of processed areas in the EU. Thus, a total of 1.8 million hectares are planned and 5 million tonnes of soybeans are produced by 2018 in all the countries of the Danube region, which would actually reduce the dependence of European livestock food producers on imports. Maybe that's why we have enough soybean seeds today to meet domestic needs unlike other plant species that we don't have enough or we don't have at all corn, sunflower or sugar tail. The Ministry of Agriculture in 2017 notes that although currently at EU level, there is no regulation in Croatia that defines the conditions of use of the allegations without GMOs on food. Some Member States have voluntary labelling systems and certification authorities that follow it. Thus, resorient ministries confirm that Vindija's KOKA, for example, has owned a GMO free certificate to the Austrian certification body since 2015, and the certification process itself began in 2013. In addition to the meat certificate she also received the COCA's livestock food factory. We must also mention and agree that insects, wind, water do not know the borders and that countries in the environment should also be GMOs free countries. However, in June last year, the EU allowed GMOs to enter our common European market. We are wondering if this casts doubt that GMOs are not free countries and what the usefulness of signing the declaration is, if the users themselves will not abide. We believe that this issue has been running through different discussions for many years, and that it would be good to bring this whole debate to an end once and for all. Therefore, we will support this declaration because we believe that it will target the difficulties itself in one better direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97788	Following the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97789	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of a very dynamic, interesting day we've come to a point where there are rare points where we all agree. This is one of them, and precisely because of the sentence that Croatia is free from GMOs and that is how we want it to remain in the future I would like to highlight thanks for the effort of the respected president of the Committee on Agriculture Petir and I will repeat her words that Croatia is a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment, that we are small contaminants in both regional and global terms and more than half of our territories are protected in different categories of nature protection. The Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, and our farmers still produce food in a traditional way. Geneticly modified organisms can be defined as organisms where their genetic potential or DNA is applied in a way that does not occur in nature. This technology is still called genetic technology reconbined DNA technology or genetic engineering. It allows the transfer of certain genes from one organism to another, even among very different kinds of organisms. Such methods in the world are used to produce GMO plants that are grown there for human consumption. It should be pointed out that Croatia has very restrictive legal regulations on GMOs to all those who are all products in the store containing genetically modified ingredients in a proportion greater than 0.9% must be labelled as GMOs. Furthermore, in our country, no cultivation of any GMO culture is approved even in a limited area. There are no known advantages of GMO food, so its appearance on the market is a slightly questionable event. The promise of higher yields reduces the use of agrochemicals and better nutritional values of the product are unfulfilled and the genetic contamination of the adjacent field is not prevented. On the other hand, regardless of the success or failure of the GMO project, consumers must be entitled to choose a clear declaration and to complete information. The adopted declaration covers Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Italy and Croatia as GMO-free countries. This declaration, with the need to promote and brand the Republic of Croatia as a country of domestic and quality food aimed at eco-production, towards eco-agricultural production and cultivation of genetically unmodified products, calls on the competent authorities to make it more clear that they declare GMOs free products, strengthen official controls, strengthen laboratories and, of course, the importance of encouraging different forms of project financing aimed at environmentally sensitive and ecological agricultural products. Let us not forget another very important information and the importance of this initiative, which is the already highlighted fact that the European Commission grants approvals for some GMOs for use within the EU despite the European Parliament's opposition and the European Court's decision, which is why it is important to strengthen Croatia's commitment as a country free from GMOs. As organic farming excludes the use of GMOs, the declaration opens up a space for strengthening organic production in Croatia, and here it is particularly important to encourage different forms of funding of projects aimed at environmentally sensitive and ecological agricultural products and organic agricultural production. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97790	Following is the final debate on behalf of the proposing respected representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. To all those who took part in this debate unequivocally expressed support for the adoption of the Declaration on the Alpe-Adrija-Dunav area and free of GMOs from heart thanks. This support is wind in the back of both us and the Committee on Agriculture, as well as the suggestions that you have made to make even more dedicated work to preserve the interests of Croatian agriculture, Croatian villages and our rich biodiversity. We have recorded everything that has been said, and we are ready to work with you on the initiatives and suggestions that you have made. I would like to conclude that I hope that other colleagues who could not attend this late debate and in voting will show their unequivocal support. I thank the government of the Republic of Croatia, which has also given support and a positive opinion. And here may be something to say about a man who is no longer among us, recently passed on by a professor. Marijan Jošt, a well-known professor from the High Economic University of Križevci, has dedicated a large part of his life to combating GMOs and fertilising domestic Croatian wheat. I think he would be extremely happy to see and testify at this time in HS that there is such a consensus and the commitment of the most important politicians in Croatia that we all want to make efforts together to keep Croatia from GMOs a beautiful, natural and best state that we could only wish for. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u97792	With this, we've exhausted the debate, and I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 260. Good night, everybody. MEETING Interrupted at 22:04 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83006	He will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives, dear colleague Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83007	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the world is in a deep crisis, we have a war situation in Europe, and in these circumstances, the leaders of the countries either rise above their natural abilities and show true leadership or not. And we see various examples of that condition. Yesterday, the Prime Ministers of the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovenia visited Kiev as a sign of solidarity with the Ukrainian people and that is one concrete gesture and I would say brave in these war circumstances. They quickly agreed and held a meeting there with the Ukrainian leadership. We have on the other side of the American president who obviously isn't getting along in this crisis. The Saudi king won't even take his call. It begs the world's dictators to increase oil production because it can no longer import Russian under these circumstances, and it receives reluctances. It's the state of American leadership. We have a NATO secretary-in-chief who, three days after the plane crash in Zagreb, says she fell outside Zagreb. He does not know at all the circumstances of this terrible incident and the events that upset Croatia, but apparently did not upset people outside Croatia too much. And what do we have here? We have the usual competition of the doubts of the main political figures, so in these circumstances, as spoiled teenagers act, argue, not instill trust, not calm the citizens, but use this trouble to show the muscles and their ability to outsmart. And this suggests that we should be concerned, rightly citizens are concerned because obviously our leading people are not able to rise up and be at the height of the task. And I'm saying that not because it makes me happy, but actually it's an objective state. And now the question is why would the citizens trust this government when it says it's good, and right now it's time to introduce the euro for example. Why do you even believe in the judgment of people who didn't stand out for anything? So it is no accident that other countries that are similar to us are delaying such a decision, and Prime Minister Plenkovic's government is in a hurry right now. So he's not giving up trust, and I think it's wrong. What about the renovation? The first moves and public appearances of the new minister again do not give way to confidence. So nothing happens, and yet we should trust the government to know the best and the best moment to change the currency. So, it's hard to do. And the question is, in the end, what would happen to our country at all if people like this had led her back in the 1990s? Would they be wise enough, brave enough, bold enough to spend the Storm, although much of the world did not want the military to solve the occupation, part of Croatian territory. Would you be able to? Surely the answer is no. They would likely continue to negotiate with local Serbs how to resolve the issue. So, unfortunately, much points to these conclusions, unfortunately. I wish it were different and the Homeland Movement will continue to warn of major shortcomings, and I would say the incompetence of certain people. I won't particularly point out the Secretary of Defense. I think we all know that he's been sub-capacitated for his mission, he's not being able to handle it. But we also have other cases where literally ministers are under investigation. So, in these circumstances where we don't know what's waiting for us tomorrow, we have one very fragile power not to use other terms, and the Croatian people can't afford such a situation anymore. They have earned our citizens better, more responsible, more responsible behavior, and this must already be openly shown how it is. So if they're not able to do the job, they should offer their resignations and leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83008	Thank you. We are going to the fifth debate, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague, Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83067	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, believe it or not, this may be the shortest and best description of everything that happens in the fall of a drone whose origin we do not know today in the capital of Croatia. This is definitely the biggest military incident since the Homeland War, but unfortunately those who need to manage these crisis situations have brought so many confusions into the public space with numerous thoughtless statements, semi-information, hasty statements. On the one hand, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Resolute Minister both on the other hand, the president of the state and the commander-in-chief. In addition to all that, we have a day-to-day fight. As of yesterday, we have, in my opinion, an inconceivable statement by the president of the state to ban the flying of Rafael and other military planes over Croatia as well as today, flying over F16 hunters, and that same morning he said he supports the joint action of the French and Croatian squadrons. To me personally, Rafael's flight does not give me any additional security and most citizens, certainly the same. Further security would have given us that our PDO crashed this drone without ending the way it ended up in Zagreb. And I'm not impressed with their flyovers. However, it is also inconceivable that the supreme commando prohibits already agreed military exercise and that creates an impression of general uncertainty. We're becoming a non-serious state so I don't use any other word. And then we are surprised when the president of the Ivica Dacic National Assembly yesterday at the pre-election meeting of his Socialists that the Croats are not ready for a drone, let alone for a home. When they laugh at us like that, and we open up the possibility of them laughing at us. Unfortunately, however, the additional confusion was introduced by NATO Secretary-General with his statement that this drone has no explosives, that he hardly knows anything about it six days after the aircraft fell. An even worse statement that she fell outside the City of Zagreb. And there's a question of all the questions. How safe and secure is Croatia from the NATO alliance, or is it only on paper? What would happen if a vessel like this fell to Paris or Berlin or London? Would NATO's reaction to the alliance then be as pale and milky as it is now with a series of incorrect information, or would NATO rise to its last feet to immediately locate where this vessel came from, with which purpose, was it sabotage or coincidence and would the level of alertness be at the highest level of NATO's alliance? So no matter what I think it's good that we're in the NATO alliance, we still need to stick to the old people, so just trust yourself on your own. Croatia must invest in its military, military equipment not to repeat such and similar incidents in the future. It is also necessary to activate existing laws that allow the raising of unclassified reserves because we are at a time of threat. And it is also necessary to go in the direction of introduction and compulsory military training of 28 days for younger generations so that they can simply handle weapons for God’s sake. And once again, I appeal to both the prime minister and the president of the state and the commander-in-chief to stop fighting because you know who, primarily the safety of Croatian citizens, is creating additional mistrust for Croatian citizens in Croatian institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83129	As the 14th, the Social Democrats Club, a respected counterpart, Hajdukovic, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We heard a lot today about this talk about threats in Croatia from those security evos spoken by a colleague last to those energy or gas and oil supplies. But we haven't heard a word I think since the first pay phone about another vulnerability, which is the vulnerability in food supply chains, the food held. According to the Minister of State Stocks, for example, we have enough grains for two months, Croatia needs 450,000 grains on an annual basis, which means that we currently have 75,000 tonnes in silos or in State goods supplies, and now the minister is happily announcing that with 600 million kuna we will increase it to three months, so we will add another 37,000 tonnes and we will have 112,000 tonnes of grain. Imagine. In a situation where everything is insecure, everything is absolutely because on February 24th, it changed the world as we know it, we don't complement stock supplies at a time when it's a little late because prices have jumped with imagine another month. That's inadmissible. The more we don't even know what the state of the supply is, because taught by some experience in the past, the question is whether or not we have what the minister claims in supplies. I sent an open letter to the prime minister recently, and then all the on-call regime commentators jumped in criticism that it was impossible to ban grain exports. No one read that letter. I told and urged the prime minister to react as soon as possible, not necessarily by banning exports but by measures to ensure food security. Why? Because agrimeteorological opportunities are unfortunately extremely bad right now. Last year was a great generation, but from the present perspective, it doesn't look like it's going to be like that. Why? Because the rainfall is almost gone, wells have almost dried up in Slavonia. Because we have great oscillations at daily temperature, so we literally have morning minuses, and afternoons are envious pluses. And because of the already higher prices of repromation in agriculture, fertilisation is not what it should be. These are all ingredients of a very, very bad breed. It doesn't mean of course that the agrometeorological forecast itself won't change for the better, it's possible, it happened last year, but we need to be prepared that it might not and we need to be ready to provide the most important resource, which is food. If we add more unencumbered land in the state property it owns then we really wonder what we do with agriculture. This crisis in Ukraine has revealed a whole series of shortcomings in many of our systems. The defense, the energy supply, here's the farm. And in a situation like this that we do in agriculture? I'll tell you just a few examples. As regards the tender for measures in agriculture you have, for example, measure 6.2 for those unlisted it is the development of a non-agricultural activity where the tender is completed in 2020, and listen to this final ranking list there is not even today. The tender is not long before 4.1 is closed and the ranking list is still unknown, and it is not known whether or when the same will be started at all. Measure 6 is usually for young farmers and other small farms and is also closed not long and some unofficial ranking list has been published and published. But I want to tell you how irresponsible we are to our agriculture. And not only agriculture if I add to that, and let's say that the tender for entrepreneurs in Petrinja has been annulled and you're careful because the financial perspective is about to expire, the seriousness we're talking about here. People who plan, who report to competitions, who have some expenses to get out all the necessary documents and then have a cold shower like this meet them. Very irresponsible and very credible I would dare tell this authority. So from this pay phone once again, this is not in the service of obtaining cheap political points, and I'm a little tired that I have to be a bad prophet all the time, but get out already, at least in agriculture we have a lot of problems that will just surface because of the crisis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83131	Thank you. Now it's the ninth debate, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83211	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This speech of mine could have a subtitle new normal in Croatian. When the pandemic of the corona virus broke out, we started using the phrase "new normal" to write a letter to a life that was all but normal. Not long after that, the parts of Croatia were caused by earthquakes that caused huge damage. The new normal has become even more abnormal. What's been happening since February 24th when Ukraine was attacked is this new normal, and actually a completely abnormal life has taken us beyond all the categories we've known so far. The peak is for now, and we hope that it will remain the fall of an old Soviet rocket in the centre of Zagreb. Unfortunately, and in this new normal, there was also something that is quite old and well known for Croatia. Our institutions don't function the way they should, they don't meet citizens' expectations and we obviously have serious problems. If we're talking about corona, it's seen through the fact that we're among those who have been vaccinated at least, and we're dying the most. If we are talking about an earthquake, it is seen as a fact that 6 days before the second anniversary of the earthquake in Zagreb nothing was done on the renovation, and then the Soviet rocket fell on Jarun. That situation isn't a joke. Only fortunately, there was no serious material damage, and I'm not talking about possible human casualties at all. But what really looks like a joke is the way this serious incident is communicated to the public. We play with the nerves and feelings of people who are under enough and too much stress anyway. Russia, Ukrainian, was armed, was unarmed, the bomb was 120 kg, the bomb was 40 kg, it was harmless, it was dangerous, it was not intended for Croatia, it was a message to Croatia. Of course, the state cannot control in any way what it writes or speaks in the media and on social networks. But what she can and should control is how she communicates on her own, or how her representatives communicate. First it took 12 hours for anyone to say anything at all, and then we got such chaos as no dog with butter would eat. I don't think it's easy in this situation to give information that will calm people down and give them insight into events, and on the other hand keep what's not for the public at this point. But what we've seen in the last few days can only be called one word, and that's not serious. If you're not sure if there were any explosives on the rocket or if the possible explosives were a bomb or... The self-destruction wait until the end of the investigation, not for days until the NATO Secretary-General enters a mix statement about the Soviet missile's weapons and unarmedness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To be clear, there are many gaps that Croatia is not guilty of starting with the fact that this missile has even come to us, but also in a situation where all the weakness of our anti-aircraft defense has been exposed and in which aircraft the size of the bus falls to Zagreb the last thing we need is chaos in messages between people at the head of the state. There are these days and another new normal, and it's actually something old and abnormal, which is fuel prices. Still, it is not clear why prices have increased so much even though the barrel of oil did not even get close to the prices at which it was several years ago. And when derivatives prices were nowhere near today all countries with which Croatia has a land border have lower fuel prices. Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro but also two EU members Slovenia and Hungary and that is not new. It's been that way for years. The government has been responding lately and new measures have been announced, but what needs to be done is to seriously explain to people why we have the most expensive fuel? Are those giving to the state? Various taxes, taxes and excise duties, or have any other reasons, and can this problem finally be solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83267	Now she will speak to a respected colleague, Raukar-Gamulin, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83268	Thank you. Over the popcorn to the construction site. Some institutions are doing their job today would say many famous politicians knowing the usual practice, so this time, we start from the middle, from the construction permit for the construction of a giant beach that the company Romana set out in the Office for the Spatial Planning of the City of Makarska in August 2020. When you want to build your own house, the first thing you need to do is buy the land you're going to build on. If, for example, the plot is minimal to the mother-in-law that you must contract with the owner, the mother-in-law in which he allows you to build. It's officially called legal interest in construction. When it comes to maritime good only paper that gives you the right to submit a request and obtain a building permit is a concession for building on a maritime good, for building not for renting deck chairs or selling popcorn. Legal interest in the maritime good is prescribed by the Construction Act. In accordance with Article 109(4) of the construction permit, without previously shown legal interest, you cannot obtain unless you agree with the head of the administrative department for spatial planning that the concession contracts attached to the sale of popcorn are accepted as valid concession contracts for construction. But that's not all. There are also consents that you must somehow come up with, but you have no legal interest, no concession for construction, but there are solutions for that. The bodies that know you don't have the Port Captain and the Directorate for Tourism and Maritime Affairs simply go deaf to giving consent and then you get everything because of the 15-day silence of the administration. By the book said someone recently in an interview, it was all by the book. This easy by the book procedures give wings to the investor so he starts construction before his Office for Maritime Affairs later and illegally, but in an invisible manner he arrives at a concession for construction. Activists report papers in January of '21. There is confusion and the truth finally comes out about the fake legal interest on the building permit. There would be an end to every normal state by the book process, USKOK would take over from the Ministry of Construction and the building permit would be annulled. Yes, everywhere, but not in Croatia. In Croatia, the then Minister of Construction Horvat believes that the cancellation of the building permit is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia because the investor would have the right to compensation in market value, so it will not cancel it. The fact that any compensation stems from the legal interest that the investor does not have by the Minister Horvat did not interfere with, nor is it possible to obtain compensation for the purchase of land because the pay cannot be bought. Nothing's even built, so there's no cost. But nothing can interfere with institutions doing their bidding work to the like. The damages business has stopped the election, but it has recently continued. In February 2022, the Management Department for Maritime Tourism of Split-Dalmatia County launched a public collection process for the award of concessions for construction and sale of popcorn with the rental of deck chairs would not again ensure the subsequent exit of legal interest to the investor. Successful because it was recently voted at the eighth session of the County Assembly. In the competition, the requirements for the modification of the project shall be made in order to enable legal interest to be achieved through the amendment of the previous illegal building permit. However, it is impossible in a legal way to make changes to illegally acquired building permits because it is simply illegal and cannot become legitimate to any institution’s maneuvers or amendments. Some institutions are doing their job to change in a legal way, such an illegal building permit should be annulled, and the rest should be on USKOK. Anything based on an illegal construction and tender for a new concession for construction should be suspended because it is not possible to consider the processes legal later if they are based on an illegal document in particular if there is a significant financial benefit on it. This practice, especially in the marine good, must cease. The motion to annul construction activists sent a new Minister Paladini who initially promised quick, effective and transparent action. Here are the ministers. you have a concrete opportunity to act legally. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] We're waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83353	We're going to a third debate on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed colleague Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83354	In every crisis, we must have certain security. National security in the Republic of Croatia does not work in threats, and it does not work on those who should manage the conflict crisis in these serious situations at the level of the president, the prime minister, the defence minister, falls on the burden of what is most sacred, which is on the burden of the Croatian Army. In recent days, the situation around the drone, the aircraft, whether there were explosives, whether it was 130 kg or not, our inability to respond to such threats is a visible message that Croatia does not have a well-organised defence system. How many people between the ages of 20 and 18 and 35 can separate an automatic rifle. How many people does he know? No one. No one. How many people know where his choir is in the event of any threat? Here I am, as a former professional officer of the Croatian Army, asking that question? These are issues of national importance, these are issues where people must feel security. It is not enough that only two Mirages will fly here and at a press conference, the PR-Arski Prime Minister will pass a dog into the sky in non-Croatian planes. It's not enough. Failing in these situations has led to people's mistrust in homeland security, national security. The threats we have to have solutions, and the solutions no one gives except for the PR scans over the pit where the drone, aircraft or plane fell. And what have they solved here? The NATO leader says he wasn't an explosive, the prime minister says he was an explosive, and so we entertain the nation at the same time as we are in this crisis, even before the crisis, rising fuel, gas prices, uncontrollably. This morning at the gas station we see that the fuel goes above 13 kuna, according to 14 kuna, let 15 kuna, that the gas is twice as expensive, the time of seed, means self-sufficiency, which is why the state doesn't subsidize artificial fertilisers because it depends on gas. Will people be able to plant, a colleague from the ruling coalition mentioned that here, from Reformists, we are self-sufficient. It's not true we're self-sufficient. We import 3 billion euros a year from food products. We are importing pork until our Slavons know where to go with our own and boast about our local tower, boast about the Dalmatian prosciutto, it's all from imports, nothing of extra value trust me on our peasant, and that's a fact. Instead of now that the seed, when the threat and crisis are said to infuse our fields, we subsidize artificial fertilisers if the country's tribune is to be given not to introduce the euro and risk inflation that has already been but rather to subsidize fertilisers for peasants to impregnate the country and to prepare it for crops. There's absolutely nothing to be done about it. It's not working. It is this government, when it is not allowed to send your coalition partner Djakic, Deur, to talk, because Pupovac said that they are obliged to set up jobs for us, encourages people from the SDSS as if they were taking care of them, that he said. He dug you up himself. You've been expended by a colleague, Djakic Milorad Pupovac, and you can't say that. And you can't say because he can do what he wants here as a protection of national minorities in violation of the Constitution... with those people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about excise duties, when it took to cut the excise duty, this didn't add up. What about two kunas for roads, so it's not just Novi Vinodol from Minister Butkovic that builds the road. What about Zagora, Luc, Slavonia? What's up with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83438	And we're going to the last debate today, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Grbins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83439	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is quite clear that the issue of security is what is at this point the most marking the life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the life of all of us. And that security issue today has two aspects. One is the safety of threats and the other is economic security. And these two aspects are very closely connected. These days, the threat safety aspect has further increased by a drone crash that took place in Zagreb last Thursday. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues had a serious security breach Thursday. Yes, respected colleagues and NATO colleagues have failed. Yes, we must increase our caution, but respected colleagues and colleagues do not seem to be erasing flights over the cities of the Republic of Croatia. This seems to be a warning, it seems to be a conversation, and this seems to be an agreement on how we will ensure that such a security gap as happened in Zagreb no longer happens again in Thursday. And what do we have in Croatia? We have a first theory that there was a 120-pound bomb in the drone, then a 40-pound bomb, then some kind of bomb, and on the other hand, a statement by the NATO Secretary-General that there was no weapon on the drone. And what's the government's answer? Fly and wipe flights over cities. That respected colleague and colleague is not the right answer. It only increases the uncertainty of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. It only strengthens the feeling and sense of fear. It is, and therefore, the President of the Republic did the right thing when he reacted yesterday. And as we do not do well and as we do not respond well when it comes to the issue of security from threats, we do not do well when it comes to economic security or economic uncertainty caused by inflation. And before the war started we had inflation which, and it should be open, should be fair, not only the Croatian problem. It's not. It began as a reaction and the consequences of the Covid crisis, and was further worsened by war events and Russian aggression on Ukraine. And that's a fact. And he can't just point a finger at one person and declare her responsible for the inflation. But as we have spoken from this pay phone many times, one is inflation, and another is how the state will respond to it. A month ago, the government announced a package of anti-inflation measures and we in the SDP supported it. Why? He was greatly overwritten in relation to what we suggested. And he went in the right direction, but respected colleagues and colleagues in the meantime, war broke out. New things happened, new moments. And what we suggested just four weeks ago today isn't enough anymore. From the beginning of the year to today, we have an increase in meat prices from 10 to even 30%, in 3 months 10 to 30%. We have an increase in food, we have an increase in energy prices, we have an increase in fuel prices. And the measures the government proposed just four weeks ago today are not enough anymore. And as for the security of the threat, we need to keep working and acting and be proactive, so we need to do when economic uncertainty and the fight against inflation are at stake. That is why we in the SDP are constantly offering and proposing measures and we will repeat them today. What the government suggested four weeks ago is largely short-term. We need both medium and long-term measures. Since we know that pensioners are one of the most endangered groups in our society, we need to change the model of pension coordination. Growth fuel prices show that it is necessary to change the way VAT is calculated on excise duties, i.e. VAT no longer needs to be calculated on excise duties and thus to help limit fuel prices. It is necessary to extend the circle of those who will have the right to towkers to help fight energy poverty. Dear colleagues and colleagues should act, act adapt immediately and continuously to the circumstances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83440	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Thank you, everyone who took part in the debate, let's move on to the agenda now. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Mario Kapulica, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83516	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon at 18:00 and five minutes spokeswoman of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia informed the press and on the official pages of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the European and international public that, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, he had ordered a ban on flights over all Croatian cities by combat aircraft, probably on the basis of an article. The 100th century is the 1st century. The constitution states that the President of the Republic is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. We have learned that the Republic of Croatia is in some way exempt from the joint and coordinated action of NATO members and that it closes the airspace and that part of it is above all Croatian cities for Allied fighter aircraft. What's this about? It is a reaction to the movement of Croatian and French aircraft as part of the approved military exercise to which the provision of art applies. 69. Defense laws. It clearly states that the armed forces of the Allies can cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia for training and training within international organisations to which Croatia has access by means of international contracts. Those decisions are made by the government, with the consent of the president, whom I will continue to call exclusively top commander of the armed forces because he likes to be appointed that way. So, the French ship on which the three of us allied states are on board was given by the commander-in-chief of the armed forces the consent to enter Croatia and the exercise and training. Since such a decision exists, the Chief of Staff is based on the provision of Article 6(6). 69th Authorised to instruct members of the Armed Forces in training and training. Therefore, in this particular situation, the power of the Chief Staff shall apply. If that is not clear, if someone finds that something in the law is not clear, I think that this assembly, in the interests of national security and our defence capabilities, should come into contact with the amendments to the Law on Defence and the introduction of greater clarity because it is clear here or at least it should be clear how, in accordance with the defence law, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces is not authorized to issue such orders. Following orders that take place after such an order, at tactical level the commander beamed the air base of the exercised powers if it is necessary to take down the planes. Not Zoran Milanovic but Marko or Maria at the air base must make a decision that if an Allied plane is to be crashed. It turns out that on the basis of the orders of this one we heard in the statement, and we haven't yet seen us taking data from the NATO Alliance and the radar footage on which we should act on their anti-aircraft aircraft for which the High Commander of the Armed Forces of our armed forces is saying yesterday that they don't exist. What are the consequences of the political consequences of this ban, as informed by the spokesman of the High Commander of the Armed Forces? Strengthening trust and solidarity among allies or deepening this mistrust that is partly in public space caused by the previous unannounced entry of the unmanned aircraft into our airspace and its fall to the City of Zagreb. So, we have an exercise involving our planes, we have a Chief of Staff on the aircraft carrier from which they take off on a fully clear and publicly communication mission to support the show of solidarity towards Croatia and its own on Thursday night of defiled airspace. You have a Chief of Staff who knows exactly what this is about and who's giving permits for such flyovers. The Supreme Commander of the Croatian Army in one has the right, has scheduled the vigilance, vigilance of this high house and all of us over respecting the Constitution and the laws and interests that exceed the narrow party and personal interests, has failed in the sea of the nadal interpretations of the Constitution and the law our ability to correct the interpretation of the Constitution and the law and to act accordingly when necessary and thus prevent more damage. I imagine the good in the end I'll tell you just like this, on Thursday around 23.00 we became aware of our vulnerability, we heard that absolute security doesn't exist, that there are things we can and we need to do to reduce the risks of threats that threaten us. We have tensions between NATO alliances and the EU and Russia that have grown due to Russian aggression on Ukraine, but it is justified to wonder if we have any an attempt to create tension between NATO alliance and Croatia? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83579	He will now speak on behalf of the HSS and RF MPs' club, respected counterpart Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83580	Good afternoon, everyone. Here as several predecessors have said, the prices of fuel have gone to the sky, the fuel tank will be more expensive between 41 and 70 kuna. First, to say that the government's attempt to regulate fuel prices was in fact a signal that deregulation was a mistake, the free market of course that the rising oil prices corresponds to speculation and high energy prices, the trade share on the road from the oil well to the final sellers has not been questioned until now, and it is clear that the inaccessibility of the market has led to full liberalisation of prices since 2014 in particular. when we follow this legislative trend, when it is possible for the share of the margins in the price for the final customer of the derivatives to be fully freely determined. So merchants have for years recorded huge extra profits at the expense of consumers and it is now shown that what they have been telling us for years is not possible to limit the margins of traders. However, it is clear that on such unlimited margins many have profited and so has the INA, which last year had over a billion kunas of net profits and the price of gasoline among the highest in the EU. So today, under the strict upward trend of the purchase price of oil, we do not think that the only solution can be to limit and give up the country from excise duties or from the part of the excise duty on which the public infrastructure of transport is financed. But we believe that there is a space for action in the direction of easing the impact on that working majority standard, and above all we need to say who will feel the most impact of this gathering. Those who are rich will likely continue to drive cars, but most actually people will give up where there is a possibility of public transport and use public transport. We therefore believe that at this point it is extremely important that the state by its measures is now an opportunity to encourage and support public transport, that it is unacceptable that in some local environments we are now monitoring at this point the reduction of the number of timetables, means tram and bus, that this is the moment to actually make those promises pre-elections that we have heard in many pre-election campaigns at local level to make transport sustainable, green to encourage the use of public transport best in a way that public transport is actually free of charge. And if that is not possible, the price of public transport is reduced. What's good in this situation is that there will be those who will be able to keep these prices, these prices to pay, so we have to consider that the price of 70 to 80 euros per container for people who have an average salary somewhere so around, about 800 euros is not easy for, for actually realising, we can't expect that many will be able to pay, but those who will be able to pay that income will mean a rise, the share of that income will increase and in the share of the state's income from VAT. We therefore consider and will refer to the government's proposal for a conclusion which obliges the government to develop a model which would direct excise and VAT revenues to subsidise public transport and transport fuel costs to business entities whose item is a significant element in the overall price of services and products that serve the purpose of basic needs. We also believe that those who operate, whose item is an important element, should also be financed, but which means that they operate as small, let's say, OPGs towards meeting the basic needs of people and should be helped to subsidise that transport. How it's going to work out means how the government has to decide, I mean, we're anti-cicimating the answer in which they're going to tell us that excise means are intended, but they can mean temporarily and their purpose is to reroute in this direction. And as far as VAT is concerned, it's probably going to tell us it's wide, so it can go on purpose again to finance public transport whether it means that is financed by those weakest social groups, whether they all [[Intruder: Thank you.]] finance public transport. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83610	We're going to the eighth debate, the IDS counseling club and the esteemed colleague Nemett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83611	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Tourism recently sent proposals to the professional public on the new rules on expert examination for tourist guides and on the list of protected localities. The rules were not without reason to encounter a very heated reaction to the profession, and the Association of Croatian Tourist Guides was negatively manifested according to the proposals of the regulations. Among other things, they believe that the rule of professional examination for tourist guides does not provide an adequate level of education and an appropriate valorisation of the rich cultural, historical and natural heritage of our country. The fully unwarranted assessment of such a proposed significant reduction in the number of hours for the education of guides from the currently prescribed 929 to only 480 hours. However, additional education is required in the case of the management of protected localities, but since another regulation defines the list of protected sites left out many attractive locations and destinations, it turns out that education students will actually need this special part of the exam and will not be needed to obtain a license and guide tourists around Croatia, but will be sufficient for them to de facto only 80 hours of lectures. The professional public and the Society of Croatian Tourist Guides strongly oppose this by considering that it is simply not enough and appropriate, and they call such a proposal a devastating and even cultural development towards Croatian cultural, historical and natural heritage. The disputed proposal of the Rules of Procedure also respects the fact that it also allows foreign citizens to take tourists everywhere in Croatia without proper education except for protected localities which I have already said by the proposal of the Regulation significantly reduced. In the association of tourist guides, they stress that they do not object to the opening of the market to EU tourist guides, but are against the decoupling of education which, unfortunately, will result in the deterioration of the quality of tourism leadership services and the adequate representation of Croatia's cultural, historical and natural heritage. When we talk about a proposal for a regulation on the list of protected units or localities, then it should be pointed out that they are largely covered by under-known localities which the guests do not visit. For example, while some historic cities and monuments under the protection of UNESCO have been completely abandoned. For example, some Istrian cities of extremely rich cultural, historical and natural heritage such as Pula, Poreč, Rovinj were not found on the list of protected sites, which is at least odd and unacceptable. Those who know tourism and tourist practices will know very well the importance and role of tourist guides for the promotion of destination for the often first and direct contact with guests or tourists. I don't think I'm going to go too far when I say that tourist guides represent an important additional value in tourism. Important link in the chain of the total tourist product. It is therefore totally unacceptable that these proposals of the Resort Ministry make damage not only to this important tourist profession but also directly harm all tourism in Croatia. And what tourism means for Croatia is that I believe that there is no special emphasis to be placed on. I therefore call on the competent ministries to review the draft regulations, to adequately consult with the profession and accept reasoned proposals and suggestions. In such situations reason should prevail, not one’s ego. You have to admit the error in the steps and correct it. We at the IDS Club will fully stand by the profession and support the integrity of the profession of tourist guides, and I hope that our position is supported by many other fellow Parliamentarians and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83657	The 11th debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club will now be held by a respected colleague, Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83658	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, I briefly touched the problem of insufficient representation of women in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, and so also of the assembly where we are sitting, where 31% of us are currently going to say that this is an envious figure. However, reality is different, so 31% of us only after fellow MPs went to other functions, and women took their place as replacements. The situation in this area is, in fact, on the trail of results or points expressed in the gender equality index for 2021 published by the European Institute for Gender Equality. Otherwise these points of the gender equality index are based on differences between men and women at the levels of achievement in six key areas, it is in work, in knowledge, time, power, health and money. In the mentioned index, Croatia took 19th place and is certainly eight points below the European average. All that I point out is the problem of insufficient representation of women not only in politics but also in media space, and something about it has just been said by the Agency for Electronic Media, presenting its analysis with the aim of identifying women in the media area by conducting this quantum analysis in the central information emissions of our three most significant television houses. The above analysis was conducted in the 10th month of last year when 93 shows were reviewed and some 2,500 contributions were recorded. There are only 889 women, or more than 1,500, who do not appear in women, and the reason for the appearance of experts in the first article in the prime time was because of the fact that, of course, it was a specific period, a period of pandemic when women as experts mostly appeared and were conversants when it comes to health. In a small number of cases, there has been a reference to gender inequality, human rights and policy legislation and contributions devoted to one or a group of women. I believe that we will agree that both men and women are classified in their own pieces, so men usually show up on shows when it comes to political, economic, security, tax and similar issues, while women are invited when it comes to health, social and education. Although we have female experts who are sovereignly ruling these areas, therefore, economic, political, security and tax authorities, and the claims that media houses cannot find experts on a particular topic were answered by the Advocate General for Gender Equality in such a way as to draw up a list of hundreds of experts who are willing to respond to media calls. Therefore, further efforts need not be made to contact women as an expert, of course, and to improve the numbers of women's representation in the media area, thus moving from 19 places to below the EU average. We must also be aware of the fact that media can be a very important factor in the process of achieving gender equality, and change the perception of women and their position in society. The media can act encouragingly on women to move borders and raise awareness of the benefits of achieving equality. How? For example, there are girls who will want you to identify yourself with women experts who appear on television, very simply. But there are also those who will be guided by the thought of what I don't see I can't even become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83702	As the sixth one, a respected colleague, Vukovac, will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for the Righteous Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83703	Your Honor, today I'm going to talk about a new price shock for our citizens and our farmers. The biggest jump this week was the price of blue diesel that came from yesterday's 8.04 kuna today to 9.54 kuna. Just two weeks before and then significantly more expensive, he had a price of 6.5 kuna, which means that he had a price of more than 3 kunas in 14 days, at the time of the start of the spring sowing when farmers needed more and no crops without that fuel. As announced by the portal Cenegoriva.info basic petrol Eurosuper 95 since yesterday is 13 kuna per litre, and eurodizel 13.91 kuna. I note, parallelly this morning, the price of barrels on the London market fell further by 4.05% while in the US market, barrels cost 4.10%. So what does that tell us? The price of fuel in Croatia is not affected by the price of barrels on world markets. We are aware of the crisis that we are surrounded by but strong economies with them are easier to deal with. The Croatian state of our economy, our agriculture burdened with countless problems falls under the burden of new challenges. The expensive state carries its own tribute. But now there is also an opportunity, by ruling to rationalise state spending and to launch a long announced reform of the public sector. Enough arguments for that move now you have. By reducing excise duties to a minimum level defined by European rules and at least temporarily suspending VAT charges on fuel would lead to a drop in fuel prices to about 10 kuna per litre. This would help relieve households and businesses and businesses, as well as our farmers who are considering whether they will go into sowing at all or store the money they have stored for the dark days. Our country's sovereignty is being threatened every day, the service policy it leads to has allowed foreigners to reach our countries, our waters and our companies. The Hungarians took over our energy, and by way of excessive food imports, we threatened the survival of the Croatian village and put our sovereignty at risk in the field. Have we wondered why the reversible flow of Janafa does not get a useful permit? Is it due to some technical problem, so we're exporting oil to Hungary instead of processing our own black gold? After giving up silently on the purchase of shares of INA from Hungary's Mojo, the prime minister will have to face the consequences of his own policy against the INA and MOL and that is because it is precisely the prime minister of the management policy of the oil and oil derivatives market in Croatia that has completely left it to another country. the largest Hungarian oil company that enjoys the protection of the Hungarian state and, of course, works for the Hungarian national interests. Because of the 10m-euro bribe he was expected to receive in return to leave the majority management rights to MOL in INA, the Supreme Court recently confirmed the powerful verdict to former Prime Minister Sanader. But what concerns the Croatian public more than the verdict itself is why the prime minister has no intention of changing the corruption policy introduced by Sanader and which has led to Croatian citizens paying a liter of petrol 13 kuna today and Hungarians 9.17 kuna and 480 forints, respectively. A year and a half after the discovery of the secret export of Croatian oil to Hungary, the government silently allowed a million tonnes of domestic oil to be exported to Hungary. The price and conditions of transport continue to remain top secret, and the government has done absolutely nothing to enable the oil to go towards the only remaining Croatian refinery instead of the MOL refineries. The main reason Hungary can still keep the price of gasoline under control is that MOL as a national oil company has two modernized refineries in which they can produce most of the derivatives for its market. The Hungarian state also directly interferes with the creation of an oil policy that allows the price of their gasoline to be almost 20% cheaper than it is in Croatia. This is the way Croatia has given up much of its energy independence and is handing over Croatian raw materials without the public knowing under what conditions it seems. By ruling an emergency cost reduction and removing VAT on fuel, take at least one concrete move and help the real sector, which has suffered for years under the boot of an expensive and corrupt state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83723	Good morning, honourable MPs. As always, at the beginning of the plenary session, we have free speeches, or presentations. Today, she is the first and foremost respected colleague of Natalija Martincevic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83724	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about the state of our stock reserves and the necessity for the Government to report urgently to this House, but above all, to all citizens about the state of our stock reserves because, as we know, given the overall situation today, it is a very current topic. Unfortunately, in recent years, Croatian citizens have witnessed the necessary role of the state in crisis situations and the dependence of our citizens on the ability of the state to intervene in quality. In large proportions it was Agrokor where we had threatened the entire one system, of course this biggest covid crisis, and today it is real in front of the war and the war and with you possible market disturbances associated with it. To some of these challenges and these great and whole series of smaller countries has responded very well, to some not good enough, and today we are aware that a series of citizens are wondering if we will tomorrow, such an atmosphere is created on the verge of hunger. It's clear we won't. We are like a state self-sufficient in the production of a whole series of grains, olives, wheat, corn, etc. We are not self-sufficient in meat production regardless of the relatively good situation in the production and livestock and beef and chicken meat. But that, however, regardless of our lack of self-sufficiency, cannot lead to greater problems with the diet of citizens. Of course, the assumption that appropriate measures are taken is primarily through the institution of commodity reserves. We support the intervention decision on the law of the first purchase of the country which is the export of cereals, as it ensures that producers are not damaged in price and that the security of supply is guaranteed. It is also good to raise the reserves from 60,000 tonnes to 100,000 tonnes of wheat, thus ensuring that three months of full market supply is required, and similar decisions are made in other products. It is particularly important that less than 500,000 tonnes of pigmeat will go from a balance of 2,000 tonnes, which is realistic in stocks of less than 500 000 tonnes in two years to three and a half million tonnes of real reserves. These and a number of other decisions I find only some of these most significant, for example, such as seed procurement decisions, etc. will certainly help to avoid serious supply crises today and tomorrow. However, it should now be brought up with the gutters that have been waiting for decades to be used fully as does one Poland in the protection of meat producers, and the same applies to fruit and vegetables, and, of course, that contributes to the stabilisation of the market and the strong promotion of production. It is particularly important to stress that purchases and placing on the market of stocks are not under EU restrictions and there is no alibi for the state that due to EU regulation it has been prevented from strengthening domestic production and preventing dumping prices for imported products. A key measure in the implementation of this programme, which has been ready for ten years in stock reserves, but is not realised, is certainly a release into the work of refrigerators. We didn't ensure that, and then this whole system stands for it, and we expect a report from the government soon related to the state of the coolers, and then the realization of that whole program. If that was what I'm talking about now, neither supply nor meat nor fruit, nor vegetables today would be the subject of our debate neither today nor in any crisis situation. So we expect and require the Government to urgently give a comprehensive report on the state of our stock reserves, on all the measures that have been taken so far, on all the measures that are planned to be further taken. We now have a situation for ministers to partially answer certain questions. Such questions are increasing, so they explain and explain what is happening in their resolutions. But we don't have a clear and complete picture of the state of our stock reserves as a whole. The situation is, of course, that citizens are rightly concerned. There is, of course, half the information and false information and some kind of panic, etc. But in any case, to avoid all of this, here we really expect at the most recent time that the government, as I said, prepares a comprehensively comprehensive report informing the first Croatian citizens, so here as Parliament's representatives of what the government has taken, what is the state of old and whether we have and where the need to feel threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83737	The 12th debate of a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83738	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues at this time, and in recent weeks our attention has been focused on global movements, the fear of bursting this conflict, but in those times we cannot forget about the little people who are terrified and because of the price increase, they are anxious about whether they will be able to provide social services providers and users who are worried about whether they will be able to pay those services. It is ours that we are also talking about problems that have not been solved for a long time, and especially because ministers come, go, the ministries merge and separate, and the administration with a contract to work indefinitely remains. That's a nicer name for red tape. I will talk about the problems of the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on minimum conditions for the provision of social services that has been brought more than a year after the tragedy in Andrasevec. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. And how wonderful, how broad, how imprecise, what does this provision have to do with logic? I know something about fire protection because my profession, I know there's preventive action, preventive regulations, fire alerts, which we'll do when the fire hits a home 10 km away from the fire department. It will burn until it arrives, what should be done, where these experts are, where the network of the state apparatus is to prescribe exactly what measures we need to take. Even firefighters are in the dilemmas of what needs to be done, what should be recommended. So, is it just a smoke detector, is it something more serious? The second system costs, the system burdens homeowners to invest. This ultimately accumulates the price of accommodation, and all during one period when we did not know that these homes would survive, i.e. there was an announcement to shut down these homes and turn them into institutions. The associations were active, and in the negotiations with the ministry they chose to keep homes, small homes, not to be called family but small or some middle homes, then institutions, then only private homes, and then homes in the network and at a meeting at the invitation of the Minister on 12 November last year, the association asked for the introduction of fire protection or fire alarms to be postponed until the fate of these homes is known which is logical until you know that you will exist, which you will invest and what you will be spending. They survived, however, becoming a problem. Within three days, the deadline in which the homes were supposed to have a fire alarm and the fire tip expires, no one did anything about it. So they have not invested in fear of their future, nor can they do so within this short period. The rule is decoded, until then you must have it. Which now raises the question, now people can come to watch and punish. Is that a solution? Is this a procedure? Is that how you do it? Well, of course it's not working. I am asking for an emergency meeting with the Minister of these associations and to agree on how this problem is resolved and I expect that this time we will not be able to hold up until 9 months after the intense debates on the welfare system that I claim to be uninventive, that it is still abandoned, regardless of the new law, that the new law cannot run the system, that the system makes the people who are employed in it and their good will to resolve things. I hope we don't wait until nine months for a new rule, but I'm asking for this to be resolved. And we have another problem with the failure of all of us, that these small homes by law, Article 228, need a leader with high professional training, hire a leader means 600 to 1000 kuna collection per user, so these leaders on the market don't have Let's all think together. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83741	We are going to the fourth debate as an independent representative will speak to a respected colleague, Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-16-0.u83742	Ladies and gentlemen of these days we have learned that a huge part of the Croatian judges refused to fill out the information form requested by the President of the Supreme Court Radovan Dobronic. Therefore, the confidence of Croatian citizens in these judges is at the level of statistical errors, which will say below 10%, and international institutions from the European Commission from The World Economic Forum qualify the Croatian judiciary as one of the worst in the EU. Despite that fact, the Croatian judiciary shows an unprecedented insolence and haughtiness. It is clear who is the main culprit for the key problems in the country of Croatia. He's called the Croatian judiciary. I note here that it is not only the judges but also the DORH, the key political structures and the mainstream media, but are now the subject of judges because the judiciary which should be a role model for all others in Croatian society blatantly rejects the minimum transparency in its work. Croatian judges say we can do what we want and no one can do anything. Indeed, Croatian judges are even calling for protection of personal data. Imagine the insolence. It is precisely the Croatian courts who assist interest agencies and banks in robbing and disenfranchising Croatian citizens by allowing their rights and the protection of their data to be violated. In doing so, the courts do not only violate Croatian laws, but also the EU Regulation known as GDPR. But as well as the Croatian political summit, a good part of Croatian judges can remain and survive in their functions if the application of Croatian laws continues to be suspended and transparency and equality erased from Croatian dictionaries as is the case in today's Croatia. The Croatian public is looking for answers. How the President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Šeparovic, can explain his wealth in public in his property card and, with real estate wealth, also lists 10 million kunas in savings. Plenkovic's government has been in breach of the Constitution for over a year and it does not answer my representative's question of what amount of Šeparović's office has come from state-owned companies. It is public information that the government is obliged to publish on its own, and to answer parliamentary questions is bound by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And that's where we get the key problem. Plenkovic violates the constitution to protect the President of the Constitutional Court in his suspected wealth, and the Constitutional Court's job is to prevent a breach of the constitution. This is called a closed circle of corruption and abuse. A similar situation is with the High Criminal Court and the President of the County Court in the Veljko Miskolin River. In the High Criminal Court, the president of the court, Zeljko Horvatovic, in a verdict to General Branimir Glavas, claimed that until international recognition of Croatia, the only legal military formation was JNA. Please, for Judge Horvatovic, the Croatian Parliament's decisions and the referendum of Croatian citizens do not exist. Such a man in Israel and the United States would be in prison for these anti-reasonal findings, and here in Croatia he is making justice or injustice. His colleague in the court, Ivan Turudic, drives a car worth more than a million kunas and says his car is significantly more modest at the service and that he has won the luxury as a replacement. Indeed, this Turudic thinks that the Croatian public has fallen from Marska and trusts these inconclusive fairy tales. And the President of the County Court in Rijeka Veljko Miskoulin is publicly painted with controversial and dubious entrepreneur Mirko Pavicic and controversial Slavko Linic, who provides judicial protection. This Miskoulin has an incredible fortune, and the whole working life is in the state service. Ladies and gentlemen, the decoration of the judiciary is a prerequisite for any social progress and changes that are necessary in Croatia. In the past, it is necessary to remove the creators of today's judicial situation in Croatia, which is HDZ and SDP and their listeners because only Croatia can be a successful Croatia. Croatia must establish the rule of law and equality for all citizens. It is our obligation to all fallen victims for Croatia freedom, but a commitment to our children. And that's why we're gonna make it. Croatia will be arranged and arranged and unsuspectingly corrupt, semi-written judges and immoral and incompetent politicians will not prevent us from achieving that goal.
