ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u82993	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the Croatian public. Yesterday, here in this assembly, we discussed certain amendments to the Road Safety Act and this after we had been here for 12 hours, wooding about two points related to the qualification framework, so by ruling an extremely important law, they put into debate the thick after 20 hours. So it's impossible to put him on any information show anymore, and now, why? Where could there be motives? Here, I have on several pages a reaction among other things, and the Croatian Society of Medicine for the work of the Croatian Medical Assembly, the Coordination of Croatian Family Medicine, and I have the position of a private lady who is also a specialist in family medicine. Well, let's go through some important things. In the drafting of the law in question that we discussed here yesterday, there were neither appointed members of the working group of professional doctors, either the Croatian Medical Assembly or any other association of professionals, the real doctors of family medicine. The proposals we discussed here yesterday, therefore, which, concerning the identification or suspension of the driver's health skills, do not have any professional and medical background. The Office is a person from the ranks of the Proposer. It was stated that employees of the Ministry of Health participated in the preparation of the proposals in question. This is absolutely amazing data compared to the participation of the administration in health care, here we may be able to talk about the accuracy of this data. Let's see what's going on, here's the doctor of family medicine herself as a person, and she said she was disgusted, that she was appalled, whatever. Instead of taking a good solution from the UK, you look at how they solved it, we have a strange hybrid model that actually turns family doctors into snitches of their own patients because it deeply disrupts the doctor-patient relationship, which primarily, of course, is based on trust. Trust that is very important in the process of diagnosis, treatment, follow-up and subsequent patient counselling. Once this relationship has been disrupted, of course, worse results of the treatment process itself are achieved. Short and clear, if the patient thinks that the doctor of family medicine will cause some of his problems to report that he is incompetent to drive, he will, of course, either not go to his doctor at all or deny complete information about the problems he has, fake any symptoms, eventually go to a private polyclinic examination, pay for it or medicines to buy it on a private prescription because he wants to avoid being banned from driving for a certain time and to go into the system to record his health problem. So it's a very difficult and cocky proposal. Let me once again point out something that is catastrophic. The coordination of Croatian family medicine, there are colleagues and colleagues, you will not believe, the ruling side of the assembly is completely empty. So it was here, they themselves say, they sent open letters to all the clubs of the representatives in the Croatian state parliament, all the independent representatives. Here, this is, this is their announcement, it's publicly available. All the constituency clubs responded, received representatives of the COHOM or at least in a way informed of the consequences of such legal proposals that we discussed yesterday. Can you imagine the only club that hasn't picked up? Three, four, now. Of course, the HDZ Club and national minority clubs. Our Croatian ruling coalition. The biggest horror is that on the CoHOM proposal, the Committee on Health and Social Policy held a thematic session on 4 November on the introduction of a family doctor's obligation to determine the driver's health skills, of course, all in a desire for dialogue to reach all acceptable solutions. You will not believe that the members of the ruling HDZ Committee have not responded or participated in the work of the Committee, so obviously neither in the work of yesterday's parliamentary debates, except, of course, as always, what we have seen here today in this debate on the Agriculture Strategy has been given to opposition representatives and advocates so that they do not understand agriculture. I guarantee you tightly and responsibly as a boy who drove a tractor in the field at 7 years old, most of them don't know the difference between the front and the back of the tractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83047	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative, Marko Milanović litre, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the European Court dismissed Poland and Hungary's action against a European mechanism that punishes Member States for violating freedom and rule of law by denying money from European funds. This verdict is evidence of the increasing federalisation and centralisation of power within the EU and further confiscation of the rights and sovereignty of the Member States. This verdict ended the dispute between the unelected Brussels Democrats and the democratically elected governments of Poland and Hungary who were accused of violating democratic rights and European values and so on. the rule of law. It should be recalled that Poland and Hungary have not yet been approved national recovery and resilience plans, although they have submitted their plans to the European Commission several months ago, the European Commission, which will, in all likelihood, be punished by Member States from now on for non-compliance with the so-called "European Commission". the rule of law and the non-compliance of its political objectives with the EU's globalist tendencies. The pressures and blackmails suffered by Poland and Hungary due to the rule of law which is very weakly defined in Article should also be remembered. 2 and 7 on the EU, such as the weak definition of the rule of law, are also poorly defined mechanisms available to the Council or to the Commission for penalties in non-compliance. I have already spoken about the rule of law several times over this speaker, but it is not a waste to ask again what this concept means at EU level. whether the rule of law may contain uniform elements for all Member States if we know that each of them is cultural, historical, secular and economically unique or different. The European Council, Parliament and the Commission should respect the national identities of Member States which are inseparably linked to their political and constitutional structures. The rule of law since yesterday has become a political weapon to punish entire nations for implementing policies that are not in line with the EU's growing federalisation agenda. This is one of the most embarrassing events that could have happened within the EU structures. European Commission President von der Leyen triumphantly threatened the Polish and Hungarians yesterday, and with a verdict announced, I welcome the court's confirmation of the legality.../incomprehensible/... conditionality, the Commission will also defend the Union's budget from violating the rule of law, we will act decisively. And when I tell the Poles and the Hungarians, I don't mean the political elite, but the Polish and Hungarian people who will obviously be punished because they chose not the Brussels listeners, but the government that goes to Brussels with its own opinion and opinion, unlike ours, which goes to Brussels with an open heart and mind longing to leave another small part of Croatia's heavily elected sovereignty in order to please its patronate. Croatia as the youngest member of the EU who does not have or will soon have an impact on EU economic development and development policies to the extent that they have, for example, Poland or Hungary must wonder what this verdict means for us and our position within the EU. We should ask ourselves what kind of community Croatia is in today. Are we going to become the most common province on the edge of a federally arranged superstate or are we still part of a community of modern Member States? Do we have the right to set priorities, policies and reforms that will benefit both Croatians and Croats, and which we will be able to implement without fear of retaliatorying from the Brussels bureaucrats? But I did not come here for a pay phone to advocate leaving the EU or disbanding it as many would interpret it. There are advantages to Croatia's EU membership, but there are also great dangers of the direction in which the EU is going. Croatia must stand in the defence of Poland and Hungary, we must fight for the rights, sovereignty and self-determination of the internal policies of the Polish and Hungarians because if their rights within the EU are at stake today and this is what is being evaluated today by those who can guarantee that the same will not happen to Croatia in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83111	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Erik Fabianic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83112	... And colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Vice President. I will talk about an ungrateful topic that is happening these days in Croatia, but which began over the past year, i.e. the topic is quite current, and it is about taxation of cross-border workers. In principle, I'm going to say first and foremost that the IRS is right here. So persons working across the border who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, they are Croatian taxpayers, but now they follow that, but we need to get into the geneaze of this problem and why it is happening. In the first two years of Croatia's entry into the EU, the issue of freedom of movement or participation of Croatian workers in the labour market in EU Member States de facto was either frozen or not possible in the first 2 years, and this was worth until 1.7.2015 when it was liberalised by individual countries as well. The Republic of Slovenia has invested veto rights over the next 3 years. What was worth to Slovenia was not valid for Austria or Italy, which is to translate it into meaning, which means that the Croatian worker can conclude and I have spoken of it several times for this speaker, sign a contract of work with a foreign employer based abroad within the EU member state, citing a Croatian address. And that's where the problem arises. And this problem proves the state's unpreparedness to inform its citizens, the sloppyness of the state to inform its citizens through various information mechanisms about what their rights and obligations are as cross-border workers because the fact is that income is first taxed at the source and what is paid abroad the difference must be paid in Croatia on the basis of bilateral contracts that Croatia has with most of the countries, so the neighbouring countries that cover cross-border work. Did we negotiate well? Is that right? You'd be able to talk because I'm going to set an example. There is a bilateral agreement between France and Italy as well as between France and Austria, as between Italy and Austria under which migrant workers tax only and exclusively in the country of residence. So they don't tax at the source where income comes from. The exception is the Swiss Confederation which, specifically speaking with Italy, does not have such an agreement, they fully tax in Switzerland but have an obligation, e.g. to directly pay into the budgets of cities and municipalities located next door with the Swiss Confederation. But it's been missed for six years. And now what these people would say is killing a cow for a liter of milk, is it enough to forgive interest, is it enough to forgive punishment for tax evasion? And there's another fact that's extremely important. It suddenly turns out that state institutions don't communicate with each other. Zoran shows that it is not enough to log out the residence but that the person must also be checked out from the tax administration. That means he has to check out of health care, that he has to sign out of retirement, so what's the state for? So whether a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is going to go to work abroad is therefore not related to cross-border work must visit the institution for a month to receive it and to log out. Where's the money spent in information, where's the pooling of databases? What's all this for? So for the debt that came to pass today, it's unfortunately the country's fault because it didn't inform them well. That's why we're counting [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We find it appropriate to forgive at least part of... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83332	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83333	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This short five-minute speech is held firmly on two legs, however, partly supported and hands on the pay phone. But now imagine me bending down and holding my hands and standing on my hands like that, standing on my hands, giving a speech. Perhaps on the one hand, he would challenge the respect of my physical preparation, if it were able to do so, and on the other hand, a small questionnaire as to whether such a position for giving a speech is appropriate to parliament. Now imagine in that same position standing on my hands to suddenly raise one hand in the air and keep talking on one hand, that would already be a big acrobatic, and then raise the other hand, and somehow I'm standing, and I'm not standing on my head, standing on my eyelashes. Why am I saying all this? A lot to read out of your tongue. The government's hyperbole of saying that yesterday, although they stand on eyelashes, I will not replace any minister. It is as if the question of the need to replace or non-replace ministers is about what kind of opposition the acrobatic or attempt or appear in public or how much we will paint and throw so that it is a reason or not a minister's shift. No, Plenkovic, reality, reality changes ministers. After hearing those statements which he buried all of his colleagues who were in HDZ earlier that year, that they could not be held accountable for what was in HDZ before him, it happened that a European public investigator had to prosecute crime where not the main state attorney and USKOK would not find the basis based on the same data as the European Public Prosecutor. What does it mean to put on the eyelashes? I'm not taking over the ministers. For example, if this wind power plant affair continues, Minister Coric ends up in Remetinco. Will he still be a minister? Will he do his ministerial work from Remetinco because Plenkovic has promised that even if we plant on eyelashes, they will not replace any of their ministers. What if this situation continues in Banovina and the city of Zagreb, where all this story of restoration is like some orchestra that is constantly being readjusted, and it cannot see through, is not going to start. How long will Minister Horvat keep? By the end of the year, how generous did Radimir Cacic or by the sixth month give him the second small coalition partner Dario Hrebak? Are we the hostages of one man's faith? The ones we're trying to metaphorically plant on the eyelashes for some things? Is that the result of one of our whims? On the other hand, there are complete disturbances in the public presentation of the problem of Croatian society? The problem is that some politicians are immorally using privileges they do not have the right to, but it is not the same sins where hundreds of millions or even billions of sins are lost and sins in which someone has slaughtered tens of thousands of kunas, and may not have had the right to do so. Of course we should talk about both, but we must set the hierarchy, the priorities of the problem in Croatian society. I think it would be based on this last one, precisely to clear up and stop public entertainment on this subject, that we should really encourage in the Assembly a change in the legal framework and the rules on all fees and benefits paid by parliamentary representatives. I'm not a demagogue, I think a parliamentary representative should have a decent salary like any other public official but that salary should be justified by his work and results. The public needs to know that there are a lot of people who would be doing this zero kuna job of ours. Not only for zero kunas, but who might be paying 50,000 kunas just so I can be in a position like this. Why? Because through crime and corruption, there will be ten times as many. We here make decisions on individual laws on where hundreds of millions and billions will run. And that's why you don't need to look at 1,000 kunas up or down, but you should look at it where morally there's no right to certain benefits and privileges, and some colleagues did. So I'm taking the opportunity, so let's start the initiative, first of all, to abolish this pointless compensation for a separate life. Let us consider other privileges of the MPs. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83334	Thank you very much. Please, please. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83405	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, so on behalf of the SDP Club, the topic I am going to talk about today is a topic that has occupied Croatian space in the back of several months, and what is certain is that it has occupied both European and world space even longer than it has occupied the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's about inflation, energences of energy prices, fanning the price of food products, actually rampaging everything we have that we can buy on the market that we don't now have the development of all the products that have grown the price. Of course, on the one hand, it causes the emptying of the wallets of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, and on the other hand, as usual, it has shown all structural shortcomings in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. What is interesting and what I must begin to point out is that more developed European countries came out several months before Croatia with their anti-inflation policies and packages that needed to reduce inflationary pressure on their citizens. We've been, as usual, always made it happen so far, that it doesn't exist, and that it's going to sort of go past us. Of course, this did not happen, and of course there was a huge panic during this period of the year when it became clear what would happen to gas and electricity prices, which has been happening for several months now with the prices of gasoline and diesel, as it has become too much of the goods of broad consumption, and ultimately we see for ourselves what happens in part because of inflation, the second part because of government policies with real estate prices, construction prices and housing prices. And all of this when we add and subtract is something that certainly casts out the grains of suspense and fear among our citizens as if the psychosis created by the crown wasn't enough. However, to not turn out to be just a criticism we must say that, unfortunately, some things have not been launched earlier today, we can say that this first initial package of measures presented by the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is definitely something we need, which we can welcome first, and we are pleased that it has proved possible to achieve at least a media consensus and media dialogue with the representatives of the opposition because much of what we see in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is something that the opposition has already highlighted in the past few months. To remind the public, the SDP began to come out a dozen days ago with its packages of measures that concerned the exact work of what with the energy, what with the prices, which is waiting for us when we enter the Eurozone and the mass of other things which I would like to stress in particular now that we have sought both the vouchers and the help of our pensioners as we have sought and indexed pensions, where I think we have been a little caught in the past few years. So from this point of view, there is definitely one satisfaction prevailing, that a single agreement has been found and that yet, in a certain way, with a single correct package of measures, it is going to help our citizens and our economy. What we leave behind as a questionnaire is why it comes into effect only with 1.4 because there are some things between us all this time as we would like with the voucher situation towards the pensioners to really make a clear indexation and to announce to the pensioners themselves that they will behave in the next period of their retirement. And to conclude, as of 1.1.2023, we are entering the euro area and we think that the statement by Boris Vujčić, who has paid twice as much as the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, that citizens watch out for what trade chains they will go to, is not something that is responsible by the governor of the CNB who should lead the policy of price stability and is not a good and correct advice. We believe that it is also the deadline not to wait for autumn, but to already introduce price monitoring and to simply monitor how in which market and area of goods and services after these announced VAT reductions and taxes will reflect this on product prices and that the country simply shows its control role, to clearly distinguish what was a real addition and what was a classic hunting in a blur. So, we support the first package, but we are still looking to move forward as soon as possible to index pensions, price monitoring and further develop much more long-term measures because this inflation has also shown all the fragileness, all the weaknesses and all the problems our economy has in its core structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83490	So, first, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak will speak, she does not, she loses her right to speak, and then the second, the respected representative Grozdana Peric, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will use today's free speech to once again point to a perhaps insufficiently prominent topic that occurred in the last ten days, which is that the European Commission's assessment of GDP growth by 2021 for Croatia has increased from 8.1% to 10.5%. This is the second fastest growing economy in the EU since Ireland, although the EU average is 5.3% in 2021. It is evidence that the growth of exports and personal consumption and the tourist season and measures of the Government that were made during that period in 2021 had a very strong impact on GDP growth. In this context, we can mention exactly these measures that are now presented yesterday and which will make a significant contribution to having a much better economic and economic situation in 2022, and also in this context we need to observe the opening of accession discussions in order for Croatia to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development or so on. Shorter OECD. This is the last and most important international institution for which Croatia should become a member after joining NATO and EU membership. The fact is that we have met many criteria so far, but there are others that are being further evaluated. This also makes us classified in countries that are respectable and that thus hold us to their economies. The OECD currently has 38 members, and the evaluation for entry is carried out in 20 technical committees. It is an organization that was founded back in '961, and right next to the Schengen area and the Eurozone this is one of the priorities that will strengthen the economy and the international position and influence of the Republic of Croatia. The OECD is the easiest to describe as a large consulting house that has no power over its members, but is a fundamental programme for increasing the economic growth of Member States, increasing living standards and expanding international trade. The importance of membership is in their analysis and research that is not publicly published and provides useful grounds for economic exchange of good practices and policies. For example, we also had a recent process of negotiating the reform of the global tax system where the tax minimum for large corporations is set at 15%. It has been decided that large multinationals must also leave part of their income to countries where these revenues are realised. Thus, international relations and contributions to the development of the economy are highly regulated. That is how the OECD recognized us as a country that respects the principles of the market economy, democracy and individual freedom. As the EU, the OECD is also a political economic club of countries that seek the clear values of democratic capitalism. I would like to point out that these last measures, presented yesterday from 4.8 billion kuna, will very much work to ensure that the most sensitive groups of citizens in agriculture and fisheries are also protected in order to facilitate the prices of gas, electricity and gas prices, as well as to mitigate the rise in food prices and other supplies. In fact, it touches all layers of society and direction and contributes to the preservation of jobs and purchasing power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83562	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Today the top topic was agriculture all morning, i.e. the situation in Croatian agriculture, and today I will speak on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, offered by a fellow parliamentary representative who is not here today, or is not here now. I think his last name is Ivanovic. Anyway, it doesn't matter that there aren't enough experts around here, when everyone's a big expert. Then I went to check, googling, and I saw that he had a medium professional equipment and that he was a merchant by profession. He's just missing more fog, probably a fog dealer. That's the first thing. He was talking about something very interesting and what intensity is in Croatian agriculture and should be, and that is so-called. Rounding up. So, circle around, team up, form cooperatives. It is the idea of Stjepan Radic back in the 20s, which began in the 20s. It is the original HSS Croatian political idea of improving Croatian agricultural production. Afterwards communists plagiarized during Yugoslavia, they started with a Stalinist model that did not come into life, but quickly moved on to a model of socialist so-called. Roundings in PICs. These PICs not only worked well, but by the end of the 1980s, so until before the collapse of the state some of them became truly giants owned not by the Republic of Croatia, but by people. So people who owned social property. They existed, there was this circle that was under the guise of communist fiction, which is therefore a lie because it is Radic's, not fiction, but an idea abolished but not abolished so that there are no large owners today. There's a lot of them. These are the people who robbed all these PICs, all those combined, all those cooperatives in the 1990s in that robbery of Croatia called privatisation. So, there is a destroyed Croatian village, there is a destroyed Croatian agriculture, and there are tycoons that are still very, very big, very big today, and there is no need to make that circle, but there is what is the worst of all these privates are well private, so the great owners, tycoons, towers, if you want political ties created now that same round agricultural land sold to foreigners. My colleague was talking about the Hungarians. Well, the Hungarians were never our friends, so the Hungarians stole our INA, stole our strategic resources. What kind of friendship and support to the Hungarians? We should stop what they did to us with the Hungarians. I wonder if there's someone Orban here, is Orban paying one of our parliamentary representatives to talk about a man who draws Croatian oil and Croatian gas to double what our T.C. is selling to us. I spoke. It's Croatian, ours. It's a Croatian interest. Therefore, if we want to restore Croatia's village, rebuilding Croatian agriculture needs to solve crime from the Croatian privatisation robbery, it is necessary to take it back, return it to Croatia, return it to the state and then give it back to the same land in a fair way, in public tenders to those who really want, who know and who live from their work, agricultural production in the country and this is the way of recovery not only of Croatian villages but of all Croatia. Because without strong agriculture, without only decent Croatian agriculture there is no Croatia. Remember that. Without the village, without the Croatian village there will be no Croatian work, neither will Croatia and very, very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83600	The next club of MPs will be the IDS, speaking the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83601	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to warn from this place about the problem under the Law on Unrated Building Land, which regulates and regulates issues related to the availability of tourist land. What's this about? At the beginning of May last year, he entered into force the mentioned Law on Unrated Building Land, which ceased to apply the previous Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation, as well as all the regulations are laid down by the law. The new law regulates, among other things, the management and availability of tourist land on which hotels and tourist settlements were built, which was not introduced into the core capital of companies, hotelers and tourist companies. The tourist land should be particularly highlighted, it is owned by the unit of local self-government on which the land is located. The law therefore provides logically for units of local self-government with companies using tourist land to contract the lease of that land for 50 years, and for this use, the company is obliged to pay the city or municipality the rent. The law also provides for a range of the unit amount of the lease, the manner and time limits of payment and other orientation criteria for the determination and calculation of the lease of tourist land to be regulated or defined by a regulation that will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and until this moment, the majority of issues under this issue are regulated and regulated. But as this usually happens in our country, it is expected that there will be some kind of illogicality, some mistake in the system that will then disrupt and spoil and what little may well be imagined and envisaged. Namely, this regulation that will define the gauges within which cities and municipalities will be able to determine the height and other terms of the lease, the government is obliged to adopt within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. I'll do it again, it was early May last year. But guess what, despite all possible deadlines, the government has not brought the regulation to date. So we have a legal platform, the basis is there, but the most important one, a regulation that will allow for the operational implementation of that law so far, no sign of a voice. It is clear that because of this, cities and municipalities were unable to charge the rent of tourist land, starting in May 2020 until today, with all those who needed to lose significant amounts. Thus, it is clear, too, that public budgets are suffering from a good start to the crown by the crisis anyway. The budgets, which we know well, take care of many vital needs and the communal and social standard of residents of these cities and municipalities, which, by not passing a regulation, have been cut off for significant funds. And I'd like to warn at the very end of this one no less important fact. I have already warned of this issue and asked for the RS government's response in early December of last year. Despite the obligation to answer the question of the parliamentary deputies within 30 days, we entered, behold, in the 70th day and the answers, unfortunately there is no. I therefore ask the question from this payphone, I refer it to the public government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and the question is simple, when will they finally fire this unnecessary brake and bring the said regulation in order to enable the application of the law that they have proposed themselves, which we have adopted in this House? I ask, but at the same time I appeal that the regulation is finally passed as soon as possible without further delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83679	On behalf of the Club of Representatives For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u83680	I'm going to talk today about the breakdown of Croatian villages. If you drive through any village at night in every five houses, there's a light burning because four houses are abandoned. And where the light burns some grandfather or some grandmother lives. The villages are very often destroyed and not only where the war was, but even along the borders with developed areas like Slovenia. You're wondering where people are. People moved intensively between 2000 and 2010 when the last system of buying milk, organized buying-in of cattle or fruit and vegetables was completed. They left when the last laxative in the village was closed. In a regulated country, the state encourages organised production of agricultural raw materials, in any normal country, the agricultural producer is related to the national food industry which in some ways corresponds to the executive authority. In Croatia, we do not see that the state actively participates in agreements under which prices and quantities will be purchased through the processing industry even though every regulated country does so. It is unimaginable, for example, that in Italy Parmalat suddenly stops buying milk from Italian cooperatives and produces parmesan from import milk. Such an unimaginable thing is in lands that respect man and his own rural space. It's very difficult to develop undeveloped areas. The State must first of all provide mechanisms for the organised purchase of agricultural products. Agriculture has always been the main industrial branch in rural areas, and the newly organised purchase of agricultural products has systematically destroyed Croatian policy. This makes an important difference in the rural area by looking at pre-war and post-war periods. In no country with a regulated agricultural market, we cannot find ads written by hand on country fences for selling blankets, lambs, honey, eggs. It's the best indication that an organized ransom actually doesn't exist and that every desperate farmer is trying to take care of himself. The regulated countries have a system of control or a system of market negotiations. A kind of fairy tale of the free market serves only pseudopolitical elites run by colonial and semi-colonial countries such as Croatia. Every normal state has its own planning economy. The market economy in developed countries is well planned. It's run by private owners. Primary producers are organized into cooperatives, and they are also private citizens, however, all those with governments and the food industry agree in advance on the quantity and price to be achieved and thus organise the buy-in system. More often, farmers’ cooperatives are owners or co-owners of the processing industry to which they sell their products. So, for example. Austrian farmers have seven-year contracts and 7 years in advance know the price at which they will produce, and at least 2 years in advance they know exactly at which price they will be bought what they produce. This is how organised agricultural production works. It's the strategic interest of the state to have an industry. Each state wants to keep jobs and has a strategic advantage in some industry, for example, the Italians already want to keep their position, and they do so by wanting to keep their jobs in the food industry and millions of farmers organized into cooperatives, in Croatia, our government is obviously not interested in such a model. Some of our industrial companies were at the top of the world in their dams, it's not true that all that industry was meant to fail. It failed only in the 1990s because of the criminal privatisation model and because it was the new political elite was not even interested in doing anything with the Croatian industry, let alone saving it. In the 1990s, Croatia has opted for a tycoon form of economy in which the political elite and a few of its close individuals control the market, not for a large number of citizens to have the right to decide and to benefit economically from it. Today we see all the destruction of this model, this country is demographically and economically destroyed. Today's model of resource management has put us in a poor semicolonial position. Gentlemen ruling, your model is exhausted. Croatia needs a new model of governance, one that will bring well-deserved prosperity to the Croatian people, not poverty and hunger that you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92632	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. In accordance with the announcement we are starting with: - Proposal for a Agriculture Strategy by 2030. You're replicating my presentations or the exposure you're expecting? Well, write it down slowly to make it easier. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Seven. Agriculture law, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture. I would ask at the outset that, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vučković, would explain the proposal for a Agriculture Strategy by 2030. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92633	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92634	And we don't see that the break is because they're strong, come on like this, it's an injury, let's concentrate a little bit. So you've picked up a bunch of injuries or replicas and how to recognize that it's a pause. So, let's put down the replicas of the tiles first, let's go, so let's go in some order. So, who's calling for a break? A colleague of Petrov's. Is anyone else picking up for a break? A colleague of Hajduković, a colleague of Peović, a colleague of Pavliček. Okay, then let's take it in a row. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92635	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on this topic of the Strategy of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. I'd like to hear first from the minister an explanation why this isn't for example. the full name of this document. The original name of the document was the RH Strategy for Agriculture from 2020 to 2030, such an ingenious solution that since in 2022 you only deleted from 2020 because it is probably very embarrassing to admit that already 2.g. We're late for this strategy. Besides, what's changed exactly for agriculture in the last 20 years.? There is a full list of HDZ promises, 2016, which will change. You promised the new Agriculture Act, which you did exactly the last 4 years.? The agricultural law has changed 28 times in 30 years, since 2018, since you changed the Agriculture Act, you haven't solved any of the state agricultural land. What does time mean to you? What did you finally accomplish with what you did or did not do? The depopulation of Croatia took place, half a million people left Croatia, agricultural areas are abandoned, people do not process them. What has changed exactly, what makes the agricultural strategy that you will present today special for Croatia? After nothing. Where are the measures specific and necessary for the agricultural Republic of Croatia? They're gone. You could've given this program to Zimbabwe. He'd have the same This well accepted [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] There are no specific measures for Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92636	Comrade Petrov, thank you very much. The apartment is approved. He's reporting for a violation of his colleague Piletic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 238, it is absolutely humiliating to listen to MP Petrov calling the Minister for Not Making a Strategy in, from a man who twice brought down his own government. Then he didn't even think of a strategy for the development of agriculture. and at his club [[Employer: A colleague...]] the cities managed by the Most did not even provide a programme for the availability of agricultural land. [[Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92638	Comrade Piletić, you are being warned, this was a replica, this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I am asking you now that I must, of course, also give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but let us not make a circus again and not go in the wrong direction, we have not even started to work yet, and we have already entered this one in breach of the Rules of Procedure and abuse in matters of the Rules of Procedure. We've got two more Rules of Procedure now, my colleague Grumoja first answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92639	So, he's injured. 238, the only thing that's humiliating is listening to a fellow who talks about what local self-government brought in, and in 2016 you promised 426.000 hectares. Put in a function, you know how much you put, 10,000 [[Stammers: Collar Grmo, same thing.]] You know how many of them you put into function 5 and temporarily. [[Employee: Comrade Grmoe, please stay a colleague of Grmoi]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92640	You're getting your first, first warning from a colleague of the bush. Come on, please. My colleague, please, so what is it now? Come on, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92641	You will not warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92642	I gave him a warning and I gave you one. ... Well, you've been throwing the same thing. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on, Comrade Petrov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92643	Dear colleague, by risking my warning, I'm calling for an article. 238, so let me get to know you. The Minister of the Bridges who was Minister of Agriculture was the first to give the first irrigation system in the GLOG contest, And you know what's happened to that GLOG since you took over the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Employer: A colleague of Petrov]] the system does not even have the permission to use it. [[/Agreement: You get the first warning from your colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92644	Comrade Petrov, you are being warned. Now I invite you, please, there is a possibility through the explanation of the pause to state your views, there will be a debate, let's not violate the Rules of Procedure with these violations of the Rules of Procedure because I don't think it's pleasant for our citizens who are following the session anymore. Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club so we can think about this proposal a little bit, and I'll tell you why. 2016 on my direct question on the Committee on Agriculture at the time, Minister Tolusic, when we are going to discuss the strategy, the strategy is over, practically drying the letters, only it isn't. 6 g. Later, 6. Later on, we're talking about a document that I'm ashamed to discuss with my colleagues and colleagues. To use the Minister's eloquence when he says this is a list of good wishes, but it's not, either, there's no direction, there's no vision, there's no strategy. Well colleagues and colleagues, I am ashamed, ashamed that this strategy was written on the basis of a report from the World Bank which used data from 2017 from colleagues and colleagues, 2017, even if there was no pandemic situation in agriculture 2017 and today or last year is heaven and country. And we will discuss strategy based on such data. Well, we've seen your strategy of ministers and colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, we've seen the Seed Act, we see the Agricultural Land Act you're proposing. It's your strategy to choke small and medium-sized farmers, to stay only large, to remain only GMOs. Now, this is the HDZ strategy on agriculture, destruction and how little it has and how it will reflect on, demographic opportunities in, say, the east of Croatia, which today is rather dependent on agriculture and the accompanying industries, catastrophically. If we've been burying agriculture so far, now we're throwing the first lump of land into this strategy and that's why I'm asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92646	You're getting a break. Let's move on now, colleague Pavlichk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92647	Dear President, I demand a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to reiterate once again that the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture have been in the last 20 years. Completely devastated. In fact, we're afraid that this strategy is just a dead letter on paper and a list of good wishes. The Croatian farmer has a significantly higher percentage of direct payments in total income from farmers at EU level, but is nevertheless uncompetitive, meaning that something has been done for 10 years. It should also be noted that during the next few days, it seems to me last week that you have absurd situations on the ground that the municipal and city councils are hastily asking you to tender for agricultural land owned by the state under the existing law. Whether the ministry accepts these tenders or will ask these municipalities to discuss the new law is we well know that, often in these tenders, individuals have been hunted in a blurry way, played in the interest of certain lobbies, and that it is clearly going in this direction again, without the country or agricultural land coming into the hands of those who really need it, who are able to raise the quality of production, and ensure the normal functioning of its family.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92648	And this break will be approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92649	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of HSS and RF for 10 minutes to warn of another faceless manipulation of data, eyeless manipulation of statistics, which is, of course, common with HDZ, you're a good edition of that, and tradition. So you're talking and here you'll probably boast about the drop in imports and the increase in exports without mentioning how there was a decrease in food imports and an increase in exports in the specific year, so demand and the drop in supply chains and this is the drop in demand that we understand in tourism, what agriculture, what increase in agricultural production, is at all unclear in this strategy how you think this growth of agricultural production of 30 billion kuna from the current 19 billion kuna, perhaps inflation, might count on it. Because in this dark socialism, we've produced twice as much food in almost all categories except cereal, we've destroyed the processing industry, we're importing meanings for those for added value, like milk and meat, and we're exporting those with less added value. Why don't you give at least a hint or an obligation to those producers who take it means some kind of support that they have to use domestic raw materials. It's a shame that you're actually using your own policy to benefit from the foreign lobbys of the processing industry, and you've been destroying our industry for years. You destroyed cooperatives, Slovenia did not destroy cooperatives, Croatia did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92650	The apartment is approved. 5th request from colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92651	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the Party Club Center and GLAS for 10 minutes for additional consultations. Well, I'll just draw attention to the Croatian public that just before the beginning of today's session I found a nice wooden box on my desk, I can see that such a box was given to some other parliamentary representatives. I can commend the government, so don't be so surprised by Mr. Chairman, I don't think this could have happened beyond your knowledge, in a very creative way to encourage...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92652	Comrade Oreshkovic, believe it or not, past my knowledge, I don't even know what you have and what you show and why you get others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92653	Well, you've taken away my precious time...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92654	Yeah, yeah, we'll come back, so you called me for no reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92655	...and show that you do not rule the house you chair continues to take my break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92656	I'll give you back your time, you've called me up with nothing challenged again accusing me of knowing something I don't know, so give me a little bit of attention to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92657	So, you're too defensive of something, and you're not a topic at the moment, the theme is a beautiful wooden box that certainly wasn't free and beautiful graphics, which contributes to the vision of the development of Croatian agriculture, so why do we need a strategy of agriculture and opportunities for development. Perhaps in such a visual attractive way, it was intended to encourage parliamentary representatives to pay a little more attention to content and read strategies, so I will say that the God of money and financial resources and expenditure on the expense of taxpayers in this kind of promotional activity because, as far as the quality of the Agriculture Development Strategy is concerned, it means absolutely nothing. The fact is that agricultural production has fallen, and the funds spent on different subsidies have not been compared. And the question is, where is this difference? In whose money has all the EU funds come together, and why are our villages once fertile and fertile today empty? It's a question to discuss, and such a colorful lie will absolutely fool no one. And I'm really looking for an answer to the question of who came up with this and how much of it was paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92658	Let's move on, sixth in a row is a colleague of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92659	I thank the president of HS. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club for a just Croatia for ten minutes to point out once again all the illogicalness of this document that we have on the agenda today. So, the Croatian village waited too long for this document and received something that is not related to the Law on the OPG, nor to the Law on Land, which is crucial for the future of the Croatian village, and ultimately there is not one word on how to restore the devastated livestock fund in the Croatian village, there is not a single word on how to limit the support... which Europe suggests, Croatia does not want to accept, and exactly... that is, the limitation of the amount of support paid by a particular entity would be very helpful. There is not a single word about regulation of the market that does not exist in Croatia, we pretend it is something that is not allowed, and all countries do it, there is no organised purchase of agricultural products, so farmers have to manage themselves and then write on boards selling lambs, selling honey, selling eggs, which is embarrassing and nothing else. There is not a single word why we are slow to hold a competition from the Rural Development Programme and thus make it impossible for our farmers to come to European money. Also asked is the green transition. So this document may be a list of beautiful desires, but for someone who does not know and understand the Croatian village and did not even include it in making such an important document. On the other hand, I only have one more sentence to say, which is that this is exactly how access to the Croatian village led to this drastic depopulation where hundreds of thousands of people were forced to leave the Croatian rural area because there is no place for them in the village of the circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92660	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92661	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club for ten minutes to consult further on a few things. We have not noticed a systematic approach in this strategy itself and clear strategic goals, but what concerns me even more since I come from the coastal part of Croatia, it is not only in this strategy, and it is not the first time, most often when some documents are brought about agriculture, but also water and harmful water influences, it is mostly based on the plainland part of Croatia, and then there is a coastal, karst Croatia. Our country is so diverse and these differences should be respected. Namely, the cross on the islands, Istria and it rural and it along the sea, Dalmatia does not have a fertile land like the Slavonian and Baranja plains, however, it could even feed our country by its quality, but has been proven in these areas not only in Istria but also in islands and Dalmatia there are quality products. We're too small a country, too small a surface, and we have to fight with quality, not quantity. And there is a strategy important and strategic goals here are important, for Istria to become the most famous, the best olive region 25 years ago have already hit the foundations and defined strategic goals. Here are such documents as this one is expected today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92662	Stanka is also approved. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to reiterate once again that the Agriculture Strategy was a roof strategic document in the agriculture sector, that it was adopted after a long waiting of 20 years and that this government had done what the previous governments obviously did not consider necessary, sent such a strategy after it had drawn up in HS to make its contribution. This strategy is a support for the National Strategic Plan under the common agricultural policy through which certain instruments will be developed to improve the productivity and competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, preserve the Croatian village, but also put emphasis on innovation, technology and digitalisation. The plan is that by 2030. increase the annual volume of agricultural production On 30 billion kunas... [[Just a little fellow Petyr, please, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92664	Just a little fellow Petyr. I ask that we be correct and that all MPs and MPs have equal conditions for their speech, so I ask you to calm down a little, though. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92665	I'd be begging to get my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92666	I'll pay you back. I'll give you back a few seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92667	So, I want to point out that the plan is to get to 2030. increase the value of Croatian agricultural production to 30 billion kuna per year, labour productivity by 60%, to support small and medium-sized farmers more strongly, young farmers whose share by 2030. It should increase to 20%. The aim of this strategy is to raise areas under irrigation to 50,000 hectares, surfaces under organic production to 140,000 hectares, areas in glass and plastic production to 500 hectares, to increase the number of pigs in domestic farming by 35% and cattle by 20%, areas under permanent plantations to rise by 5,000 hectares and build 20 distribution centres for fruit and vegetables and to increase the participation of producers in short food supply chains by 30%. So, all those who said this strategy had nothing to do with Croatia obviously never read this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92668	The apartment is approved. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92669	This is how the Rules of Procedure got hurt in the part where my colleague Petir couldn't ask for a break in the name of a club he wasn't a member of, so here's what they say in the heart of HSS. And I really don't know how you're looking for a break on behalf of a club you're not a member of. [[Attack President: My colleague Peovic, you get your first warning now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92670	Now you're getting a second warning. This is really incorrect, you're telling the truth, you haven't even called for an article, you have two warnings, please, people. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92671	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92672	Same breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92673	Yes, Article 238 was injured, Mrs Peovic is false and demeaning the MPs. The one who speaks as president of the Workers' Front on behalf of the HSS. So much for the world's closeness between the HSS and the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92674	My colleague Bačić and you get a warning. I even warned two colleagues, Peovic, so your intervention was not necessary. Let's move on, buddy Bice's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92675	On behalf of the Fokus Club and the independent MPs, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. The reason is very simple before us is an important document that has not been completed. He basically forgot what was most important. 400,000 people came out, left Croatia, a good part of Slavonia County, and we do not have that information in the strategy document. The principle question arises if farmers have gone especially those young people in which we will return them and that should be at the heart and strategy. And also when we talk about this strategy, I'm going to point out that it's actually based on only one piece of information. Increase the value of agricultural production. Very little is said about specific data related to the increase in livestock farming, warfare and elsewhere. I'm going to point out that when we look at what's ahead of us, and that's 10 years of the strategy, that goal will be fulfilled on the basis of only one thing, inflation. If inflation is like now 5% over 10 years we're not going to produce a kilo of more corn, wheat, we don't produce a liter of more milk to get to that end. The goal must be more ambitious, it must be clear and must be an increase in agricultural production at the moment when Croatia has a series of needs to protect itself in situations such as the possibility of a war which is here the other day I hope to be removed in Europe. If we can't eat, and we can't see it from the strategy because we're importing most of the agricultural production, then that should be the goal of what we want for the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92676	The apartment is approved. Now they'll explain the break of fellow Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92677	... I'd say that these cards that we got me, I don't know how much it cost, but I'd say something on page 10 of this card. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, these strategic goals, which are listed and what is being set, can be immediately welcomed, but it is a big problem in Croatia when something on the announced side of what is to be achieved goes into action. We see that in a number of examples. So our practice is extremely bad and harmful. I'm just going to give Agrokora some experience. So, how this company ended and how many areas there are in the concession. So 33,000 hectares of perhaps the most fertile country in Croatia. So, this is what practice unfortunately looks like in Croatia. And it should also be said that we have accepted the EU's entry of certain rules and it should be said clearly and loudly that the very strong players we have to deal with and compete with have an advance advantage over small Croatia. And that's worth it. Many people have already gone so that if you talk about the goal of increasing production, the question is how do we achieve it when we do not have people? We simply lack the population, especially in rural areas. So right away, it gets into the eyes that there is a big gap between what is wanted and what is possible, and that experience shows unfortunately. So we're going to be very critical of this strategy, we're all actually agreed that more attention should be given to agriculture. But this way, I don't think we're going to. To achieve what we want. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92678	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92679	Thank you. Dear President, dear Minister, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for 10 minutes to get to know the content of this strategy again because it's actually unimaginable and actually amazing to whom this strategy is intended. When read in content in terms of the advantages we have in the agricultural sector, you say that the benefits are relatively low agricultural land prices compared to most EU Member States. It is given the advantage that the relatively lower labour costs are compared to other EU Member States. Furthermore, the advantage is that the high share of 30% of households refers to food and drink consumption and that high public expenditure for the agricultural food sector. So, we don't know if it's Google's translation or what this is about, but it's really unthinkable that such demeaning of a Croatian farmer can take precedence. Furthermore, the impression is that the overall strategy is inapplicable to Croatian circumstances because unfortunately because of the poor conduct of agricultural policy not because of Croatian farmers, but because of you, we are far behind for all European developing countries and European countries are not struggling with full problems such as evicted and abandoned villages. These are all clear indications that the Ministry of Agriculture has not since the great planning to move on to realization. A lot of stories, a lot of plans and a huge waste of European money have not helped Croatian agriculture so far. You didn't come to the Ministry yesterday. You've been there a long time. Isn't it time to start doing your job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92680	The apartment is approved. We're going with another request, 12 of my colleagues, Matula, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92681	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the green-left block in order to, for 10 minutes, ask you to meet again, and among other things really encourage this, I don't know, I can't find the right adjective for this ridiculous marketing effect that should have us as advocates of the gleaming minister, I guess, who's actually talking about how you think we haven't read, so of course I've read exactly because I don't otherwise know as deep matter as the representatives who work the country, who have finished the agronomy and who have told me what to read. This more than a farm, this, to laugh, of course, this more than a farm is a document I've been reading and I can tell you that I remember in advance, now I've got this, that the difference and strategic goals are mostly the same, but we know that, let's say, the increase in productivity there has been combined with the resilience of agriculture to climate change, so there are some things like this, that there are priorities that there are some parts at the end of the document as development needs, strategic goals, priorities, needs there at the end. These experts who do this, not only as someone here in an ugly sense used the word Zimbabwe or I don't know, but they do it serially and it is that top experts and they do it like that, but what we do for us is that Europe is going in that direction right now, it has very little,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92682	Thank you very much. The strategy has been approved, the break has been approved, but we still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92683	President of the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure have injured you and the Minister for delivering these excellent materials to some, and some have not. I think most of the MPs here who didn't get this promotional material feel more than offended, so I think you should do it urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92684	A colleague, a colleague of Brumnic, you get a warning, that's one thing. Secondly, I have already told my colleague Oreshkovic that I have absolutely nothing with it as president of the assembly. Says the minister that she referred it to the clubs and that every club got a copy. Maybe there's been a mistake. Look, it's so much, there's so many new clubs that maybe there's been a mistake, and if there's been a mistake, then we'll ask the minister that those interested in delivering more [[All the clubs, all the clubs got, got a copy.]] Look, you don't even know who got it, and who didn't, but please, people, let's just go, let's go, can we just calm down a little bit. [[/Clip-up: Something, something in the defence of the minister, all the clubs got, so here we go.]] You received a warning, I explained that this was not an initiative that went through the president of the assembly but self-initiatively by the minister. I think that's okay, and now we've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then after that, we're gonna take a break by 10 and 15. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92685	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's an article. 238, an insult from HDZ counterparts who laughed at fellow Matulli, who is an actor by profession, but believe you know nothing more about agriculture than he does. So don't laugh, but think about what you're discussing and what you're talking about, and at least colleague Matula is trying to inform and educate how much he is able to learn about agriculture and he admits that he doesn't know And unfortunately you won't admit you don't know. [[Employer: A colleague of Lenart]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92686	Comrade Lenart, I see you're learning a little bit from your colleague Matula, which is also useful to share knowledge with each other, which is also good, this one but you're getting a warning, I have to give you a warning and we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 15. It's 10.04 o'clock. Representatives and deputies, please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:14 A.M.]] As I announced now, the Minister of Agriculture, respected Marija Vukkovic, will present the proposal for a Agriculture Strategy by 20230. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92688	Thank you very much. The Honorable president of HS, parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Agriculture strategy is a roof strategic document in the agriculture sector and the first such document since 2002. Since the adoption of the 2002 Agriculture Strategy the conditions within which the Croatian agricultural sector operates have changed significantly. In the meantime, Croatia has achieved EU membership, which means business in the conditions of the open market in which the EU's common agricultural policy applies. Furthermore, the importance of environmental and climate objectives in the implementation of agricultural policies is growing, and ultimately, no less important phenomenon of covid has brought new challenges and put food security first. The adoption of this strategy is foreseen by the Agriculture Act as well as the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. I am using this opportunity to stress that the debate in HS was not envisaged in previous regulation, but precisely because of the Croatian Government's position that such an important document that had been finished long before should be discussed by HS. We're in 2021. Change the Law on Agriculture so that Croatian MPs have the right to express their opinions no matter how we feel about it. The agriculture strategy defines the objectives and proposes measures to improve the agricultural sector and rural space, while respecting their economic, social and environmental objectives. So, as no sector, the agricultural sector is facing support for all pillars of sustainability, economic, social and green, which often, especially lately, we have been talking about. The strategy recognises the potential for growing agricultural production in diversifying the product direction of more value added and developing complementary activities in rural areas such as tourism, the area of bio-economics of different types of services including intellectual ones. Then, in a better connection with the food industry, investments in adaptation to climate change, digitisation and rerouting agricultural support to users and sectors where this is most needed, for example. perspective small and medium-sized farms, young farmers, sensitive agricultural sectors, permanent crops and the like. In consultations that were very intensive with stakeholders in the sector, we established the following strategic goals of Croatian agricultural policy. Increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural food sector, creating a strong Croatian-related food chain. Under two, strengthening sustainability and resilience of agricultural production to climate change. The third strategic objective is to restore the rural economy and improve living conditions in rural areas, as well as the fourth horizontal one relating to the previous three sectoral promotion of innovation in the agricultural food sector and the creation of a unique Croatian food knowledge that unites public advisory support, private advisory support, applied science and includes the use of new and modern technologies, and thus by connecting it becomes available in each village. The proposal for a Agriculture Strategy for the period up to 2030 contains 22 activities or implementation mechanisms that are grouped into 6 groups. The first group is the orientation of public funds in the agricultural food sector foresees the use of public support funds on the one hand, a more effective way through capital investments that adequately value the growth perspectives, the contribution to productivity and the creation of added value. And two, redistribution of direct payments in order to achieve greater justice. The second group of activities are, namely, sustainable management of natural resources and greater adaptation to climate change and requirements to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. This group is dedicated to improving the contribution to agricultural, environmental and climate issues and covers agri-environmental and climate measures, the development of agri-environmental zone models, support for organic agriculture, irrigation and improvement of agricultural land management. The development of domestic markets is the third group for agricultural food products, and this group deals with ways in which manufacturers can better connect to the market and includes support for the association of manufacturers, the construction of logistics supply centres and the improvement of food safety and quality systems. Then, as the fourth group of activities, they set out to encourage entrepreneurs to establish, grow and develop agricultural areas in rural areas. This group deals with facilitating business conditions and setting up new agricultural economies and businesses through support for risk management, reducing administrative and fiscal burdens and support for business initiation. Fifthly, it determines new opportunities for growth, recognises them, and the group of measures under this activity group refers to the conditions and potentials for growth through integration with other sectors, particularly bioeconomy, tourism, building the necessary rural infrastructure and developing the skills of the population living in rural areas. The last horizontal, pooling of agricultural knowledge of innovation is a group covering measures aimed at improving, applying knowledge, innovation and research in agriculture. All activities planned by the Agriculture Strategy are in line with the new EU guidelines, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, the European Green Plan and the accompanying strategies, in particular the Strategy from field to table and the Biodiversity Strategy. Within this specific framework, the strategy recognises and stresses the national priorities of agricultural policy, increases the value of agricultural production volumes, productivity increases, fostering agricultural economies, and in particular small and medium-sized farmers, as well as through the proposed draft National Strategy Plan for Agriculture, which sets out the measures and objectives initially defined in the strategy. Our strategy is closely linked to the 9 objectives of the common agricultural policy, but it consistently recognises national specificities for which we advocate recognition on all EU bodies. So if we want to reduce inequality, if we want to be equal, then countries can't join the beginning equally because they'll never become equal. The overall objective of the strategy by 2030 is to increase the value of agricultural production in Croatia from around 20 to 30 billion kuna. I'll remind you of 2014, '15. We've had an unprecedented drop from 18 to 15 billion kuna. We have set this goal, taking into account the positive trends achieved in 2020 and 2021, such as the continued growth of gross added value in agriculture back in the last 5 years, the improvement of the trade balance, the growth of farmers' income. Starting from such movements recorded in the terms of the pandemic when drawing up a strategy, we have assessed that the objective is challenging, extremely challenging but effective, and we hope that its achievement will not be threatened by the crisis that we are currently witnessing in the Croatian and European markets and that we could not foresee at the time of the draft strategy. The implementation shall be ensured by means of planning documents of which the Strategic Plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy for the period from '23 is the most significant. by 2027, which is available and publicly published in the draft on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture, which was submitted through the official system by the EU within the deadline of one year before the start of application of 31.12.2021, so I will remind you that we are the current rural development programme, unfortunately, which should have been in force since 1.1.2014, it seems to me in May 2015. a year and a half late. Part of the activities contained in the Agriculture Strategy was developed in the NPOO, specifically the construction of distribution and logistics centres in the fruit and vegetable sector, the digitisation of agriculture and the cohesion and monitoring of agricultural land. The agricultural policy measures provided for in the strategy will, to the greatest extent, be financed from the EU budget for agriculture, but from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia up to 2027. From the EU budget, the Republic of Croatia can count on slightly more than five billion euros or approximately 7.5 billion euros in the period up to 2030. which is the period of implementation of the strategy. Under the National Strategic Plan, the estimated funding from EU agricultural funds is around 3 billion and 400 million kuna, and such a national strategic document will be worth approximately 3 billion and 700 million euros in national contribution. The transitional measures and the transitional period provided for by Croatia during its Presidency for all European countries to avoid any discount in payments, since the multiannual financial framework for Croatian farmers was delayed, funds of 1 billion and 700m euros were reserved, through NPOO 988m and 131m euros respectively, with these funds for the four reform activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, but Croatian farmers will also be able to report under the general measures for the farmers provided for in other NPOO positions. And the additional funds invested through the national contribution over the last few years have been worth nearly an additional 300 million kuna. This should therefore be added to the State budget for support programmes which most often occur as a response to crises or for the purpose of adapting to different particularly sensitive sectors of crisis or improving their market positions. Regardless of all the challenges we face, we believe that Croatia has the potential to improve the results of its agricultural sector and rural economy. This strategy gives guidance and describes the implementation mechanisms that will lead to this transformation process and help the agricultural sector become a driver of economic growth in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, I would like to say that this summary of the strategy modeled by other countries here brought one for each club, seeking to respect Croatian parliamentary representatives that we made this design in the Ministry of Agriculture, made by officials, and that the box was made very modest of Croatian birch, I am terribly sorry that some did not recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92689	Please, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues Please calm down. [[Upadica Vuckovic: We will have import contacts next time.]] The minister explained what she did and I don't know what the problem is that she helped you prepare for the debate. I really don't see in her good intentions anything problematic and let's be a little collegiate and correct towards each other. Let's go now. We've got 40 replicas, so let's go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92690	Your Honors Minister. Do we agree that Croatia's biggest problem of agriculture is unallocated state land? So, we currently have 750,000 hectares of unallocated state land in Croatia, and the fact is that Croatia loses billions of kuna per year of income, and we do not have it because it is not used. Agricultural land law amended 28 times, I now have to ask you in this document, which may be a crucial document for Croatian agriculture by 2030, where exactly on which page do you show the measures to address this problem because I don't see it? If there are no concrete measures then this is a generic text, this is a text that you can apply to whatever country you want in the world, and then you have to say it like that, we are talking about global agriculture and we will no longer fool people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92691	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92692	This is a roof strategic document, it was elaborated through a national strategic document with concrete indicators whose draft is available to you, some of the previous ones were not at the same time, on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture. Unallocated agricultural land in Croatia currently has no 750,000 hectares or approximately. During the implementation of this law, which is valid in force, which has brought a lot of good in terms of state-building over the last two years, 185 tenders have been published, and the latest proposed amendments are fully in line with the strategy, strategic priorities, SWOT analyses and thus amend certain articles, or propose to amend certain articles of the Agricultural Land Act. We don't lose income, the law hasn't changed 28 times, and that information is incorrect. And also existing changes, even with this law. will never be allowed to one unit again [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] 100 hectares of local self-government [[Intruder President: Minister.]] 60 acres to your councilman [[Intruder President: Minister.]] [[Intruder President: Minister, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92693	I ask you to stick to time like all MPs. So now I'm letting go no more. Here's a colleague of Petrov's injure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92694	By risking a second warning, I'm calling for an article. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies because the ministers, in their office on your desk, have a figure of 750,000 hectares of unused dollars given to you by the academic community in the project... and you know it and you deceive the public, and of all the competitions... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Employer: A colleague of Petrov...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92695	Intrusion:...you get, you get a second warning/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92696	You didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92697	So, I'm warning you now, all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure if they go this way in the direction of the replica I'm going to give warnings then through, through, through, through, through the speech itself, so someone might get three warnings through one, one announcement. Let's move on, fellow Murganic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92698	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I have been meaning to direct you to this document, but I cannot resist asking you what you ministers have planned with this box and these picturesque strategy cards. Did you perhaps want to display one of our important documents for Croatia in a nice way, no matter what anyone thinks or perhaps wanted to respect the representatives in some way, and here is an opportunity for attention, as it might be common in any other courteous contacts? However, it is in vain for you, no matter what your intentions are, here in the absence of real arguments, some opposition advocates always find reasons to spread their bile, bitterness, and hatred.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92699	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92700	Thank you very much. We wanted to show respect in the same way to all clubs quite modestly, cost less than the contacts that were before, import contacts that some of us used to share, all available, details on the web, and this box was a rather modest expression of attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92701	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92702	Dear Minister, two very specific questions, so please also very specific answers. The existing Agricultural Land Act contained a direct benefit to livestock in relation to agriculture, which unfortunately turned into a pure abuse that was devastating for our farmers in the north. Is this in a new law whose second reading is expected to be clearly abolished and without any idea or solution that this same policy of convenience, and at the expense of farmers of the north, is being camoufling through some kind of score or some kind of similar model? And another question to which I also ask a clear answer. Is it quite clear that the building land that is for temporary agricultural purposes until they are brought to their building purpose is not subject to the Agricultural Land Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92703	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92704	Therefore, questions are related to the draft amendments and additions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Agriculturals, articles, existing art. 36. The agricultural land law is no longer subject to the right of any, no separate activity to be an absolute priority but to share points and to value both domicileness and residence and sectoral priorities that have been shown to work on the Agriculture Strategy, as well as some other pillars of sustainability such as generational renewal, so all that the strategy says. The members of the commission participated in his work, the Croatian public through even two electronic consultations, the bodies of the state administration, and ultimately the representatives of HS because the part and remarks in the last final draft of the law were respected, so we expect a discussion in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92705	Thank you very much. Comrade Zmaic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92706	I thank President HS. Dear Minister, some colleagues today in the assembly said that the Agriculture Strategy was 2030. a list of good wishes. Personally, I believe that this is not a list of good wishes and conveniences, but that the strategy will give and deliver results and improve agricultural production into agricultural activity. We are witnessing that a few months ago he has collected repromaterials, from fertilisers, safeguards, fuels and seeds, so here is this package of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted and that will help our farmers and the support programme and the reduction of VAT on agricultural costs, we can say that these are already measures that are an integral part of the Agriculture Strategy. Can you comment on that a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92707	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92708	The government reacts with numerous measures to the various disorders that have affected us all in the last 2nd year, especially in the section relating to the support of Croatian farmers and Croatian fishermen. I will remind you of the announcement of the pandemic since March 2020. we have responded through 13 measures and paid more than 675 million kuna of unpaid funds, and most of these measures have had to be notified and approved by the European Commission. We react further, of course, to these disorders and disorders are included in the strategy because we all see that they happen. The last package of government measures is worth 4.8 billion kuna, out of which tax relief is for all Croatian citizens, which will strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture because food is a large part of such tax charge of 2.1 billion kuna, 1.2 billion kuna is a disbursement in terms of facilitating gas prices and 250 agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92709	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92710	When Zmaic says this is not a list of good wishes, but it turns out that the list of good wishes is the 2016 HDZ programme for agriculture, so you promised from 2016 to 2020. 426.000 acres to function. That was in your program. You didn't even put 10,000 on it. You promised 40 irrigation systems, you know how many you solved, 5, but even those 5 don't work at full capacity, and it's been 6 years, you promised to increase it in 4 years, pasture surfaces to 300,000, currently to 13,000. It turns out they were empty stories, that you moved out and Slavonia, that it was a huge security threat, our country is empty, we don't have people like the security threat of a corrupt energy minister, and you were in that wind power plant affair. And your closest associates. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92711	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92712	So most of the data is guilty. It is not 5 irrigation systems put into operation, only through a rural development programme that is not exclusively.../incomprehensible/... because 17 irrigation systems have been financed, and we have also designed a new measure for the equipment for which the competition is scheduled in the first half of 2022. As regards the Law on Agricultural Land, implementation has been delegated to the units of local self-government, they really needed additional incentives and the system is being improved, we announced, they have published 185 tenders since October 2019, until then there was one or none, and the situation has also been arranged through the programme, through available programmes such as so far. As far as I'm concerned, I'll give my testimony, and you can only dream of my relationship with public funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92713	Comrade Saturday, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92714	Thank you, Mr. President. In this proposal, the Agriculture Strategy is largely focused on primary agricultural production, but does not ignore the importance of the processing industry with which agriculture is closely linked. You can tell us exactly what the positioning of the food industry is in this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92715	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92716	The Ministry of Agriculture focuses primarily on Croatia's primary agricultural production but of course its measures are to link it to the processing industry, I noticed otherwise that part of the MPs do not know that at these values of 20 billion kuna is not the value of the food processing industry, it is in a second position in economic accounts. I will remind you that we have also changed the rural development programme, increased the resources for operation 421 to create additional value for the financing of the processing, processing industry, that in the last competition that was recently completed for the first time, we have funded projects for processors and small and large and beginners worth 463 million kuna and we are preparing a new tender worth 330 million kuna. We have been applying everything that is unquestionable from this strategy that we have a consensus on for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92717	Let's move on, colleague Vuciilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92718	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers are generally known that Croatia does not produce enough except war cultures for the needs of the population. So my question is very simple. Will Croatia produce enough meat, milk, fruit and vegetables by implementing this 2030 strategy for the needs of the population of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92719	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92720	As I said, the strategy is already being implemented and no one has done it before. Focused investment in reproductive centres in pigmeat, in the peradarity sector, in 2.5. we publish the dairy sector, competition for dairy cattle, for farms, for robotics, for equipment also competition for silos and warehouses. As far as the livestock sector is concerned, it really does have a very challenging time. We have shown in these two years that despite the difficulties, and most thanks to the efforts of our agricultural producers we manage to maintain it. His position in economic accounts isn't that we don't have a fall that was caused only by inflation, we had in 2021 according to the second estimate of the State Statistics Office even the growth of 2%. Very modest, but in very difficult conditions as rarely which country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92721	Comrade Chicken, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92722	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure of Article 238, we are already used to meaning both ministers and prime ministers and state secretaries belittled MPs so they don't answer their questions, but my question was very direct, you could answer me with yes or no, but I will interpret this lab as no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92723	My colleague Vucilović has received a warning, the minister replied that she thinks it is right, and what you want to say is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure and she can answer in the way she thinks it's right. Here's your colleague, Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92724	Thank you very much, President. Dear Ministers Agriculture Strategy until 2030 therefore mentions greater use of IT technologies and smart digital platforms in agricultural production. This should, of course, have a positive impact on productivity gains, but also on farm profitability, risk reduction. But my question to you is. How will these technologies be applied in agricultural production, with still insufficient information literacy in our farmers, and which is therefore smart, digital solutions, the strategy envisaged to be implemented in the day-to-day work of agricultural economies, in order to increase productivity, the profitability of Croatian agriculture itself? Positive examples of these uses of technology in Croatia have, however, a digital transformation of agriculture Still, he's looking for additional incentives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92725	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92726	The digital transformation of agriculture as well as the digital transformation of the fisheries sector which has passed several years before has already occurred primarily by small farmers whose number has increased in recent years. The Rural Development Programme responded to this challenge because we have 2,000 young farmers more. In the future, a part of the digitisation will take place through reform activities, through the National Resistance and Recovery Programme from its 3 pillars. The first pillar of administrative reform, the acceleration of procedures and digitisation, the second most significant reform of the agricultural sector, and the third digitisation of information and monitoring through traceability to consumers, and the future National Strategic Plan as set out here in the strategy will encourage increased public and private investment in research and development and improvement of transmission and technology. That is why the funds are provided. Here's what's been published in the National Strategic Plan available to you on the web. 34 and a half million euros. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92727	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92728	Dear Minister, I'll thank you first, we've got a box, it's for a subsequent apology, but thank you. Now the question. I've read a little strategy, I've been going over these materials from the box and I've tried to find an answer to a very simple question, which is in line with this government's policy, according to this strategy, how our farmers will pass. We are today witnessing that the trade chains are not owned by Croatia, that the producers companies are not owned by Croatia, and that the prices are here I will say one product that is the yogurt of Dukat has gone to 17 kuna. Of these 17 kunas, I'm interested in how much he got a foreign trade chain, how much did he get from a foreign producer, and how much did he get from that farmer who made the milk from which it was made put on the market? Here's a very simple one. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] and in line with the current policy [[President: Here's the answer.]] and according to this strategy. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Brumnic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92729	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92730	In the food supply chain, manufacturers are in the weakest position and therefore we encourage their association, so we provide them with additional funds, so we planned twice as much wage redistribution as it was in the 2014-20 programme. That is why we have adopted and reformed the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. I don't think the manufacturers are in foreign hands. Of course, we have defined ourselves as a country that is part of the single labour market, capital, trade, we respect those rules. We strengthen our producers so that we want to raise their competitiveness, their strength and bring them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92731	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92732	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, today we are discussing this important strategic document, vision, agriculture of rural space in the Republic of Croatia. To us coming from Slavonia, this is very important, because agriculture is the main branch of Slavonia. This government has raised agriculture high in the top of its priorities. The pandemic naturally raised awareness of the importance of food production, or food production. Agriculture must be our developmental national interest and we must put emphasis on quality and not on quantity. My question is, however, how many new technologies and innovations can this strategy, i.e. the new Agricultural Land Act, popularize that branch and create new opportunities and leave new, young farmers to deal with agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92733	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92734	Generational recovery and parallel digitisation and the takeover of new technologies with which we cannot be fully satisfied during the previous period are a condition without which Croatian rural space cannot be strengthened and the strategic objective of agricultural production growth can be achieved by 2030. The means of digitisation are envisaged, the unification of public, private and scientific support is also envisaged through different measures. I would like to remind you that we have also recently changed the rural development programme and for the first time made it possible to use the funds from the programme to private consultants because the public sector cannot fully support such support and such united knowledge with the transfer of new technologies will be available in each village and financed by European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92735	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92736	Thank you, Mr. President. The EU's important goal of the field-to-table strategy is to provide for 25% of the country's agricultural land to be under ecological farming by 2030, which is the goal of our Strategy. You can tell me when you intend to adopt a national plan since here in this strategy on organic production is spoken but only in the implementation mechanism B3 very little and to anyone who deals with organic production seems to still look like an exotic way of producing food in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92737	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92738	The Ministry of Agriculture has therefore joined the development of a National Action Plan for Organic Agriculture, which will be in consultation with the public by 15 March. The measures related to the contribution to the EU Green Agenda with which we agree are also well elaborated through the National Strategic Plan, whose draft was submitted to the European Commission and announced that you as well as the entire Croatian public can read it. The plan provides for eco schemes that we consider to be well affected by the interests of Croatian agriculture and Croatian consumers, six of them. The plan also provides for resources for organic agriculture, animal welfare, agro-environmental measures, forest measures, conversion, etc. Additional funds for climate change management. As far as the percentage is concerned, and I'll answer it specifically, he's more modest. as foreseen by the EU-level strategy. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92739	Thank you very much. That's what you're going to add in the second answer. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92740	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ms. Ministers, this proposed strategy has defined the restrictive objectives of increasing production, strengthening quality and how to compete on the Croatian market, but also in how to be sufficient in all of this. Bioeconomy and bioenergy, as well as biofuels that are certainly the future of the Republic of Croatia, may also not be mentioned enough in this strategy, so tell me which documents and how we will develop this, given that we have passed the Law on plants of short periods used in production and biofuels, as well as cellulose that is very necessary in making paper and other things. I think Miscantus is one of the preoccupations of these plants that will be for biodiesel and bioethanol, and therefore on which land such plants can grow and how will they be banned from producing on high-quality land?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92741	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92742	The bio-economy will be considered by a special strategic document besides this roof, meaning the Ministry of Agriculture has been committed to construction. We are primarily building this strategy on the strategic objectives that have proved necessary to us, and that is, in addition to quality, we must first have both the quantity and continuity so that our producers need to have food security, and then of course we have to provide resources for organic agriculture, we must consider the cultures of short periods, and define potential land that will not be the most valuable, will not be highly valuable agricultural land for development and these cultures and integration in the cycle of the circular economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92743	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92744	Dear Minister, here I have a diary in front of me with the slogan "Bought Croatian", a good marketing campaign launched by the HGK aimed at increasing the production or consumption of Croatian products, especially food products. I wonder if you know what is the share of agricultural Croatian products on the shelves of trade chains and how to protect our farmers from negative commercial practices because often because of these negative contracts, trades, our farmers are bankrupt. Namely, the currency of payments was 3 to 6 months, and they were often reduced by the quality of the goods delivered and thus the final price of the goods themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92745	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92746	I would like to remind you that such practices are prohibited by the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices which has greatly improved, improved the exact time needed, the time used today on average for paying farmers' accounts is largely no longer such payments, and if there are, it is a violation and it is necessary to report it. As for the marketing campaign "Bought Croatian" this Ministry of Agriculture has notified a special label that guarantees the traceability of "From Field to Table". It was approved by the European Commission in September 2020. After which we started working with the manufacturers. The first to receive the specification were producers in the apple sector, the second one of the day in the egg sector, and currently before receiving the specification are also Croatian vegetable producers, and is in the negotiations of the pigmeat sector. I would also say that these are the only marks with meat, milk, food from Croatian farms that guarantee the full traceability of "From Field to Table" in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92747	Thank you. Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92748	Your Honor, your Honor, Minister. I think it is very important that this strategy implies an even stronger contact with the tourism sector. Namely, the county from which I come Split-Dalmatia 2019 had 3.7 million nights last year 2.3 million nights and it is certainly one huge potential to place our domestic products and we know about the statements of our farmers that already in last 2020. when there was a small number of nights they felt losses in their business although the tourist season despite the covid was very good quality. I am interested in the paradigm and achievement of Croatia, the blue green Croatia in which segment and in what way and in what time can it be even stronger and more pronounced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92749	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92750	So we already have very good examples of the hotel and catering industry on the Adriatic which builds its image because, which builds its image on the basis of Croatian original agricultural products, building also special eating habits for those who come to them, with tourists. However, I would also like to say that we would ensure an uninterrupted flow, especially from the interior which is the backbone of food security towards the Adriatic, which can represent a great demand, is to increase the quantity, is to bring together producers to reduce costs and ensure continuity. We do this by encouraging association, we will support it by building logistics distribution centres through the IPO, and we are doing so by strengthening the manufacturer through measures that encourage investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92751	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let the First Minister thank you, then HDZ, and then to all the Commissioner Plenkovic for letting MPs discuss one strategic document, you have really led the patronization of the assembly to a new level, but good. I don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about a strategy that's only six years old. late, so I thought I'd ask you because then you were the secretary of state, as you comment on what Minister Tolusic told me at the time in 2016 on one committee, the strategy is finished, literally drying up the paper, except it isn't, you'll get it as soon as possible. 6 g. There's finally a strategy here. You're saying the last one was in 2022, but how much was it cut, so stick to that strategy? Now if I had time, I could show you exactly what parts were prescribed, and you said things had changed radically, which I agree with you, so this is not a strategy, this is a nail in a coffin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92754	Well, I can't comment on what anyone said on the board that I didn't think I was on. I can say that we started working on this strategy with analysis in October 2018, that this was done in cooperation with foreign and Croatian experts, and the maker was the Ministry of Agriculture, that the scientific community was involved, that a number of workshops were carried out across all Croatian larger cities and in many rural areas, that it was also in e-consultation and that, in the meantime, a detailed national strategic plan was drawn up, which was in addition to two mandatory rounds of consultation passed both third and all analytical documents, 20 of them are available on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92755	Here you go, pal Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92756	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Minister. You're probably just as impressed with the amount of scientists present here in HS who know all about Croatian agriculture and who have the right to speak that way. It doesn't matter. I would say that three things are crucial for this strategy, and they are crucial for Croatian agriculture, from raw farming to the producer, I think it is a composite or a headstone of this whole strategy, to increase the additional value of agricultural production, without it there is no better Croatia, without it there is no better agriculture. The second challenge is the climate change that is evident and happening, in particular it will likely hit Slavonia in some time until 2050. And the third one that matters to me, without association, has no better production. Only 0.24% of farmers in Croatia united while the European average is much, much greater than this. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92757	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92758	The number of producer organisations in the last four years has increased significantly, more than 20 of them today, and there were four of them when we got the chance to work on it. But it's not an important number, it's important, it's okay, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's the value that's being traded through these producer organisations, it's going to tell us about real success. I agree with you that there is a need for additional engagement, which is why we recognized it through the NPOO, so we started working on the changes in the acts. And I would say that last year for the first time he was functional, so we had the opportunity to use it because the first organizations earned it is using funds through the Operational Programme for the implementation of production organisations strategies in the fruit and vegetable sector, we have the first two that meet the conditions, eu conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92759	My colleagues, Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92760	Your Honor, Minister. The funding section shows an annual allocation from the EU budget while the part to be financed from the national budget is missing. Shouldn't the public know how much funding is planned from the state budget for the agriculture sector? Shouldn't the total amount of funds needed to implement the strategy be planned? The media says that agriculture is intended for 7.5 billion euros, and according to this strategy, it is 4.9 billion euros. The fact is that additional financial resources are planned through NPOO implementation, but most of these funds are not intended for direct investments by farmers and entrepreneurs in the agriculture sector. The ministry should clearly show how much funding is intended for this purpose, and how much for the public sector or the state sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92761	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92762	... projection based on what we know will be by 2027. I'll remind you, the transition period of '21, '22. A billion and 700 million euros, NPOO 131 million euros for four reform activities, 3.4 eu funds for the strategic plan, is the most significant document since '23-'27. eu funds, the national funding of 300m euros, will therefore be worth 3.7m euros. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Additional measures with a series of experiences we have in recent years will be at least at the level of annual investments in other additional support as a response to the disturbance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92763	My fellow Posavec, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92764	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Minister Vukkovic. As Minister of Agriculture through this strategy that comes from your portfolio, you should have offered answers to Croatian farmers, you should have offered them an answer as to how they from their work, from their exhausting day-to-day, whole-year work of themselves and their families can live in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, you have not given them these answers, this strategy does not offer these answers, this strategy is a document written on 140 pages and has two kilograms, it is a document that is consistent with all those documents prescribed by the EU's common agricultural policy, but it is not a document that offers our farmers an answer. So this document is completely unreal and it's invaluable because you proved it by your work and your behaviour of the ministerial function where you promised the 40 irrigation systems already mentioned here, and you only realized 17, you never said how much The hectare is covered. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92765	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92766	I don't know when I was talking about irrigation, and for these 17 that are funded through Rural Development programs, it's supposed to have irrigation at 7,000 hectares, it's a public infrastructure for somewhere around 6,950 hectares of land. And we Croats have also fought to keep the irrigation systems still funded in the next programming period with 100% of what the EU notes have been saying about it. And now I've forgotten what part two of the question was, I'm sorry maybe there'll be an opportunity. Here, don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92767	Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92768	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister. All activities planned by the Agriculture Strategy are in line with European strategic documents, but also with national priorities aimed at improving the competitiveness and productivity of Croatian agriculture, preserving Croatian villages, as well as an adequate response to climate change as well as redirecting support to small and medium-sized farmers and young farmers. The objective of this strategy is until 2030. increase agricultural production annually from today's 20 billion to 30 billion kuna. This goal has been assessed by many as highly ambitious, and since we follow the energy shocks that occur, not only in Croatia but also in the European market, the question of whether this goal is feasible and what measures will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help farmers overcome this energy current and gas shock.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92769	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92770	The goal is 30 million kuna forecasts growth between 4 and 4.5% on average annually. I will take advantage of the opportunity to connect both issues, so I remembered that the Ministry of Agriculture has done a methodologically correctly, a number of analyses have preceded, all the documents are available, and in the meantime we have developed a detailed national strategic plan that speaks in figures about each group and the implementation mechanism that all MPs can read. We responded to all the disturbances, I mentioned 13 extraordinary measures, so we are again in this package, which is intended for all Croatian citizens, especially households, especially those who are threatened by energy poverty, but also to all entrepreneurs again, telling how important it is and how challenging the strategic agricultural activity has been designed by additional special funds, so this aid package is worth 250 million kuna for.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92771	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92772	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, the Croatian coast is known for many things, and among other things it is known for its top wine walk. In the area that has been produced in Primorje Croatia for centuries, which is still unprotected. There are currently problems with the protection of the promenade, due to the Italian average which differs dramatically from the Croatian prosecution, and we expect it to mean that. My question to you is at this point where the phase of protection, or the request of the Republic of Croatia, is for the protection of the promenade, and how does this strategy actually plan to protect Croatian indigenous products and varieties?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92774	... The traditional term prosek was submitted in 2013 and refers to 4 areas in Dalmatia. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] After 7 years, the European Commission has assessed that the Croatian request contains the necessary elements to propose a step further. Such a step on the Italian side, due to the importance of the average, resulted in a number of negative reactions. We believe that Croatia has the right to insist on protecting the traditional term prosek. We have evidence that dessert wine with its special technology was mentioned back in the 16th century by Peter Hektorovic, that it was continued in the 18th century by an Italian travel writer in the part of the Way by Dalmatia Albert Fortis, that it was especially and detailed in the Varazdin list during the 19th and early 20th century and that this right We can document it, and we'll keep doing it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92775	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92776	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Fisheries in the Republic of 2020 is a project you started with the World Bank in the 10th month 2018. The deadline for drawing up the document, which was this document in October 2020, so we are already a year late at the beginning. In addition, the introduction on page 6 writes this strategic planning act is the basis for the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all further strategic documents and plans for agricultural and rural development after 2020. So, what I think, or we're building a roof house based on, if this act is the basis for all plans from 2020 on or we have a time machine, then now that we bring this act, if we bring it back to 2020, then we're going to bring these acts to which this act is the basis and then we're going to develop or work on agriculture. In addition, the methodology may be correct, but you are violating the Strategic Planning and Development Management System Act RH where it is prescribed that long-term acts such as this must be brought to work... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92777	Comrade Ahmetovic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92778	The strategy was made within the time limit with all the necessary consultations. We just wanted to make it possible for the MPs, so we changed the regulation that they were giving their opinion. So, the strategy was made within the deadline, the strategy was preceded by amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, amendments to the Investment Programme, preceded by the creation of the National Strategic Plan, we brought it to the Assembly and this parallel to putting it on the website of the National Strategic Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92779	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92780	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister, any good, you can drink some water, get some rest while I ask you a question. In January 19th, I sent you a representative question about our beekeepers, I saw that in 2022 support for those sensitive sectors in agriculture, so I must admit 42 million kunas for tobacco, tobacco products, I know that the story of industry, the economy, but we also know that 15,000 people die annually from the consequences of tobacco, tobacco products to HZZ in Croatia, every year we lose the city the size of Metkovic, the size of Makarska from smoking, it's terrible. Now, I'm wondering if it's just some oversight and how you can help our beekeepers because for them zero kunas are foreseen according to this proposal, at least that's what it said, and specifically for tobacco and tobacco products, 42 million, is it? I'm asking you to make it right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92781	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92782	... In total, 121 million kuna, tobacco is one of them and are negotiated when Croatia enters the EU. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] They're all always the same, cows in milk production, fertilizers.../incomprehensible/... and the amount, the total amount is 121 million kuna, you've noticed that 42 million kunas apply to tobacco. So that's how it's gonna stay. It is important to support agricultural economies in the area where tobacco is produced, it is Virovitica-Podravska and Požeško-Slavonska County to specialise, I think even 85% it is a special type of soil that is not suitable for different cultures. As for beekeepers, this government increased the national envelope from 14 million kuna to 17 million kuna last year, set up the first Deminis programme in support of 3 million kuna bees, the same in 2021. financed for the first time significant losses of what was happening extraordinary events in Međimurje County and we will continue. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92783	My colleague, Pocrnic Radošević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92784	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. I'm going to look back at something I think we should pay attention to in the future. Here, for example. In my Lika-Senj County, the current incentive system in agriculture has been placed in the role of a significant agricultural area both state and private, there has been an increase in the number of cattle registered over 5,000 family economies in a significant number of young carriers, increasing awareness of the importance of connecting with the tourism sector, so we have both capacity and potential. However, I am of the opinion that, in future, I must put emphasis on raising the level of knowledge and skills in agriculture in order to enable quality and additional products and services to develop new professions and new knowledge in which they will generate additional value to the economy. Here I think of secondary education in programmes from the agriculture sector, lifelong education and the necessity of other sectors and local self-government Include in these things that it does [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Ministry of Agriculture. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92785	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92786	The farmers of Lika-Senj County on average have some 57% more support per user than is the Croatian average, they are significantly supported and this is an area that can significantly strengthen Croatia's position with its capacities, especially in terms of contributing to green ambition. However, I must also say that only we when we talk about organic farming since 1.1.2022. whether the guidance and control bodies that, in addition to the data on growing areas, we found a way, it was not possible firstly in accordance with the regulations that they must also enter data on the quantity because such measures should raise surface growth, but also through public means to enable healthy produced Croatian organic food and this was the goal. It's certainly a big perspective. I'm glad we recently signed a construction contract with Lika-Senj County Center for cattle production. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92787	Choose your colleague Pavić Željko.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92788	Your Honors Minister. In your replica you said that agricultural producers are not in foreign hands, I will only mention the Belje plus owned by which we know and which last year received 87 million and 890 thousand kuna support in agriculture, here's just a reminder. Furthermore, would you please answer what this strategy says that it couldn't have been written two, three, five or seven years ago? Digital platforms are certainly not since they have been in use for tens of years. You spoke in the introduction of a strategy on the circular economy, you talked about the circular economy, and what's important is you didn't work it out later on. Why is this not worked out, why is this not talked about, why is there no incentive in this direction for our farmers and our agricultural economies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92789	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92790	So, I said you really shouldn't say that the producers, Croatian agricultural producers, are in foreign hands, and do you know how many applications for support are submitted and how many registered producers are in the register? 110,000 requests for support, 173 can't exactly be said that there are no producers, that there are no companies or economies in domestic hands. However, we have joined the EU's single market. Belje got as much support as it got, most likely from direct payments. I would like to remind you that when programming for the period '14-20, then the government programmed a redistribution to the first hectares for small economies 10%, and that we have now doubled that into a national strategic plan 20%, so that we will rather reduce these disproportionateities. Circular economy, bioeconomy The green agenda will be read national strategically... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92791	Thank you very much. Here you go, Colga Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92792	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honors Minister. So Croatia is the last country in the EU after a unit of work has been achieved. The time of the Serbian destruction then, too, and the consequences of that cowardly war are far behind us. '91. In the agricultural industry, it worked about 22%, today about 6% seems to me, and the most subsidized activity is. Croatia's 2.55 billion euros in the agricultural industry accounts for about 0.62 total value of the agricultural industry in the EU, and this data places us side by side with one Slovakia, which is a mountainous country, facing the auto-industry. How do you interpret this data and how do you think we're going to turn this direction to our advantage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92793	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92794	Well, I don't think your data is exactly your last, so we can check them out, but this last place is no longer true. However, there will be no jumps for ten places, this will be a painful way of progress, which we are already making. So, real income in agriculture in a very difficult year deflationed has grown last year according to the second estimate of DZS 3.1%, producer incomes are constantly growing, of course we agree that it is necessary and faster and more and that our agricultural producers, as well as across the EU, are facing challenges and disturbances that are faced in view of demographic trends that are not just like this in Croatia that this poses a huge challenge all together. Agricultural production does not cover the food industry. The value is therefore in value in economic accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92795	Thank you very much. Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92796	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, this strategy recognises one among other things and the development need to improve the link between the producer and the consumer chain. Our task is to motivate and help as many Croatian products as possible on Croatian tables. The impact of tourism on the placement and development of agricultural food production, there is a lot of talk and writing about it, and there we need to make an additional step to make it more and more significant. However, what I am pleased about in this strategy has not yet been mentioned that among other things you have foreseen new opportunities for growth and recognized the tourism potential in food production. Namely, one of the implementing mechanisms is the promotion of agricultural gastronomic tourism. Together with the Ministry of Tourism you designed branding that includes local products, culinary experiences and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92797	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92798	The Ministry of Agriculture will continue to implement measures related to diversification for rural development, especially through Operation 6. It is the operation that connects with this group of activities, and they will also receive additional momentum through planned implementation through local action groups, which so far has not been the case, additionally through financial instruments which are Croatian producers in the last 2nd century. We used great, planned half a billion kuna we've already increased to 782 million kuna. There is a significant, significant demand for diversification and for the development of rural tourism related to agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92799	Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92800	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Minister, what I have not been able to understand is the pushing of livestock that you have recognized as a deficit branch in agriculture, especially dairy, and to this present state in livestock farming has led us precisely to your policies, failed agriculture policies, through various operational programmes, in the IPARD and SAPARD measures through which large amounts of money are pumped, in good part and from our state budget, and now that you want to increase or raise that production representation by pushing that livestock industry wherever you can, and so on through some links and production, for example. in organic agricultural production, and I'm asking you to explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92801	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92802	So I wouldn't exactly say that our policies are something that's been going on right now for the last 10 years. they contributed because we had access to structural and agricultural funds in full only 2013, for example in production-related payments, which would have been perfectly normal not intended for breeding, no heifers were planned, no firstborn were planned, no support, which is a difficult one failure. In these measures with special restrictions, it was possible to give 100 hectares of forest land without a single throat, which is the complete opposite of the intention to preserve space through a measure of 13 difficult conditions of management, with significant resources planned for organic agriculture, and without the integration of artificial throats, and that we will try to connect it because it makes a significant contribution to livestock farming, and this will contribute to a healthy ecological product.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92803	Comrade Vukas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92804	Dear Minister, you yourself said that this strategy is a roof document as we see agriculture by 2030. And what he would ask you is why I think we're at least 3 years late with the strategy. So if we have the main strategic target document as we see this fragile and unfortunately poor agriculture, then we can't be late for 3 years. with the objectives of this strategy being a little out of date. Many countries in the EU are already implementing these goals, and we are late from 3rd. Today or in other readings, we should make a strategy that should be raised to our feet by 2030. I will continue to say in the debate on behalf of the club and individually, but the answer to why we are late if agriculture is so important to us and we are now discussing some mere theories about the EU CAP, and our farmers in 3 months are asking how they will manage the funds to carry out the agricultural sowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92805	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92806	Well, I wouldn't exactly say that ours, that our agriculture is poor, is worn by very valuable and smart and creative many people capable and they succeed in very difficult circumstances that are not reserved for Croatia alone. This document is a roof, it was made in time, very little change, and why we should not consult always and always upgrade, it is in HS because the previous regulation was not intended to discuss the strategy in HS. We've already said this five times today, and the document was made in time, so it wouldn't have been made a National Strategic Plan in time if this document hadn't been made in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92807	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ahmetovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92808	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On several occasions today, the Rules of Procedure have been injured. 238, the minister constantly demeans this house, so HS passed a new Agriculture Act, not you, HS and you must act according to the laws passed by HS, and in particular this law says that this strategy is being adopted in HS Don't impose on us that you gave us something of your own free will. [[Employed by: colleagues Ahmetović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92809	My colleague Ahmetovic, you get, you get a warning. This was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, fellow Vukovac, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92810	Thank you. Dear Minister, you promise this strategy to Croatian citizens an increase in production even though you are aware that it is a prerequisite for the production of land. In the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, which was recently in the first reading in this home, you gave the most points to the previous owner provided that the share of direct payments to agriculture, therefore the incentives did not exceed 30% of the total income from agriculture. In a proposal that comes to us these days again on the agenda of this condition no longer exists. You are aware that every year Croatia pays for the increasing amount of incentives and production decreases. Why do you support such a model and why is the requirement for support to follow production and how do we plan to increase production if the state land is used by those who collect incentives, while the moss produces nothing for our Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92811	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92812	Following remarks in the Croatian Parliament, we did not remove this condition, but instead, we have separated the terms of respect for contractual relations, respect for economic programmes from the economic conditions relating to the share of direct payments in agricultural income, so that the 25 maximum points are now 20 points for the property so far and for the owner who has fulfilled all of his contractual obligations and fulfilled the economic programme, and all farmers, whether they have had the opportunity or not to use agricultural land to which the share of direct payments does not exceed 30% get 5 points. It's more methodologically correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92813	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92814	Thank you. We've been listening to your argument for two hours now and one without understanding the repeat of some numbers. Among other things, you also said that you are also boasting that increased exports are reduced imports without warning how this happened and that external trade indicators should be seen in relation to reduced demand and difficult flow, international flow of goods. The external trade deficit is therefore almost €1 billion, it is quite unclear how you mean to increase the value of agriculture to 30 billion by 2030 from the current 19 billion and that we understand the meaning of the return of production to 1991 the year it's in all categories of food [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Every year, less and less production than cereals. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92815	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92816	First of all, I didn't say that imports are getting lower today, and I just said that we have a positive shift in the external trade balance. I'm absolutely sure of what I'm saying. Secondly, I'm sorry that you think I don't understand the statistics that you are thus interpreting my responsibility to numbers and data, but I'm also going to say that you don't understand and that you're talking about something that might have been worth it in 2020 when imports were really decreasing due to supply chains disturbances, but in 2021, supply chains recovered, and the first 11 months of 2021 said the following significantly increased imports and exports of agricultural and food products, but exports grew faster. So, that's not going to decrease the deficit by a magic wand at once, the deficit will be reduced by investments in competitiveness and productivity. and at a faster rate of growth.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92817	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92818	Thank you. Dear Ministers, as far as I am aware, you have received as many as 130 pages of comments from the European Commission on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme from 2014 to '20. My question is therefore how much do you expect the Republic of Croatia to pay from its budget as a correction to the implementation of this rural development programme that has not been drawn up in accordance with the plan on the basis of these remarks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92819	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92820	The first rural development programme takes place fully in accordance with the plan, i.e. it exceeds the plan. I will remind you last year before we received additional funds at the payoffs that were 75% then compared to the agreed funds we were in 5 places in the EU for payments from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. I don't know what 130 pages you're talking about. I know we have a number of audits. That we have sometimes proposed adjustments, as well as other EU countries, I have not noticed that we are failing something, but of course we can check it out, and if you are talking about the National Strategic Plan, no official comments have yet come to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92821	Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, if we want a competitor to grow a future she needs to be made attractive to a young man, digitized, automated, robotized. In addition, young people need to be highly motivated for schooling in agricultural professions without doing so, they will go away and choose professions that are easier, more attractive than agriculture. So I'm wondering what measures you're going to take to sort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92824	I would like to remind you that this Croatian government and the Ministry of Agriculture have launched a programme of scholarships under the development agreement for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture is not the main body of the state administration that takes care of education but will certainly seek to contribute to such legitimate objectives by means of its measures, activities, advisory support for the provision of means of practice, for cooperation with secondary and higher schools in the field of agriculture, nutrition, veterinary, forestry and woodworking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92825	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92826	Thank you. Dear Minister, a very simple question. How much did it cost to make this strategy since it's been working on it for years? What has happened since September 2020 when it was first presented to the Committee so far? What kind of vacuum was this, what was going on in this period? The impression is that, from this strategy, the Croatian farmer is responsible for the situation in which the farm is located. You write very clearly about the Croatian farmer that it is characterized by low productivity, poor business records, poor planning, business management, insufficient insurance, poor connection with the value chain, unrecognized by credit institutions and the like. Who do you think is a Croatian farmer and what is he? Cause or effect of such a situation in agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92827	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92828	The strategy was developed by the Ministry of Agriculture. The strategy was preceded by a number of analyses, diagnostics, model design, consultation, workshops, specific analytical bases with different stakeholders of the scientific community in Croatia and abroad, cooperation with sectors of different measures, implementation of 4 pilot projects, training of all analysts of the Ministry of Agriculture and this agreement with the World Bank was worth EUR 2.5 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92829	Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92830	Madam Minister, we have this strategy ahead of us but it does not respect some of the important changes that have taken place in Croatia. First of all, I will point out that there are 400,000 fewer inhabitants in Croatia, that in this strategy it has not been implemented in any way, and of those 400,000 who are missing the largest part is related to the counties that have large agricultural production, especially Slavonia. 5 Slavonian counties are among the first to lose. However, there is also a decrease in the number of OPGs by a quarter over the last 10 years. What I would point out is that staying people, the return of people, especially young people, depends on the possibility of having jobs, employment, because agriculture is that too. It's not just a matter of food production, it's a question of the survival of these counties and many others. Why isn't it in the strategy and what do you intend to do by it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92831	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92832	Well, I wouldn't say that if it wasn't in the strategy, it was a matter of generational renewal and the takeover of economies by young farmers, part of this strategy and the national strategic document. That is why we have also increased the funds for the takeover of economies provided for in the national strategic document published at EUR 102 million- It is therefore further foreseen by direct payments, one part of direct payments, to finance, to have a special allocation for young farmers. That is why we have allowed all investment tenders to increase investment support from 50 to 70% for young farmers. And that is why we are increasing support, which is why we are increasing the significant support that has so far been EUR 50,000 for taking over and investing in the economy by young farmers to at least 75.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92833	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92834	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, do you know that there is a direct correlation between the increase in the number of employees in the ministry you run with the reduction of agricultural production in Croatia and the number of employees in the same ministry in 2003 worked in the Ministry of Agriculture 700, 700 employees, 2008. 1,400, today there are 3,200 plus ergels in Đakov and ergels in Lipik who are under your authority and where there are more employees than horses plus you pay external services to lawyers even though only in the Payment Agency you have 50 employees who do nothing. Is your strategy, or does it say anything that you think you do about these trends that I have listed that are very well known to everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92835	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92836	So I don't know if there's a direct link between the movement of the number of employees is vice-proportional and agricultural production. We who don't understand the numbers we need, we calculate it by the statistical methods we learned in college, so we can check it out. However, it is incorrect that the number of employees in the Ministry of Agriculture 3,200 is a completely incorrect data, he, quite incorrectly. So, as regards the Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, it today has about the same number of people as it did 4 years ago, it handles support, controls, removes shortcomings, and all of this is worth more than 7 billion kuna, and almost the same number, maybe 20, 30 less, has handled 4 billion kuna before, 2015 or 2016. 3,200 I don't know About what, the Ministry of Agriculture numbers [[Intruder: Thank you.]] About 900 people. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92837	1,900?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92838	About 900.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92839	900 good. Here's my colleague, Beljak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92840	Article 238, so this is typical number manipulation. Because you're talking about employees of the ministry, but you know very well that there are 5-6 agencies, that there are ergels that I've been talking about, and that all this is coming from the agriculture ministry budget together. So you manipulate and lie to ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92841	You're getting a warning from your colleague, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92842	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92843	This wasn't any breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was some attempt at replication. A colleague of Mandaric's and you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92844	Here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to call on Article 238, my colleague Beljak is actually talking, he's making rough lies, I'm about to know the information about the ergels of Đakov and Lipik, I think there are 30 employees, and there's a horse about 10 times more than that. So I don't know if you've had a chance to visit, feel free to visit both ergels, nice spaces, so you'll see how many throats there are, and how many employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92845	A colleague of Mandarić, a colleague of Mandaric's, gets a warning, this was a replication, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. All right, let's calm down. Let's move on, colleague Oreshkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92846	The Honorable Minister would first of all like to clarify whether I heard or understood something. When you were asked how much the World Bank's consulting services cost you mentioned a figure of EUR 2 million. How familiar I am with the results of these consultations have been criticised since 2019, the fact that the basic problems of Croatian agriculture have not been detected. And when the ruling says the opposition only criticises or has no real arguments, then tell you one thing. Some things are seen with naked eyes, and all it takes is honesty to describe things and call them real names. And the fact is that our rural areas disappear, that they're devastated, is that we have a decline in agricultural production is that we have a few times reduced stock fund compared to the pre-war period, the fact is that we don't have all the agricultural areas and areas placed in our function, that we're not charging concessions and fees enough and that there's no control in the APN payment system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92847	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92848	So, agricultural production has not fallen but has been growing continuously in the last 5 years, let's look at official data from the State Statistics Office, and according to the second assessment of the State Statistics Office, it grew at an rate of 8.1% in 2021, but of course it should wait for a final assessment and be cautious. As for the value that I mentioned, and I said 2.5 million euros, not 2, does not apply to consultations, concerns the whole process with more activities that included pilot projects and funding 20 analytical studies and model designs, all workshops, all consultations and events, and the strategy was developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, of course on the basis of this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92849	Comrade Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92850	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Minister, one, one of the identified development needs in this document is the improvement of labour skills, important and positive, but there is one big problem, and this is the lack of labour in agriculture and in the country. This problem is looking for a solution through the need to create priority measures to keep the workforce in rural areas. I wonder what measures are planned to address this problem that is affecting the system of agriculture? Also one of the goals is to increase the share of young farmers at 20% since there are no indicators in this general document how do you plan to solve this, how do you plan and motivate young people and what implementing mechanisms are you planning to achieve this extremely important target? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92851	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92852	I appreciate the question. It is quite true that the lack of labour is one of the biggest structural problems of the Croatian economy, and especially Croatian agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture, through investment measures, seeks to reduce this problem by investing in the takeover of economies, in new technologies, in the restructuring of economies, among other things, and the increase of alocated assets in the processing industry that is to be linked, but a large part of the activities are, of course, working together with other government-level authorities in charge of jointly responding to this strategic challenge of labour shortages in a number of areas. As far as young farmers are concerned, of course, not all support for keeping a man in rural space and disserfising measures and taking over technologies, but also an increase in support will certainly bring a contribution, now around 23.../The speaker does not understand....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92853	Thank you very much. Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in the state of the agricultural sector, you stressed that Croatian farmers are mostly small, 70% farmers process less than 5 hectares of agricultural land. They are characterized by fragmented production aimed at low-value products, and mainly participate in short, short-value chains, have higher operating costs, and a weak negotiating position opposite the producer industry that has 1,26 and companies generate 62% of total income, only 0.23% of our registered producers are organised in cooperatives. The strategy is very good because, he sees, he points to problems and solutions, for example. climate change, a new way of life, and realizes that small and medium-sized producers are helped by educated technology and so on. I'm curious about how and will units of regional and local self-government be involved in this strategy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92855	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92856	The implementation of the strategy, of course, will include units of local and regional self-government, have been so far. I will mention only important measures relating to rural infrastructure, measures 7, which are significantly involved in JLS, we are jointly promoting rural space. I will also mention measure 4 and allocation for public irrigation infrastructure, they are customers of Croatian county and units of regional self-government. As far as we're concerned, we're sending a clear message, all of which are necessary to produce both small and medium and large quality, but we're doing an increased redistribution of payments to increase the income of small economies, we're doing a combination to reduce land parcelion, we're potentiating not only more through regular measures of rural development programme, because it's not enough, but also through additional work with manufacturers and also NPOO binding logistics distribution centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92857	Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92858	Dear Minister, that the strategy is effective and good shows the whole debate today, and it was best described by colleague Matula when he said he knew nothing about agriculture, the strategy did not see anything, but here's what he heard about it, and it will be discussed and it has brought down the whole debate so far. What's most important in this strategy by me, but also in any physibilities studies are figures. They are indicated here, so here is the cute brochure you have provided to us, which is exactly what EU funds are talking about, therefore, about grants that do not suffer co-financing from the state budget. And what you may not have pointed out here because I see the skeptics in some of the speakers related to agriculture, which is a data that even surprised me that practically 6.2% of the labour force in the Republic of Croatia is in agriculture unlike the EU, without speaking in percentages of GDP that differ, and these data are listed in this strategy in 2020, thus denying all those who say that we are late with the creation of a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92859	Thank you, colleague Klaric, for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92860	I would just like to comment that in the countries with the most developed agricultural production, the share of labour in agriculture is significantly smaller. The agriculture ministry does not foresee the growth of employees in basic agricultural production but rather the growth of competitiveness, productivity through human retention, takeover by young economies and investment in new technologies, restructuring and modernisation. But the potential for growth in the number of people sees diversification, diversification, bioeconomy, tourism, agriculture-related services, and that is exactly what we aim at through individual sub-measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92861	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, let's get back to the past about 5,000 years. in the back when they called their wooden hooks, we can call them that, even the Sumerians managed to irrigate their fields. We know that currently Israel has almost every inch of farmland in the irrigation system, even the hateful dictator Gaddafi made the Libyan desert a fertile soil, and here we have data that we haven't even reached the 2005 government plan. of 65,000 hectares under irrigation, which is catastrophicly low or 6%. We see here in intervention B4 a good and healthy proposal, but let me ask myself with common sense, will you succeed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92863	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92864	Through the rural development programme over the past few years, we have funded 17 projects that have allowed public irrigation infrastructure for nearly 7,000 hectares. We have also clearly shown our ambition by 2030, and for the Ministry of Agriculture, the project does not end with public infrastructure construction, the project ends with the removal of the remaining significant problem, which is the use of this same agricultural infrastructure, so we now provide specific operations for equipment, for the real implementation of irrigation of agricultural land, so we are doing a combination, which is why we have fought through the rural development programme for the new 100% financing of public infrastructure, but not yet with us, other programmes also provide funds for larger systems that will resist climate change. With us systems up to 15 million euros are individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92865	And finally, colleague Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92866	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I could ask you the same question about how you're doing, but you look good, so I believe you're okay. The strategy is a typical consulting copy paste document which unfortunately has been overpaid and that's what consultants mostly do, so they haven't done anything different here either. We in agriculture produce kilograms, liters, pieces, and I don't see in this strategy that anyone has dealt with these units because I think it's the basis of agricultural production, not some value of money that can be interpreted for inflation, this or that in any way. The fact that we have a decline in agricultural production, the fact that this document pleases the big one again in Croatia, so I ask you where the OPGs are, and here's a box this year will be enough for many to prepare their profits because I don't think they'll even be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92867	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92868	It's not a strategy prescribed a consulting document, please look at all the analysts that the Ministry of Agriculture does and I wouldn't want my colleagues who finally got the right opportunity and learned a lot, which can show a lot about their analytical skills and that they can do it all on their own in the future to thus earn their work. They work great, we have excellent analysts and we present to the entire Croatian public all the documents that we do as never so transparently and openly. We offer agreements for databases, knowledge transfer, etc. I wouldn't say that any document that the Ministry of Agriculture is working on is intended to please anyone or anything. That's why we insist as two steps on everything we do. First, analysis and figures, second enormous effort we put into dialogue, and so it will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92869	Thank you. Minister, thank you. You've responded to 41 lines, and now you can rest in your place for a while, and we'll move on. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? It is. Dear colleague Mariana Petir, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92870	Thank you, Mr. President, ma'am. Ministers, MPs and MPs. The Committee on Agriculture discussed HS as a home working body at the 34th session held on 13 October 2021, a proposal for a Agriculture Strategy by 2030, you can see the full report on the HS pages. I will now look back at the main emphasis of the debate, which said that this act should have recognised the importance of women in rural areas to a greater extent and planned measures to strengthen their position. It has been pointed out that, instead of the term 'natural equality', the terms 'equality between women and men' should be used in all international documents. Financial instruments are essential for sustainability, improvement and increasing the volume of agricultural production and need to be strengthened. The banking sector should recognise the needs of the agricultural sector, in particular the provision of funds for pre-financing of project activities, which will affect the overall usability of European funds. The financial literacy recognised as potential in this strategy in practice should be taken more seriously. The development need for improving the skills of the workforce has been assessed positively and it has been said that labour shortages in agriculture and rural areas need to create priority measures to maintain labour in rural areas. The forest sector should be covered by this act because the ambitions of the new European forest strategy are great. The representatives also asked for action measures the ministry plans to make the support system fairer and more transparent and to provide support to small and medium-sized farmers and poorer areas. It is asked about the reasons why the information contained in this proposal and the recommendations made by the European Commission for the preparation of the strategic plan differ. Positively, the need to adopt standards promoting the public and private system and the quality of certification has been assessed and an inquiry has been put into planned activities to remove non-compliant food from the Croatian market. It has been warned that.../incomprehensible/... that the Republic of Croatia has a modern and well-developed road infrastructure in the country does not correspond to the situation on the ground. It is therefore proposed to carry out an assessment of the infrastructure priorities to be financed in rural areas, but also to include multi-origin funding, as lawmakers believe that funding from the agricultural fund will not be sufficient for all needs of rural areas that account for 80% of the area of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy has ambitious objectives and it is necessary to clearly define the needs of rural areas and agriculture, especially in the product finalisation segment, which also affects the increase in employment, and the food industry can be a job generator. For the recovery of pigmeat production it is necessary to work on reproduction. It has been warned of the poor age structure of farmers and needs to increase the level of education of farmers for which we must use all available mechanisms including education before the start of agricultural production itself. The proposing representative replied that the strategic plan would define the measures and interventions in line with this proposal. It also includes measures for young farmers, investments in processing facilities, the food industry, the promotion of association with producers of the organisation, as well as an increase in the number of OPG women. The ministry is in constant contact with representatives of the banking sector, additional funds are provided via HABOR and HAMAG. Inter-resorship cooperation is needed for public infrastructure projects and in the forestry sector to take advantage of all the benefits we have in terms of biodiversity and biomass. The Ministry of Statistics data was used to produce the act. Quality markings are related to traceability. In the Republic of Croatia to implement Project Proved quality in which the system is producing apples, and soon there will be consumable eggs. In the course of activities for the development of an action plan for organic production, it will focus on the finalisation of the product. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy by 2030, with 6 votes for and 2 votes abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92871	Thank you very much, I am opening a debate on this point and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, there is never a more expensive crop in front of us, another strategy. We all know the key problems, that diagnosis has been set long ago. Productivity is 3 times lower than the EU average, we are not self-sufficient in anything but basic war cultures. We export wheat and corn, import pasta and frozen bakery products. Small producers find it difficult to rent state land for a longer period of time. The new bill on this issue will change almost nothing. And at the end of the last, but no less a significant lack of labour that becomes a growing problem. There's more, but these are burning problems and it's been so long, it's not since yesterday. When we entered the EU, direct payments were 2 billion kuna a year, now 7 billion kuna a year. We spent the money, we didn't solve the problems. Will this strategy make positive moves? Hardly. She didn't go through with it, so neither will this one. One of the objectives listed in the vision at the outset is to restore the rural economy, improve the quality of life and increase employment in rural areas. If you haven't noticed by now, this last census has been presented in a way that is that our rural areas are empty and it becomes a security problem. In the villages, every three houses were empty, and now there are people in every three mountains. The villages are empty and empty and the legitimate question is who are being built and brought water and sewerage. People have left because they're just tired of waiting for you to finally start applying everything that's written in all these strategies. And I have to wonder who these strategies are written for, for us or perhaps for European institutions, in order to meet the prescribed conditions for withdrawing funds. It seems to me that this is another because if these were the goals that we really want to achieve then the same goals would not be repeated. Take a look at the 2002 National paper number 89. The same goals are slightly different, and we have to ask ourselves what they're spent on then all these billions if 20 years later we have the same goals again. Raise competitiveness, resilience to climate change, quality of life, one and the same. It seems that copy paste technology is in fashion not only for coin design but also for writing strategies because that's when the ministries can do so, so that's when we don't, I'm going to quote the vice governor, the young, fragile artistic souls doing the same thing. And perhaps it would be good to illustrate what has been achieved from these objectives of the previous strategy. We have been hearing about the repositioning of the entire sector for years and the result is that more and more war cultures are being produced, not less. So more and more corn, more and more wheat, and it won't lead to self-sufficiency in four basic categories, which are meat, milk, fruit and vegetables. Always the same phrases, diversification, repositioning, competitiveness, optimization, etc., that I do not list, phrases, phrases that were derived from excessive repetition and really no longer mean anything to anyone. What does the strategy mean from field to table to our pig breeders? It's been completely inconclusive to produce pork for months now for importing it to our growers. The surpluses on the European market end with us because of the embargo on imports of pork introduced by countries in the Far East when the swine fever occurred. How did you protect your domestic production? Not at all. They are underachieving another strategy that will obviously remain only a dead letter on paper. The only thing you're likely to meet is the reduced consumption of artificial fertilisers and the increased share of organic farming, but honestly, what's going to happen? The contributions will be further reduced and food prices increased. These are some of the green policies that come from Europe and which are adopted without any objection and without thinking about what is important to Croatia and what are our goals and priorities. It is interesting how the EU recommendations and guidelines are applied in part. When it comes to connecting agriculture and tourism, then you are unable to cope with domestic products in hotels and restaurants on the coast. Regional development is another myth that repeats itself in all strategies, as well as in this one. If you had made regional development only 20% of what is written in all strategies and so on, there would be no difference in purchasing power even 55% when comparing Slavonia and Zagreb. The regional distribution centre in Osijek for fruit and vegetables was promised in 2017. It is not yet finished. We all know that in this government speed is not a virtue, but five years for the freezer and the packing plant is still a little too much. You have finally learned and acknowledged in this Strategy that the effectiveness of public expenditure on agriculture is not uniform and it goes in that category better ever than ever. At least you understood and confessed to what was clear absolutely to everyone. The Republic of Croatia, with more than 8 thousand hectares of nasada nuts, holds 10% stakes in the EU, but only 0.35% of total production, means we have 0.35% of production at the time. It could be called the Nutmeg Croatian paradox. As a matter of fact, it is an incentive for agriculture without production. The Orah was planted only because of generous support, which through organic farming amounted to more than 1000 kuna per hectare and data from the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, show that according to the size of the area occupied by the nuts, the second most grown fruit culture in the Republic of Croatia, after olives, before coffins and apples. When we look at the offerings, it's not exactly like that, it's very different. Sectoral support will be granted to approved producer organisations according to the strategy. In late 2020 there were 17 of them in Croatia. 17 producer organisations from 8 sectors that gather only about 700 members and have over 150 thousand agricultural holdings. The recognised producer organisations operate in only 9 counties located in continental Croatia, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska have 3 each in Istria, Dalmatia and Lici have none. Then how they're going to make it happen, it's not clear to anyone. Four other requirements were received with 30.10.2020, beekeeping products, 3 in potato production, but we have to ask ourselves what is wrong with other non-manufacturers. A specific objective is being pursued through the whole document, which says production will be brought into line with market requirements. Sounds nice, but what about our pig growers? I have to get back to their problems because they've been going on for over a year. How could they possibly have suspected that significant surpluses of pork would appear on the market that would end right on our market? How could they comply with this production with market requirements? Absolutely not. And now you tell me, don't tell me, tell our breeders how they can comply with the requirements of the market. When you explain that to our farmers who every little bit destroy the import of some cheap product, then I will believe that all this you have written is not another strategy for Europe, and then I will believe that this strategy will not only remain a dead letter on paper as well as many others, therefore we, Croatian sovereigns cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92873	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will speak the esteemed representative of Anja Shimpraga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92874	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In an effort to define as clearly as possible the direction of future agricultural policy reforms, but also the harmonisation of those in the process, as well as measures and activities to restore and activate development potentials and rural environments, it is important to adopt such a strategic document. Each country has a responsibility to establish a framework for political institutional change that contributes to the more efficient development of the agricultural sector. With one concept like this, we actually respond to the external and internal challenges and disorders that we face. Since I come from rural areas, I know how important agriculture is a branch of the economy that is at the same time slightly unfair and neglected, however, the fact is that efforts exist to change this situation. Croatia has a lot of agricultural land over a million and a half hectares. In support of the claims of importance, it also goes to the fact that, in 2020, the agricultural sector is the primary sector including fisheries and forestry, and in the overall GDP, the Republic of Croatia accounted for 3.3% and employed 6.2% of the workforce, and it is also the sector which separates about 1.3% of GDP from public funds. When it is known how many people in Croatia live directly or indirectly from activities related to the agricultural sector, it is clear that the singles mentioned must be increased. In the context of the importance of agriculture and its development, it is important to have a set of objectives and ways of achieving them, but not to ignore at least the indicative deadlines in which the objectives set are to be achieved because only in such a way can the effectiveness of a particular strategy be measured. The agriculture strategy by 2030, together with certain documents on which we are soon to be discussed, should be the basis for raising productivity, and thus a significant increase in competitiveness and a focus towards a strong turn in agriculture that we need very much. We expect that through the strategic plans developed in line with the common EU agricultural policy, more detailed plans will be set up to better define all activities, i.e. that this 2022 year will be the year in which significant and faster changes will take place, investments when we talk about agriculture. The strategy is a roof document in the agriculture sector whose adoption is foreseen by the Agriculture Act and we have been waiting for almost 20 years, and it further supports the implementation of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. In particular, it is important to focus and plan to increase the value of agricultural production to 30 billion kuna by 2030 as well as productivity and to strengthen the promotion of agricultural holdings, especially young farmers. In addition to national funding for the implementation of the strategy, €5 billion from European funds and estimated to be spent €7.5 billion by 2030 for the implementation of the objectives and priorities of this strategy, which is not a small amount. The strategy has four strategic goals as we have heard here several times. The strategy clearly highlights a common vision that recognises the importance of larger agricultural production, respecting the need for sustainable management of natural resources in the context of accelerated climate change. It also stresses the need to design a growth model for the agricultural food sector that contributes to balanced territorial development where less developed areas need to be enabled or national support from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy and/or the point advantage over those more developed areas but not in a way that the first and fourth groups of developments have the same number of points. However, all of this will not be possible unless we try to be more productive, more consistent with the market, more efficient and more competitive. What surprised me is the fact that Croatia is, after the representation of women in the holding positions in agriculture in the upper half of the list of Member States and that it achieves significantly more favourable indicators than most Member States so-called. old members. It should certainly be commended that such an approach is praised because the strategy in question, within the framework of agricultural policy measures, contributes to the objectives of reducing gender inequality in rural areas. However, the proposal for a strategy has not sufficiently recognised the importance of women in rural areas and no measures have been planned to strengthen their position. Although this strategy provides a framework and further activities will be developed through action plans, encouraging women to launch their own business and increasing the number of OPG holders should be covered by the strategy proposal. I am pleased that more emphasis has been placed on increasing the number of young farmers as a stock for the future and for the development of small farms. One of the success indicators will be to increase the share of young farmers as farmers. The translation of a strategy that says that Croatia has a modern and well-developed road infrastructure simply cannot agree to fit the situation on the ground, which requires an assessment of the infrastructure priorities to be financed in rural areas and to include other available European funds, and for the reason that the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development will not be sufficient to meet all needs of rural areas covering 80% of the area of the Republic of Croatia. We can add that neither access nor agricultural routes in some areas are adapted to the agricultural machinery of a newer age. We must be aware that the strategy is just a framework and that much will depend on the new more detailed documents to be brought here in the future, which will be more concrete or will be implementing. We need to monitor how and how far the objectives that will be achieved from this strategy are met, because that is the only way we will succeed in estimating success and taking possible interventions. The agricultural resources at our disposal must be used maximum to improve the blood count of our economy itself. At the same time, certain parts of our agricultural policy cannot be matched by EU agricultural policies, but only for reasons because we are one of the youngest Member States whose agricultural sector is certainly not yet at the level at which we should be in certain segments for other Member States. Only good agricultural policy can lead to the resuscitation of our villages, which are increasingly empty, and which is best witnessed by the last census. Given the importance of the strategy in question, this SDSS strategy will support the adoption of the same strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92875	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the time will be shared by the respected representative Martincevic and the respected representative Hrebak. First of all, the respected representative Martincevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92876	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Without a clear vision and at least a medium-term defined strategy in any sector of human activity, it is not realistic to expect positive shifts in continuity, and this is particularly true for agriculture. The development of agriculture, often the very survival of agriculture in our country, depends crucially on state policies. So in any case, we support the fact that the strategy is up to 2030. suggested that we discuss it today. The vision itself in these four strategic objectives is well set, but we still need to warn about the non-recognition of the key assumptions for the future of agriculture and the necessary project without which there is no future, which is the rounding up of land, or of cohesion. In fact, the increase in productivity and competitiveness that has been mentioned so much today cannot be realised because it assumes use and machinery, and often irrigation, which has also been a lot of words here today, and neither of them is possible to implement without rounding up land, and this is not a single power in the last 60 years. I am sorry that this strategy is going in that direction. So, this strategy without a commission can't unfortunately be called a serious strategy, and that's why we expect and look here in front of the Reformist Club, so we're looking for a complementary strategy here with the programme, with deadlines, control points and the planned budget of the commission. The problems we face are mentioned in the text somewhere, so it is said that 70% of Croatian farmers process less than 5 hectares of land, but what is not said, and it is equally important, for example, that in northern Croatia through, which through vegetables, and which has the highest added value in agriculture average parcel in the register of farmers is 0.38 hectares. For comparisons, 45% of German potato manufacturers, I am talking about potatoes because it is the most representative in northern Croatia, it has plots greater than 50 hectares, and in all of them 1.5%, so the differences in the ability to apply machinery, and therefore, of course, the differences in competitiveness are more than clear. When we talk about irrigation today, it was the same word today, very funny is what Dretar said, so about irrigation, so hundreds of years of Mediterranean and all other countries have a irrigation system, today it's 12.5%. We're at 2.5% according to the data I have, or about 25,000 hectares. The strategy we bring up by 2030 provides for a jump to 50,000 hectares, but again without the assumption of a commission, it's neither real nor real. Irrigation also has a significant impact on strengthening the sustainability and resilience of agricultural production to climate change, but today and tomorrow, there will be a need that the strategy warns about, which is to reduce the risk of insurance. It is said that less than 8% of registered farmers in Croatia provide their products and that is correct. However, in this part there is a solution and is already realised in Varazdin County where it is 2017. was provided 5, so literally 5 agricultural holdings, and in 2021 after the implementation of our model, we raised that figure to 476. So, this increase of almost 100 times is not an accident and I recommend that the ministry indeed honestly study and apply this model, if not done by the ministry, here is certainly a recommendation for other counties. It is about the combination of European money and it has been provided and there are European funds and county support for the payments of farmers themselves for the premium is about 4% of the value of premiums. It is, of course, a model that farmers immediately recognized, and that is why we have such a high rate of insurance farmers in our county. We only hope that this model, as well as the pilot of the communication project that we have also launched, and what the minister is aware of and we were at her meeting, the current county government will not stop as unfortunately as it has been done with some other projects, so please the Ministry that it has a serious eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92877	The respected representative, Hrebak, will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92878	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We will support the strategy because we believe that the strategy is good, that it shows that we are part of the EU because practically all the objectives of the common agricultural policy are embedded in this strategy, but we also have to take care of our own, our own, our Croatian specificities, and the biggest difference between us and other EU members is that we have almost a third of the land that was once agriculturally out of place today and has mostly grown in shrubs and trees. So our first goal must be in the coming years as quickly and as many surfaces as possible to bring culture and return to production. To that end, it is necessary to develop a legislative framework that will enable this, but also to stimulate farmers to engage themselves in the work. As the former states have already had depopulations and rural evictions, and has gone on drastically during exactly the years of war, unfortunately due to economic migration, the common problem is that this land cannot be put into operation because it has no owners. The owners left Croatia for various reasons and did not take care of their property, and property in addition to rights and obligations, so they did exactly the damage to Croatian agriculture and those who remained to live and work in Croatia. In this land, uncontrollably increasing the population of feral pigs and other wild animals that are making significant damage to crops and livestock of farmers who remain in Croatia and who live in these areas. In order to motivate owners to take care of their property, but for their current or former citizens, it is necessary to introduce fines which are of course not popular, which is exactly what unprocessed agricultural land is, but if we want to make some progress, then it is really necessary because we believe that change is important and that this must bring perspective in agriculture and life precisely in this abandoned rural space. How to raise funds for the operational implementation of that objective itself? We believe that 15% of the funds transferred from the Rural Development Fund to direct payments should be directed right into returning to the function of producing abandoned agricultural land and investing in the long-term assets of the CAP. On the other hand, the high direct payments we have are one of the main reasons for reducing the value of agricultural production and their reduction can only have a positive impact on the growth of production. Inheritance law is a separate topic, we need to see how these European countries have been resolved. I know it's especially one big problem, I don't want much of it today, so the ministry will have to deal with that problem. In fact, it would be advised that the Law on Inheritances in some way would legally prevent the fission of such too few economies, and in particular not to divide co-ownership on agricultural land particles because some property was divided into 1,600 co-ownerships. As the years pass, generations pass only further, the country divides and divides, and it is very difficult to round up to make a certain serious agricultural production. Agricultural land is of particular interest and importance to the Republic of Croatia and it is precisely this problem of ownership and the function of the agricultural land that we can raise additional Croatian agriculture, but this problem needs to be dealt with seriously. Of course, we have some additional suggestions on the subject, we will further communicate with the ministry, but in any case we will support this agricultural strategy, we believe that it is a step forward, but we also need to supplement it with some other elements to make it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92879	Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, the respected representative, William Matula, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92880	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I asked State Secretary Tušek at a thematic session downstairs that took place in Sibenik among other things, and now this is the same reason before I start talking about the strategy to see how the government actually implements its decisions. This is a decision from the 3rd month 2019 when the Government decided that the Ministry of Agriculture would implement a pilot project to introduce green public procurement on the principle of a short supply chain in the KBC Zagreb, the largest hospital in the Republic of Croatia's health system. And on... to assess the justification of including local food producers in the food supply system for food needs in major hospital systems and other public institutions. Nice, yeah. The pilot project of education and application of relative weights starts in KBC Zagreb, and next year we include all other institutions. Is it true, Secretary of State? It was in 2019, three years later nothing or KBC Zagreb, there is never a reason for the earthquake to continue eating there patients eat, eat and produce food every day. We all know about the action plan, all of this is actually the reason why I took this example because the minister said that it would not follow that strategy, in fact, the EU that is going to increase organic production by 2030 to 25% of the land to be under organic production. The action plan that I was already talking about here for Zagreb's counties for the development of organic agriculture is fantastically made, it's perfectly clear and it's absolutely amazing that it's not being used and that no institution is involved, and this certainly has the possibility of not being included in this action plan so far. In order to get acquainted with the really huge area of agriculture, politics, I've really read in this year and a half like I said, and I was quoting here before I knew that this document would be more than just a farm so beautifully formed and divided to us by clubs. But what's interesting is that very often I come across a famous sentence, a vision that sounds like this, produce a larger amount of nutritious and high-quality food at competitive prices. It sounds like this, can it be clearer and more summary, in fact reminds us of why the Beer Party fought in the Czech Republic in the first meeting of their Democratic Parliament who fought for the greatest quality of beer and the lowest price, of course. However, when I talked about it with people who have either worked in the system for decades or are now working, they told me that, that this formula, to produce a larger amount of nutritious and high-quality food at competitive prices and different versions of this sentence, has been adorned for dozens of years by strategic documents that devastation our agriculture from year to year. Well, some tell me in principle this.../incomprehensible/... done correctly, I think it's done, most of it was done within the framework of the project and with the help of experts of the World Bank and everything here is basically covered, shaped as experienced consultants do. So of course they tell me, it was made on the basis of documents I say more than a farm in the frameworks of the green plan, a strategy from field to table, in line with the common agricultural policy for the period from '21. By '27, we've actually heard from the secretary since '23. By '27, but many will say there's a lot missing here. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc, I have concentrated on organic agriculture and I think that makes sense, but for example, the ecological agriculture that is highlighted in Europe as a need in our strategy is mentioned only as an implementing mechanism. That's what I quoted the minister as saying, it's this famous implementation mechanism B3 and very little, very gross, but it assures us that an action plan will come and that there will be a national plan right for organic agriculture. However, why believe it is enough to just say that in more than 5 years, the implementation of the rural development programme of the planned EUR 2.47 million has been agreed only 0.42 million or 16.38% and a miserable EUR 0.02 million has been paid. This is the source of the report on the use of European structural investment funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes, which is from 2020. It means that there is really no real interest at all and that we will still work on this very small, thin layer of humus that remains in Croatia and that such soil is naturally used to fertilisers, pesticides and everything that is not even.../incomprehensible/... is not at all sustainable. This strategy had to focus decisively and strongly on agriculture towards so-called. So in Europe they call it peasant agroecology, this adjective is not in any way offensive and I don't think it should be, the people who live and work in the country don't have that problem. This strategy had to strongly support the traditional, sustainable method of food production along with new approaches and everything innovative, but also the traditional one, which unfortunately disappears in our eyes, and Europe is very much fighting for it. Globally, small farmers, farmers and fishermen feed more than 70% of the population using only 25% of the agricultural resources. The source of this data is an ETC group, and I think it tells us a lot because agriculture claims it's so-called. peasant agriculture is unable to feed the growing population. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have no danger of growing the population we are in a completely different problem. And I say there are global strategies for the really sustainable agricultural clearest gathering around the La Via Campesin movement, but I'm not going to go into those details right now. The problem is that when we're done with this 2030 strategy and the economic and climate horizon is going to change completely, and that's 9 years of people, that's 9 years from now. And then the people who will get used to this and these incentives they will suddenly find themselves in that they won't be able to do for these big classic ways of production, they won't, first of all, be so much of a fossil fuel but in '31, as much as we want the last oil drilling on Kornati and on Plitvice Lakes or I don't know where because we allowed it in principle, well we're not just adding it now, but families in such family farms are deeply connected to their economy, are sustainable, have an average number of children and it's also the strongest demographic measure which you can even imagine. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92881	Now, thank you very much, now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representatives Petrov and Bulj will speak. First of all, the respected representative of Petrov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92882	Fellow Members and colleagues, today we are discussing the Strategy for Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, and we are going in turn. First of all, the title of the document wasn't right, I guess they were ashamed to admit that they were late with the document for two years, so they deleted some of the title. Secondly, the proposal for a strategy they gave us is a purely generic, bureaucratic text in which there is not a single concrete solution to the accumulated problems in Croatian agriculture. In short, this is a temple that you can apply to absolutely every country in the world. There is no solution, no measure to which you can solve a specific situation, specific problems in Croatia agriculture. The third part of this document should also be seen in the Rural Development Programme, which should include concrete measures for the period from 2021 to 2027. The document is not finished either, and it has been late for a year, this is what you need to get money out of the EU funds. Bravo. Fourthly, in four strategic objectives, I would like to set the first example, to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector that you have developed in 5 general objectives. For the last 2 years, you have been implementing this document because it has been going on since 2020, and for the eye, an increase in added value of agricultural products, i.e. how you will create a product with higher financial value, so that our farmers can earn more, e.g. In the year 2021, I'll give you this example. You have exported a billion tonnes of cereals, exported 624 thousand tonnes of value added product, introduced, imported 690 thousand tonnes of product with higher value, and you are talking about you will promote added value. This is the 2021 data. You've exported raw materials, and you're importing finished products and you're boasting that you're going to do this. Interesting, 2021, we're not talking 2000. You're talking about support for small and medium-sized farmers. I'm sorry, you've been using that as a flossule for 30 years. Let's do an analysis of the height of the support you're giving to, and you'll see who you're giving it to. You give big farmers, big economies more than all small and medium-sized farmers together. 90% of small and medium-sized farmers use 30% of the financial support, and those 10 large benefit 70% of the total support. 90% of farmers, small and medium use 30% of agricultural land. Those 10% large use 70% of the total agricultural land. Who are you selling stories to to to stimulate small and medium? This is your policy. You've managed this sector. And to be clear, from the last 30 years, HDZ has managed 70% of the time with the Ministry of Agriculture, these are your results. Next item, land policy, revolutionaryly announced law in 2018, what was done? You haven't even divided 10,000 hectares, there are 750 thousand hectares of agricultural land unused, and that's on the table of the Minister of Agriculture, which was given to her by the academic community. That's clear information. We lose billions a year because it didn't function elementally, which should be put into function. We don't use our own resources. The consequences, ultimately, of your unhappiness, of not solving these problems, are seen in the depopulation of Croatia, in the emigration of Croatia, in hundreds of thousands of people evicted, especially from Slavonia. These are concrete results of the nelados. Today you bring a bureaucratic document that has no single measure to solve these problems. No burning problem for Croatian agriculture. That's what you're talking about today. What's finally going to happen? What's going on? It happens we're dependent on imports. There is a depopulation of Croatia, there is a deserting of our resources. There's an unorganized agriculture going on. You've had 20 years to show what you know, what you've shown when these are your results because you have a continuous sin of inaction. Paper suffers nonsense, you can write anything on it. The problem is you're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92883	He will continue on behalf of the club, the respected representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92884	Agriculture. I'm sorry she's not a minister here. I'd like her to listen to the clubs. Maybe she's not interested because we're trying to look the truth in the eye. Moratorium 2023 at 7. i.e., we lost energy, energy independence, unfortunately and agricultural land, the foreigners will take over from us next year because we are inequate in the EU, with the extension of 2020, it is said that for 3 years, the Croatian farmer will pass the area of agricultural land, i.e. That these 700 thousand acres of unprocessed agricultural land will be processed and that we will be competitive. What did the Secretary of State do? Absolutely nothing. In addition to punishing farmers in these Covid measures if they were to fertilize their gardens for seven kilometers, they would not see their fields, nor how many of them you would send them 8 thousand kunas of fines for insulating pandemic times, you only did that to farmers. They wrote punishments. I'd just say agriculture is what matters most. Self-sufficiency is the most important thing. 7 days to close our border, the Croatian peasant cannot produce enough agricultural products at this time for 7 days to feed our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I've been listening to so much nonsense here since I was a parliamentary representative, and I've proposed laws, and now they're in the proposal for a ban on GMOs, transportation, import, sowing and trade. You refused. The ban on glyphosate because we import goods. pork and other meat we import into the Republic of Croatia which only bring cheap prices to destroy our peasant and various diseases much more severe than the covid-19, much more difficult to saturate by glyphosate. I also proposed a ban on the sale of agricultural land before 2020, so somehow the minister, the ministry, agreed. And now there is a ban on agricultural land because the Croat cannot buy either a natural or legal person in Hungary's agricultural land. Are we equal in the EU? While Hungary will be able to buy, the Russians will be able to buy, the Ukrainian will be able to buy, the German will be able to buy agricultural land. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty, it is known, we all know that. Here I was as mayor I had a little problem and I was with the minister at a good meeting where we were all from the veterinary inspection, the veterinary administration, we have an animal problem. cattle that receive incentives and live in difficult conditions cause great damage in the area of Sinj and Neretva, as well as in other areas. I'm the one who made that point. You know what I got? The only punishment I get is because as mayor, I've potentiated it, the punishments of inspection. That is not what the other mayors and the mayors and the surrounding ones and those who are in HDZ get. So shut up, don't talk about the problem. I don't care that the inspectorate is coming, he's under the control of Mikulic Andrija and the like. And I knew it would be a pressure on me, but you destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian villages. 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, only in Dalmatia 200,000 hectares is unprocessed agricultural land that needs to be fed, I'm talking about Dalmatia, 11 million people. And what did you do? We've lost energy independence and now give what's to be protected by the Constitution, which is agricultural land. Is that a strategy? Croatian village and Croatian peasants destroyed and without Croatian peasants there is no rich Croatian state. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92885	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and a respected representative, Marijana Petir, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state with a co-worker, MPs and MPs. The agricultural strategy is a roof strategy document in the agriculture sector, whose adoption is foreseen by the Agriculture Act, which has been pending for nearly 20 years, which further supports the implementation of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. and it is the basis for the development of a national strategic plan within the framework of the common agricultural policy. It provides for interventions in the framework of the CAP for the period 2021-2027, and in particular it is important to focus and plan to reach 2030. increase the value of agricultural production volume to 30 billion kuna per year as well as labour productivity by 60% and more strongly support young farmers whose share would be up to 2030. He was supposed to grow to 20%. The aim of this strategy is to increase the area under irrigation to 50,000 hectares, the area under organic production to 140,000 hectares, the area in glass and plastic production to 500 hectares, increase the number of pigs in tow by 35% and cattle by 20%, expand the area under permanent crops by 5,000 hectares, build 20 regional distribution centres and increase the share of producers participating in short food supply chains by 30%. This strategy should contribute to the production of a higher quantity of high-quality food at competitive prices, sustainable management of natural resources, with an increase in resilience to climate change and contribute to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. We will agree that the goals are ambitious, but they are not unattainable. Their implementation by estimates will need to invest 7.5 billion euros for Croatian farmers, but also remove numerous administrative, technical and other obstacles that stand in the way of the transformation of Croatian agriculture and the remnant of people in the Croatian village. The strategy is based on four strategic objectives and 15 development needs of the Croatian agricultural and food sector and contains 22 implementation mechanisms. There are a lot of challenges to respond to, and one of the priorities is to increase the added value of agricultural production through a greater finalisation of products with distinctive special characteristics belonging to higher price classes, including segments of fresh products and gastro-delicacies, which would bring greater income to farmers and well position them on the market. Constant debates on whether we need support in agriculture and how they are directed have led to a conclusion not only with us but across the EU that we need to reroute them to small and medium-sized agricultural producers, poor areas, which is also a shift that would lead to greater competitiveness and diversification of agricultural production. Our producers are not competitive and have no negotiating power because they are not associated, so they need to be encouraged to connect with each other to producer organisations, but they should also be connected to customers. In this respect, we also need to improve logistics because the fresh products of small producers are difficult to get to the market because of the insufficient number of logistics service providers. The strategy recognises the need to build distribution centres for fruits and vegetables that are partly planned to build from the NPOO, and that is where we hope to support the construction of distribution centres where we really have production. It is estimated that less than 8% of the producers registered in the farmer’s register ensure their production, insurance is mainly used by medium and large manufacturers at a time when climate change takes a toll and causes huge damages, and future forecasts are not bright in terms of potential elemental accidents insurance can be one of the most effective instruments for the protection of crops and crops. However, we must say that farmers are tormented by insurance workers who do not want to provide them with production or do so under unfavourable conditions, and in this respect the need for the Ministry of Agriculture to be involved as an intermediary in these talks so that farmers do not remain short sleeves. Access to loans is limited for small farmers because they are seen as entities of greater credit risk and small return, and there is still an unresolved pre-financing issue without which farmers simply cannot enter into some more demanding projects, so this is a problem to be given a quick and effective answer. The strategy recognises the need for effective and transparent land management systems to be applied as soon as possible in agricultural production. We know that the allocation of state agricultural land is administratively slow, that the allocation is under-emphasised on the very production and control of economic programmes of business entities and we expect that this problem, which has been identified and this strategy, is being removed in the future. Today, agriculture and the food industry together account for 6% of Croatia's total GDP. One million kuna invested in rural development is estimated to affect the opening of 9.39 jobs while investing one million kuna in direct payments brings 5.9 new jobs. This means that we must strategically consider what projects we will invest in in order to gain added value from these investments, revive Croatian villages, retain existing and attract new village residents and achieve productivity and competitiveness in agricultural production. The mistakes that occurred during the previous budget period should serve as a lesson for the future. In 2019, direct payments accounted for 37.8% of the net added value achieved by Croatian farmers, which is 11.3% higher than the EU average. The high share of direct income payments is recorded by the olive industry and mixed permanent plantations, mixed livestock, mixed crop and livestock farming, dairy and winemaking, horticulture and cereals and fruit growing. These sectors include 76% of the Croatian agricultural population and create more than 50% of the net added value of all Croatian farmers. In the production structure of the Republic of Croatia, low-value cultures are dominated, limiting higher land productivity. The lack of investment in capital, technology, research and development is further hampering productivity. We are competitive in the production of corn, sugar tails, sunflowers, soybeans, raspberries, cherries, hazelnuts, peppers and live animals. 70% of farmers handle less than 5 hectares of agricultural land, and farmers are mostly older in life, they are 40% older than 65 years while their income is highly dependent on direct payments. It is clear from this data set out in the strategy that we need a turn-off in particular, given that the EU singles out 2% of GDP for innovation and development, and we stand out only 0.81%). Therefore, the projection that by 2030 we will allocate 2.5% of GDP for innovation and development is the way to increase the productivity of agricultural labour in Croatia. This needs to be preceded by digitisation and transfer of knowledge because, according to the digitisation of rural areas, we are 20 places in the EU, and the share of farmers with high vocational education remains 52% below the EU average. One consultant in Croatia comes for 585 agricultural economies, which is not enough, so the advisory service should be capitulated and invested in the knowledge and skills of the advisers, and besides the public need to finance a private advisory service which this strategy recognized. Croatia's agricultural food balance is better but it is still negative and although for years it has been talking about connecting green and blue fields and exporting agricultural products exactly in tourism, this practice has taken place in rare cases, so we expect that implementation of this strategy, the potential we have for the placement of agricultural products in tourism, is fully operational. While other countries are struggling with increased climate requirements, Croatia has many advantages compared to the rest of the EU. We use twice as many pesticides and mineral fertilisers as the EU average, we grow areas under organic production, we have the greatest potential for the development of the EU's bioeconomy and the best preserved biodiversity. All of this could contribute to the creation of green sustainable jobs, increase the average income of farmers, reduce the risk of poverty in rural areas and increase the share of renewable energy production. The agricultural strategy recognises this potential and provides for measures to launch it. Therefore, given the all-listed club of HDZ representatives, it will support the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92887	Thank you very much. Since it's 1 hour now, then we're going to make a small break as usual, and we're going to start taking a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. So, this one here, we're going to wait until it's a second and a one, as it is a row and congruent. We will now return to our point and to the Clubs of Representatives, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS will now speak the Honorable Representative Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are going back to the theme of the Agriculture Strategy. It was never a problem for me to commend the Minister and the Ministry, and I'm really grateful for some of the things in Istria that helped. But it's also never a problem for me to say what's wrong, after all, it's my obligation as an opposition parliamentary representative. We welcome that the strategy has been developed, but it should be made clear that the strategy is too general for a strategic document that should have clearly defined objectives and an action plan that will allow for the realisation of these objectives. Because this strategy will not solve the loss of the growing agricultural areas that are vegetative, thus becoming part of the forest-economic bases, and they were orics for example. In addition to the loss of arable surfaces, an increasing number of mature and healed surfaces are emerging in which an increasingly uncontrollable game is breeding, resulting in damage to what little crops are left. Not to mention how much more money is needed to invest in such areas on which agritechnical preconditions should be created in order to be at all ready for agricultural production compared to those which have been processed for years. Another problem is that agricultural land is daily devastated by parceling and preparing for wild construction and selling to foreigners. I know there's a desire to solve this problem and it's under procedure, but it's not just law enough. It has to be a strategic decree to leave after us at least a somewhat preserved space and the most important food-produced area for generations. Furthermore, the Agricultural Land Act is still inefficient or partially efficient because it is more than obvious that farmers cannot win state agricultural land through competitions anywhere in the long term, this strategy will not be resolved, this is a key issue for Croatian agricultural production because without increasing the farmland, no strategy will increase agricultural production. We therefore hope that the amendments to the laws that are in the process of making correct errors in the law itself here between the two readings will speed up the availability of agricultural land. The strategy then speaks of climate change and the need to build public irrigation systems, not taking into account, at least not enough in terms of coastal Croatia as an area where it is particularly pronounced, in fact the increasing need for irrigation because it is a karst area where there is no agricultural production on the one hand without irrigation. On the other hand, the construction of the irrigation systems itself is burdened with extremely complex procedures for the outcome of acts for the construction of others, and the financing of construction by units of regional self-government. The Rural Development Programme provides that the highest amount of eligible construction costs is up to 15m euros, so already in the Istrian County for the construction of a system that is in the final phase of the county must be allocated by around 20% more than the APR-s contract, although 100% of the funding is to be completed and the funds from the European Union are to the right extent not to be used, or it would be good to negotiate more than 15m euros, or to agree 20.30, as it is necessary because the next system for which the building acts have been evaluated is estimated at 20m euros, and the question is whether this system will be built because funds should be provided. It does not say anything in the Strategy, not specifically about this case, but about this topic, so I wonder how a system in Primorje Croatia, which requires construction and cumulation, will be built in the future at all. And it's not just about the segment of agriculture, I understand, I understand, but I don't accept it, because whenever you bring in documents related to agriculture, but also other related resources, such as water management, harmful water action, etc., you think mainly about low-level Croatia, I repeat, I understand, but I don't accept because you should take into account the diversity of the Republic of Croatia, as well as different needs in different parts of the country. This country is beautiful, too different, too diverse. Moreover, in some parts of Croatia that do not have fertile soil, such as Slavonia and Baranja have shown themselves and have proven that top agricultural products can be produced at world level. I don't mean just Istria, not to always talk about Istria, the Kvarner Islands, Dalmatia, Dalmatian islands, have their own adjuts, have their own top products. We're too small to fight with quantities, we can only fight with quality. And there's a strategy that's key, there's strategic goals that are key. I said the same thing before, 25, 30 years ago, strategic goals in Istria were created, or written to be the world’s best olive region today. It's a process, a long one, and the strategy is a key document. This strategy does not talk about how we will keep young people in the countryside in developed areas, talks about underdeveloped areas, but also about developed areas, fortunately, living young people who would like to deal with agriculture and deal with and do not say how we will make agricultural activities as attractive as tourism. Well, just in areas with the greatest tourism development, it is necessary to encourage agriculture because everyone knows that the combination of tourism and agricultural profit combinations is right there. This is how it is in all developed European countries, but obviously in this Strategy we do not seek to become such a country, or perhaps I have misjudged something but we are further penalizing developed regions in a way that farmers in these areas either weigh or do not receive grants in competitions. Had an example, winemakers from Istria who had run for the construction of new or expansion and modernization of old wine cellars with tasting halls, but their funds were not approved. It says in the Strategy that it will continue to do so, at least by 2030. Progress is not achieved through the regulation and discrimination of the developed, we are talking about the index of development, the points, etc., but the same criteria for all and will then emerge the best, most capable, or most competitive in the market. The strategy is a set of visions where we go, not compromise. If we want competitive agriculture in the future, it needs to be made attractive to a young man. Digitalize it, automate it to the most possible extent, robotize it, it's not the future anymore, it's the present. Youths also need to be highly motivated for schooling in agricultural occupations because they will go to choose the professions easier, more attractive. They need to see this... it is necessary to digitise agriculture in order to manage it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, the farmer needs to offer a system. From the seed plan, offer several cultures that are most suitable for its agricultural land, plan production to not sow all the same culture, plan all the necessary agritechnical measures with the aim of making higher yields until the organized purchase of the pre-known purchase price through the producer organisation. More content strategy must be discussed, then every farmer will know what and how much he can expect for his work and the money he invested in agricultural production. It is necessary to know at all times what is sown on each agricultural area, which agritechnical measures have been implemented and what is the contribution to the agricultural area. The State would therefore, in real time, have all the data on processed agricultural areas, the amount of sown and the type of seed, the consumption of protective products, the hours of work in production, the quantities produced and the income achieved. Then we have a substance, then we know what we're talking about and how to plan on. We have the ARCOD system, we need to upgrade it, today it's not a problem. We have excellent informers, eventually in Croatia. For each farmer, it would be very simple by means of a mobile device, for example. to enter into the system at the time of the event and then those farmers who enter all of the above information into the system, of course to be users of state aid and further stimulated if necessary, showed the way, and those who do not go, should perhaps not be rewarded to the same extent. If it's hard, I don't think so. Is that what the strategy says? It doesn't say. Maybe it's not the strategy of that document, but I don't know which one should write it, of course, in one way. That should be how to manage agriculture in the near future. But according to this Strategy, by 2030 it will not be. If it had written only those few sentences by 2030, that would have been enough for us, and this isn't a strategy, it's a story for a little dick, as we'd be told in Istria. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92890	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the Honorable Representative, Niksha Vukas, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92891	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Ministers with associates, today we have a Agriculture Strategy until 2030 and unfortunately I get the impression that our agriculture will not reach a strategic document that will answer all the questions of our farmers. First of all, the Strategy is, in my opinion, too broad and this document will not solve the problems of our farmers, but what is likely for whoever wrote it is important that it meets the guidelines for writing such documents of the EU's common agricultural production. I've tried reading this document on many occasions, and I don't think it's a strategy. There are no excuses, several basic research has not been made, the results of which should be pillars and decision-makers or at least I have not seen these documents and these researches in this Strategy. And we need to understand that the new EU CAP is aimed at environmental and climate issues to the same extent as the sectors that are essentially the basis of the European Union CAP. It is a valuable approach and should be welcomed, but unfortunately our agriculture is not at that stage of development. It is certainly necessary to take care of climate change because of the risks that climate change poses. From everything listed in the document but I didn't understand what would happen, for example, with a sunflower plantation that wasn't adequately secured and collapsed 20 days before harvesting like last year in Slavonia because it's a strategic issue. What instruments to offer to farmers and through which the authorities of the state administration, with which the insurance or reinsurance undertaking is provided. This is not a market risk, and to the greatest extent possible, the farmer does not have the means or qualifications to help ensure such protection against climate risks. Isn't that our mission? You have the right to specify possible opportunities in the text. But what about the fires in Dalmatia and the islands that are not planted, and what about the vineyards that will unfortunately burn this summer? Croatia has been negotiating with the EU for many years. In those years, but first in the mid-1990s, we systematically destroyed large agricultural combinations to privatize them for real estate sale, and today we try to consolidate what's left. And what's left is either under bank mortgages or already in some buy-in portfolio. We need a focus on creating a product with high additional value, we need more organic farming because it is more expensive and can provide more personal income for employees in agriculture. It's not for farmers to read the strategy and comment on green trade in their breaks and think about biodiversity. Our farmers, fishermen, weights need clear information and a framework that will help them to cash in their knowledge and experience, and that they can live off their work. For 30 years, we've been talking about the creation of a farm bank. It's too late for that today. Many EU countries have specialised financial institutions or institutions owned by their shareholders, and agricultural lending is considered to be a very important industry especially if some other committee services are used. Because the serious states have an industry, institutes that commercialise their ideas and get out of practice, and they also have cooperatives that significantly reduce production costs and increase the market. In two sentences, the document mentions cooperation with scientific institutions, but we do not know who and when we lack and what study programmes should be designed to make the sector more competitive. The common economic policy is one of the EU's common policies and it is horizontal, so in this sense we should have a link between universities, labour markets, the economy but there is no word in this document. Let's get to the finish line. The goals that I have already highlighted in the replica are obsolete. We need to plan them, and in many EU countries they are already being implemented. We're late because we don't even have a center for agricultural predictions. On the other hand, the centre that should be in the education system, which is mentioned in the document, does not exist, but is just planned, while in Austria AKIS – the Austrian Innovation Centre and the Knowledge Centre have been implementing their plans for several years, coordinating work, demand for products by farmers and by the market. In particular, the President of the European Commission is, as its very important programme, the Bauhaus programme of restoration and revitalisation of abandoned and collapsed parts of cities or industrial heritage from the past, among other things, the backbone of the new regency architecture is the new materials in the first row of the tree. Here's the tree that together with water represents one of the most important resources we have is not very much represented in the strategy. Agriculture appears twice in our document very shyly, while the European Commission has taken the foundation of agricultural diversity as well as Agroecology. But what's saddest is that the wood mass needed to implement, build new agricultural companies or maybe even other forms in ours, in general, in agricultural production, we came to export it as cheap raw materials, and those products or semi-products that we import from the EU don't even have, anymore people don't even have money to buy. That's the same story with the tree and the milk. We export the top product, and we import water enriched with calcium vitamins, and the question is when will we look again at these top products spilled on the road? In my opinion, in one strategy and in general, our agriculture is unreal. In fact, the strategy was supposed to answer the question of what is our priority. It is really priority, and the development that the agricultural segment should be strengthened, supported, offered a special programme for the islands in the knowledge system, installed centres of excellence at STEM colleges because they are a bridge between agriculture and block stages, and future artificial intelligence that you state in the document, and not all of those details from the table after two, three rows into the integration of strategies from page 52. Although 50% of direct funding is at least until 2027, our farmers in most cases are unable to obtain bank loans, and for the other forms of funding for which they are listed in the document, because of the collateral required, which is due to the unadjusted product of the financial institution, and almost 50% of allocation in the segment that will need some kind of own participation. The government must, for example, create a sector in the HBOR or the Post Bank that will understand needs in the sector. We can't, for example, let an oliver get a loan for five years, and we know that his fruit arrives in the eighth year and at 20%. This is a great misunderstanding of our farmers' problems. You need knowledge and us in the administration to offer solutions, because people employed in the sector know their part of the job, and we speak in nothing, that we no longer understand ourselves with all these EU terms that mean nothing to an honest man in a field, a forest, to a stop. Finally, on page 54, you are talking about a framework for monitoring the Strategy, so you say that great importance will be devoted to logistics centres, I think it is a well-intentioned advice to use state property in a positive way, to determine 4 pan-European directions and make distribution centres, to avoid manipulations with the land of business zones that we have in Croatia for 20 years that stand untapped and thus put state property in the right way, primarily to be at hand. Finally, when we see that this is a strategic document that should determine where our agriculture will go in the last 30, in, by 2030, I think that the document was written for some Austria, for a Swiss, German, that simply our agriculture is not on that segment of development, which can follow this one by you, the roof strategic document. And what I've said before, with all the re-compromising, I don't think it was the right time for this strategy, when it was already three years late, to come to my attention now, because I think people who really live on this farm and who have to worry about how to finance a spring crop in 2022 will get their hair on their heads when we start talking about a roof strategic document on a picture of beautiful desires that will make something out of our agriculture that certainly won't happen to me, and that's prosperous where extra income will come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92892	On behalf of the Fokus Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative Damir Bajs will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92893	Mr. Chairman, ma'am. Minister, we have today's Agriculture Strategy for the Republic of Croatia for the next 10 years. On behalf of the Focus Club and the Independent Representatives, I will give my opinion on the Strategy. First of all, I must stress that the Strategy has not taken the present state. It would be logical to start from the day we adopt her. In fact, 400 thousand people who left Croatia as if they didn't exist in this strategy. It's like they don't matter. And where did those people go from? Look at the map of Croatia, look at the demographic white areas, they went mostly from 5 Slavonian counties, those counties where agriculture is the basis of life. Let's look at the O.P.G.'s number, I'll tell you exactly what O.P.G. means. Family agricultural economy. In the last 10 years, we've fallen to 140,000, so 1/4 less, 50,000 families are no longer engaged in agriculture. I think a farm that in 30 years fell to a third of the livestock production, a farm that fell in many other sectors to half the production still deserves a better view. The objectives and outcomes of other strategies in other EU countries are clear. This is the first, production and self-sufficiency of the state for nutrition. And second, of course, profitability. The people dealing with agriculture must have a framework in which they will base their lives in Slavonia, my Bilogoria or anywhere else in Croatia. There's no such thing in this strategy. Let's not forget that the Republic of Croatia is self-sufficient right now, I'm going to say from significant, more important cultures, almost just corn. Is that what we want? That if the problem arises, if we need to feed our own population, we will really only eat corn bread and nothing more. We're importing everything else. Before was exporting what was a framework for agriculture, agriculture could live. This time we can look at the data for last year. 900 million euros in deficits, the more we import agricultural products than we export. We are told that the EU will be an opportunity for us and our farmers, but the biggest deficit is precisely with the EU, a billion and 200 million. It actually means that neither the state nor the farmers with the support of the state did it, I would say, take advantage. What should be the goal of this Strategy is on the framework of this clearly. The increase in production when we speak in livestock, milk production or production of military and other cultures. And of course, what's most important, which is almost nowhere to be said, which is profitability. How will the OPG live in frames when it can't actually count on either the price or the safety? And for that reason, Slavonia and the good part of Croatia that deals with agriculture have been emptied, these are the white areas. Young farmers are only named in this Strategy. I don't think that can be what we want because who's, who's gone? People who were supposed to be farming. When we talk about what needs to be done, make it a possibility, not that 1% of those dealing with agriculture get 30% of the incentive. Is that fair, is that what the future of Croatia and Croatian farmers can be founded on? It's official data, it's easy to check. We want a model that is related to the model, for example, Austria, Slovenia, not distant countries, but to us neighbouring countries in which in some cases the number of inhabitants has grown, and those parts that deal with agriculture for such an approach have actually been given the possibility of a future. Did we mention here what is also crucial to us? Let's also give those sectors that are among the best and most important. I come from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, but in Zagreb County, Koprivnica-križevnica, we make up absolutely the largest part of the total of the livestock industry of the Republic of Croatia. When you look at the objections given by associations related to this Strategy, from Baby Beef and beyond, it is shown that soon, if we continue with such a strategy, even what has to some extent worked, because cattle farming is added value, it is one of the most important parts of the total agriculture, the question is whether they will experience and whether the good part of Croatia that deals with this, this agriculture, will disappear. Where's the beekeeping? Which is why we don't mention where we are perfect, I'd say, we have perfect opportunities to deal with it, we have valuable people, we have that opportunity to make that step right now. But lastly, I'm going to point out that with all these shortcomings, we still have to figure out where to go next. We are giving ourselves goals that are not related to the value of agricultural production because the only goal here is to tie to 30 billion kunas of agricultural production in 10 years. Look at the figures, and 20 billion years ago, as the Ministry now says the value, and our goal is 30 billion, I must congratulate the minister, she has already achieved that goal because with 5% inflation over 10 years, those 20 billion will reach 30, that we do not produce a kilo of wheat more or a liter of milk than today. The figures that are related to production, they're actually almost non-existent here. And we have to do something third. Where's the food industry? The total agricultural commitment to the food industry is the key to the success of Germany, Austria and others. They often call not agriculture agriculture, but a farming-food complex because it is logical that those who process what agriculture produces, whether it is milk, whether it is corn, whether it is meat, make the total of what we want, and it is actually this complex. But what do we want? We want the food industry to buy from the domestic producer, to make this deal, I support everything else, and the link to tourism, but right now the farmer is not a link to the food industry, while in Germany, Austria, Slovenia, and everywhere else has annual contracts that guarantee him, even the multi-annual purchase of their products, not from the state, but from the food industry, and what are we ashamed of? Why don't we take some elements that will allow long-term long-term and, I would say, the economics of business? We're talking about hectares, we're talking about liters, we're talking about everything, and I'm talking about everything here today, but most importantly, if a farmer and those who deal with agriculture can't live on it, then he'll go. And that's actually the key to everything. Profitability is shown to be what it is, look at the list of blocked OPGs that are growing more and more every day at FINA, people who can't meet their obligations, and who are they? These are family people who want to live from agriculture as well as in the end, their ancestors. Therefore, let us pay attention to these elements, and the objective of the Strategy, Minister, I congratulate you, you have already achieved 30 billion kuna with the support of 7 billion euros and this inflation, in 10 years, this has already been achieved, but this shows that the goal set here cannot be a future for Croatia and Croatia's agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92894	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Martina Vlasic-Iljkic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92895	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a document of the Agriculture Strategy until 2030, which this Ministry has produced since October 2018 in collaboration with the World Bank. Today we have heard that this is a very expensive job and is worth as much as 2.5 million euros. I guess gold-printed letters. Moreover, the draft strategy is presented on 1. Meetings of the Agriculture Committee in September 2020 and you were already late, but here we go. What happened in the meantime for a whole year and a half, from now from draft to final document? The agricultural strategy is now the final year, which is 2030, but what about the starting year? Since its entry into force, the future 2020 Strategy should also be adopted at the end of 2019, whether this text of the Strategy is acceptable for the current debate, since all data relate to 2020 with analyses from 2018 and 2019. You are talking about an important roof document that this Ministry has been bringing for years, and yet is not in line with key stakeholders, which we can read from comments in public consultation. The strategy initially describes the characteristics of the Croatian agricultural sector, according to the agricultural structure of the Republic of Croatia, are dominated by low-value cultures on about 60% of the farmed area, which limits higher land productivity. Furthermore, the entire passage of the hard-core ice to Croatian farmers, to be characterized by low productivity, poor business records, poor planning and business management, insufficient insurance and poor connection with the value chain, and to be perceived by commercial credit institutions as very risky and low-paying investments in which access to capital for financing investments is limited. The lack of investment in capital, technology, research and development is further hampering productivity. Croatian farmers are mostly small and 70% farmers process less than 5 hectares of agricultural land. They are characterised by fragmented production aimed at low-value products and are largely involved in short value chains. It produces unequal quality and higher operating costs further weakens the negotiating position, and in order to strengthen them in relation to the processing industry, which is very concentrated, it is necessary to increase the level of association of agricultural producers. We are all wondering for a reason who is responsible for the situation in Croatian agriculture, an unfortunate farmer from a fraction in a strategy or ministry that has been dealing with planning and analysis for years, agencies that conduct online surveys away from reality and reality. How many of those farmers who have given up their questions and knocking on the door of advisory agencies are looking for advice also speaks a demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia and the emigration of young people who leave their farms and go to work abroad. In particular, this picture is visible in Slavonia and Baranja, as well as in Banovina. Is there any example of preserved production? The legacy of this ministry will be destroyed by sugars, destroyed dairy, livestock, suspicious examples of the lease and sale of agricultural land, but with documents printed in gold letters of the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. like a set of unrealistic desires. Who will deal with agriculture if generation renewal is not a developmental need or priority of this strategy? The strategy sets out 4 strategic objectives, and 15 development needs to be addressed through 6 areas of intervention. If the well-detected development needs of intervention do not offer concrete solutions, they are mostly general solutions that should be further prescribed by the following documents. Of the 15 development needs none refers to generation renewal. Young farmers are listed through different areas of intervention and implementation mechanisms, but are not a priority. We believe that young and small farmers should be given greater importance in this strategic document. The whole strategy highlights the primary agricultural sector while food production is only partially and unclearly covered. In this way, the food industry remains deprived of clear strategic objectives and solutions related to future development. There is nothing in the strategy on social conditionality to be used in granting support. It includes respect for principles, certain principles such as labour rights, social and economic rights. The implementation mechanisms related to social inclusion and equal opportunities, gender equality, vulnerable groups are not listed, nor do they point out that rural areas are particularly vulnerable due to their limitations in access to numerous services, hospitals, transport, and weak or non-existent internet access. The digital gap between urban and rural areas has a strong impact on education and business, not a word of it. There's also no word on the concept of smart villages. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Women of the OPG bearers are younger age are better educated and this certainly represents a positive trend that should continue in the future. There is also a lack of emphasis on strengthening local initiatives, e.g. through further development of local action groups and the development of local development strategies. We believe that the primary further development is in the context of decentralisation and strengthening of all stakeholders in rural areas. A little unreal mention is given of the advantage of modern and well-developed road infrastructure, and in the report we discussed here in HS on the existence and space in the Republic of Croatia is about a great inequality and the development of road networks and the fact that over the past 20 years. was an emphasis on highway development. Unfortunately, the two Slavonian counties of Virovitica-Podravska and Požega-Slavon County are counties that have not one kilometer of fast road or highway. The state of these counties has also been shown by indicators that put the two counties to the start of development in the Republic of Croatia. The impression is that the overall strategy is inapplicable to Croatian circumstances because unfortunately because of the poor conduct of agricultural policy, and not because of Croatian farmers, we are far behind European countries. For example, developed European countries do not bother with evicted villages and abandoned economies. This strategy has no solution for abandoned houses and farms in rural areas. The Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the JLS and regional self-government, should develop national measures aimed at stopping and leaving villages and launching their recovery process, as well as revitalising abandoned houses and economies. What do you say after the whole analysis? The financial resources used to prepare this strategy through the World Bank project did not bear fruit through the agricultural dictionary. The most important priorities are missing, such as generation renewal, social conditionality, gender equality, and empowerment of women, significant provisions relating to food safety, fisheries, forestry, strengthening of local communities and many others. The needs and priorities of agricultural development are not clearly set up by 2030, and implementation mechanisms are not sufficiently clear. This is a clear indication that the Ministry of Agriculture has not been able to move from great planning to realization. The minister of all these many plans that we have witnessed in recent years and the waste of our money and European money has so far not helped Croatian agriculture. We've been where we are for years. If agriculture is as important to you as you've been saying for years, isn't it time for the care of the Croatian village to feel both young and small and medium-sized farmers and not just large and similar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92896	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92897	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear Minister, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, so when we talk about the strategy for the development of rural space net before the start of this debate, I was approached by an OPG, a young man with a degree in Agronomic College of Like who told me there was no electricity. He applied for his OPG electrical consent and received a letter from HEP asking him for a connection no more than a million and 380 thousand kuna. So before the war there was electricity, but today he has no electricity and to continue to live in the area at all and work of course, he would have to pay HEP a million and 380 thousand kuna. So it is the real life strategy for the development of Croatian rural space. And now we're going back to this written strategy. So this strategy is written on 140 pages, it is too extensive a list of good wishes with vaguely defined tasks and objectives, which on average I will read incomprehensible and vague. The strategy states that the Republic of Croatia is a net importer of agricultural food products with a trade deficit of EUR 873.6 million in 2020. It is unclear how there is such a deficit if it is known that agricultural support is reported annually by the Ministry of Finance on State aid in the agriculture sector for 2020. A year allocated to 7 whole 679.9 million kuna. I remind the money for this payment is refunded from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. The proposal for a strategy is not enough to recognise the importance of the financial instruments that Croatian agriculture needs for sustainability and improvement of agricultural production, as well as an increase in its scope. I would like to remind you that the report of the European Court of Auditors for Croatia for 2020 shows data on the use of ESI funds for the period 2014 to 2020, where Croatia is in the last place, which is worse than Italy alone. Croatia has therefore used only 45% of the resources available by the end of 2020. All who follow this area are long-standing denials by the ruling weak withdrawal of funds from the rural development programme. This report confirms that the accredited bodies did not agree the measures well, were not high-quality support to potential applicants or helped the Croatian village strengthen using European money. Although she had enough time, Croatia was actually unprepared and unprepared to join a full EU membership that reflected in the non-exploitation and slow withdrawal of the planned funds. There is no quantitative and qualitative preparation and education of human resources, but it is also followed by slow and inadequate institutional adaptation to emerging needs with the aim of making maximum use of financial opportunities. The relevant ones denied all the grudges that farmers had given them, but other interested ones also suggested and reported. Contact between potential applicants, I am talking about small- and medium-sized economies and crafts and those who are implementing the rural development programme almost do not exist. All well-intentioned suggestions are ignored. The same is happening with the proposal for a strategic plan for the next period. We've neither revised the previous program, nor detected the shortcomings, and we've tried to analyze where and what we've done wrong, and now we're bringing in a new one where we don't ask farmers ourselves again. I will single out only some of the problems that farmers who want to run for EU funds money. Farmers are faced with a complicated procedure of applying for tenders and unnecessary administrative requirements, excessive amendments to the rules and the criteria for the allocation of funds, the absence or frequent changes to tendering plans and the very long procedures from the submission of applications to the decision-making of allocations. Those who have profited are actually larger business entities, and therefore the family holding or agricultural crafts are smaller or too small for certain measures or too old or too old. For them, there is no financial support from the HBOR or the HAMAG, and most often they themselves have to ensure pre-financing or project financing and only then wait for the return of the money. Unfortunately, farmers do not have enough support and needed assistance to meet quality requirements for applying to competitions and to improve their economies. They are often left to the advisory services of individuals and companies who are very little or nothing aware of the measures available to farmers. The consultants mainly learned how to technically meet the conditions of competition, and they do not have the necessary knowledge relating to the subject matter and investment objectives that would lead to higher productivity and production, and hence the income of farmers. A good part of the money isn't an acceptable cost and farmers can't refund it. From the rural development programme measures, employees of the Ministry of Agriculture co-finance their salaries, which is completely wrong. The solution would be a model by which basic salary should be provided and wage increases would be linked to the percentage of EU funds withdrawn at a half-yearly level. Then the employees would be further motivated. Everything else is nonsense and discrimination because people working on EU programmes are more paid than those working on national sources and jobs. If we are wondering what to do to improve the percentage of money withdrawn in the next period and what challenges are facing Croatia about this, then we must primarily recapture what has been done so far in order to figure out what we did wrong. The new programme should certainly be conceived in cooperation with the producers themselves, the measures should monitor their needs and their production, and not vice versa, and that is to artificially monitor the wishes of the Ministry and the paying agency in agriculture. The advisory service should be available to farmers. Information should be easily made available to farmers. An additional problem creates no reference prices. Farmers never know if they will be able to recover all the funds they have invested, thereby increasing their business risk. For example, Slovenia has a valid catalogue of eligible costs with maximum recognised amounts that facilitate farmers' financial plan. In addition, the transparency of the use of European funds also raises a large number of procedures conducted by national institutions such as DORH or PNUSKOK, with particular interest in the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The question arises as to why it is more effective than domestic institutions such as ARPA, which is a control body and which, before the European Prosecutor, should have detected the benefits and corruption and reacted in time. From all the above, it is concluded that our ministry, or the Payments Agency, chooses to provide European funds, while a small agricultural producer whose survival is crucial, but also the competitiveness with the European farmer, can often not come to that money. Croatia must work seriously for the next period to strengthen human and institutional potential, thus enabling faster and better-quality use of allocated financial resources. The strategic plan must provide for more significant means of transfer of knowledge and information, and allow private advisory services with clear and defined criteria for participation in the process. Croatian agriculture requires strong access and consensus from all actors on the political scene. There must be an agreement there because it is a strategic national interest. The strategy provides for the doubling of agricultural production by 2030, which is very ambitious but feasible in just one case, which is that politics has an impact when Parliament needs to adopt the strategy unanimously, and everything else, so management and reflection, and even the development of a strategy must be entrusted with the profession. Fiscal policy or tax policy should be implemented by the EU rules on the tax discharge of farmers. Tax discharge should cover the exemption of direct payments... the direction of rural development from the taxation of income tax and profit tax. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The value added tax should be further reduced to the inputs in agriculture and agricultural products in order to make them available to consumers, however, there is neither a letter within the strategy itself nor a letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92898	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92899	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Ministers, associates and colleagues and colleagues. So, you don't have to be very psychic to know what this is going to say about the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. We also said that at our press conference about 20 days ago. So, we have the most expensive harvest, pardon, seed in the history of Croatian agriculture. As the gas price increases so far, let's just go through some data, there has been a huge increase in the price of mineral fertilisers that are already above 3 times higher today's prices compared to the same period last year. In addition to the increase in fertiliser prices, there is currently an increase in the prices of all other investments in sowing. According to the above, this year's seed is becoming the most expensive we have said in the history of Croatian agriculture. The amount of investments in sowing will be negatively reflected in all sectors of agriculture, mostly in warfare because it is the same as the most representative form of agricultural production in Croatia, but unfortunately also in all others, such as in livestock farming, because the amount of funds invested is inevitable and the increase in livestock prices. By increasing the price of livestock, and in December it will go up more than 30%, the livestock sector, and especially dairy cattle, will experience another one in a series of blows to their survival and market survival. One of the scenarios is also a reduction in the production of food products, which will result in a direct impact on and such a disrupted self-sufficiency of our agriculture due to the likely reduced fertilisation because for the full probably our farmers will not have money by leading to savings or inability to finance production in such a price increase. It is also expected to produce reduced quality, which is likely to result in an increase in the prices of bread and bakery products. This will bring the crisis into agriculture directly to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and as long as the price rise of the consumer basket does not follow the same increase in monthly incomes, our citizens will eat sarma, except that many will eat cabbage and only rare meat. On behalf of the Homeland Movement on the Committee on Agriculture 20 days ago, we adopted and publicly proposed a package of measures that should help our farmers. Here, I'll introduce it to you at four basic points. These are the compensations of the price difference of fuel and other re-comparation, interest-free loans, additional VAT reduction to re-promaterials and energy and the regulation of blue diesel prices. So, as far as the first point of our proposals is concerned, listen to the comparison of the amazing increase in the price of mineral fertilisers. The price of wheat premium quality in harvest last year was kuna and 40 limes per kilogram, today the average price of wheat according to the market information system in agriculture 2 kuna and 3 limes, so it is an increase of 45%, we would say excellent, yes, but the prices of fertilisers increased by 300 to 350% at the same time. Therefore, it was necessary to establish the form of a charge in the procurement of fertilisers, which would initially set a fixed price for the types of fertiliser, and the price difference would be covered from the state budget. I remind the price difference would be covered from the state budget. I remind you of one more dollar for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is possible to apply the same principle in the procurement of other repromaries whose price rise has already been established and which will, unfortunately, continue for the next period. The part of the solution that some of the representatives here talked about is the association of producers which, of course, could be achieved and more used by sellers, but in this case, producers should be extra administratively relieved. If possible, of course, it is necessary to affect the sellers themselves through the reduction of their sales margins, their own fees, and in some ways damage the sellers by tax charges or by reducing the number of charges to the State. The benefits of this proposed measure are certainly to reduce the amount of input farmers must make, achieve greater profits and the possibility of further investment in the development of the economy. Greater investment in production will ultimately lead to higher and more quality contributions, which prevents possible problems in the food industry. In fact, an increase in the price of flour may occur if there are disturbances in the market in the supply of flour or higher quantities of low quality flour. The second point we've proposed is interest-free loans. Acceptable prices of fertilisers and repromaterials, therefore reductions compared to current prices are a prerequisite for producers for profitable production. It is therefore necessary to provide for unambiguous loans in the agricultural sector for the purpose of obtaining the repromation necessary for sowing and for the care of crops. So, for seeds, for fertilisers and for protective products. Let's suggest these loans go through HABOR or HAMAG BICRO. It is very important to provide farmers with a sufficient period of return of funds on them with the appropriate time limit and number of periodical payments. Secured funds for the smooth operation of crops and the necessary savings or protection of crops will allow for further agricultural production on our nuts. The third point, which we are particularly proud of, is the additional reduction of VAT to re-promaterials and energy. In fact, we are very proud to see our prime minister yesterday who suggested this, so here I thank him on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Club for listening to the opposition for at least a moment, and for presenting the measures as his own on the reduction of VAT on re-promaterials and energy in agriculture we will consider it only a small and easy-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-violence. The fourth point is to regulate the price of blue diesel. Price regulation is necessary for the production of our peasants. With a reduction in excise duties and a total price of blue diesel, there is clear and lower entry costs, and this results in a higher profit for agricultural producers. Compared to the price of blue diesel over the past 6 months, there has been an increase of 1.30 kuna per litre, the current price of 6.5 kuna is unfortunately frozen but the announced increase goes more than 7 kuna per litre. The solution offered by the government by freezing us is unfortunately only a cosmetic measure and an adornment of the current situation, since it is shortly after the freezing expires that the period of the most intense works in the Croatian fields begins. I point out here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia offers a settlement in the form of a fee of only 450 kuna for the first 10 and 250 kuna for the remaining 10 hectares, so up to a quantity of 20 hectares. To simplify, our farmer will get money for 50 kilos per hectare for the first 10 acres, for 30 kg of fertiliser per hectare for the next 10 hectares. In order to give you these numbers in the perspective of the wheat in its production requires more than 800 kg of fertiliser per hectare at the cost of, of course, the additional cost of seed goods, protection products and the rent of agricultural land, which our farmer will pay at never higher prices this year. The measures to help agriculture presented yesterday will, of course, help our farmers, but I'm afraid they are of fire nature. The lack of a decisive, generous and timely long-term redaction, a reaction from the government of the Republic of Croatia that will cover all sectors of agriculture in the course of wildling prices, says that the government is still not ready to respond to the challenges and all to the harm of Croatian peasants. Presented measures of the Homeland Movement would allow Croatia's agricultural producer to continue their investments more peacefully, to continue seeding on Croatian oracles, and thus to produce quality food that will feed our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92900	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92901	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Development Strategy, I must say that I have observed them in my life and the most frequently used function, i.e. Two functions are copy pa paste. That's what I'm saying about this one because it's not made in real positions, and I understand why that is. The strategy must exist, it must be wide enough to put anything in it. that she can be called at any time and any planning of something. But to start with, says the development vision in collaboration with representatives of the agricultural sector in Croatia, a common vision has been set that will increase the amount of high-quality food at competitive prices, increase the resilience of agriculture, agricultural production to climate change with sustainable management of natural resources, and contribute to improving the quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. It's super-written. And how do we do that? So we didn't go into this strategy I don't see anyone saying production is so much weight, tons of something, so many liters of something, so many pieces of something, it's our production today, and we're starting to develop agriculture today, and so we made a strategy. That's not it. We're talking about billions that are going to double very quickly through inflation, and we're going to say, here's what we've done. Total expenditure on research and development in the Republic of Croatia is low. Between 2008 and 2017, an average of 0.81% of GDP was allocated to the business sector, with 0.41% in comparison with the EU 2%. So the Union average is 2%, and we're 0.40 in agriculture, in agriculture science, so how are we going to make this development increase in production, strengthen the sector, but not involve science. Where the link between scientific institutions and agricultural producers does not work at all. We have science, we have agricultural producers, but we lack a bond between. No one's passing that science on to the agricultural producers. We're talking about the concept of conservation soil treatment. I ask you how many people here know what it is and how it's done? It's very simple, but you need to explain to people when, how and what. The strategy says it supports the ambition of the European Green Plan to transform the economic economy, to economies without greenhouse gas emissions in such a way as to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions coming from the agricultural sector. How much is the CO2 print of agricultural cultures in Croatia, the main agricultural cultures? No one knows. What are we going to plan to cut back on? To reduce cattle, so the cattle was gone, we cut it down, we destroyed it. In my address, I do not address the minister because she is not the only one to blame for the situation in the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. It's all the ministers and all the governments that have dealt with policy problems, agriculture so far, they're all ours and yours and mine, everyone. But let's go over it once and for all, and realize that agriculture is a dry need for us to find a consensus to finally move towards being self-sufficient and to produce enough food for ourselves. The strategy says shows opportunities, strategic goals, needs and targeted interventions for the transformation of the agricultural food sector in Croatia. Food sector, Podravka, where the raw materials for what Podravka does, from imports. Private companies that process agricultural products especially the meat industry. It's from the imports again. How will we affect them especially if they are privatised and have their own owners that the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot influence. How will it affect them? Not at all. So they do what they think is best for them. It says in the agricultural structure of the Republic of Croatia, low-value cultures are dominated by around 60% of the farmy surfaces are produced by grains which limit higher land productivity. So why are they made? Well, because there's only a regulated market for cereal, the only reason. They are bought by Italians, Austrians, Slovenians and paid in time and paid with good prices, so that's why. I'd make watermelons and peppers if it was worth it and I'm making it, but I'm just making losses on it because I don't have anyone to sell it to, I have to throw half. According to the Republic of Croatia, the net importer of agricultural food products is although after EU accession the cumulative work of exports of agricultural food products is recorded. Which one? Well, it's those warlords. So we didn't increase the export of something else but these war products that we say are lower values they're maintaining our current agriculture. It says, and the largest deficit is achieved by the exchange of meat, dairy products, eggs, honey, processed food for animals, fruits, nuts, drinks and alcohol. So why do we have the biggest deficit here? Well, because all our trade chains are foreign owners. That's why we have a deficit. We, they sell their goods in our chains, not our goods. And our biggest shopping mall, Konzum, has been handed over to strangers, and he is no longer ours, so no one will sell our goods in that way. It says the biggest trade deficit is achieved in the exchange of agricultural food products with EU countries. That confirms it because all the centres are from the EU. It says, meaning the efficiency discussed in this strategy, farmers who have support from the rural development programme focus on investments say, thus improving their business technologies and improving their economic performance. Of course, these are the bigger ones who receive support despite being large, who succeed because of their way of doing business and the pressure method to extract money from European funds and, of course, that they are more competitive than small farmers because unfortunately small farmers cannot be competitive because they do not fit in with funds. We are talking today about the growth of the young farmers of their OPG. So we have, why do we have? Because I can't make money out of EU funds because I don't fit in anywhere, even though I'm working 27 acres of the country and what I do is, I transfer 5 acres to my son, transfer to his son, and then as a young farmer, he's going to get 15,000 euros for being a young farmer and having his own O.P.G., it doesn't matter how much he produces. So in this strategy there is also a saying, in development needs to increase the fairness of granting income support. Well, someone has been confused here, to make a joke like that, so he wrote that there is a need to increase justice, and this way it is recognised that the unfair distribution of EU funds is. She's unfair. We're not helping the kid, we're not helping, I'm not talking about the little ones who produce for themselves, I'm talking about those who produce for the market, I'm talking about the team. But people either don't hear it or don't want to hear it. Unfortunately, it's too little time, I could talk here for two hours about this because I speak with emotion because I'm also a peasant and I'm not ashamed to say I'm a peasant, it's a pride to me because that's how my teachers taught me about agronomy. Solutions always exist, mostly they are very simple only there should be a political will for them to be implemented. We in opposition cannot implement them because we do not have a majority, you from the ruling structures, from the ruling coalition you have 77 hands and you are responsible for why the wrong laws are being passed and why some things are not good is not responsible for the minister, you are responsible because you do not have the courage to oppose what destroys our agricultural policy and agricultural economies. Here are two solutions from the minister, free the OPGs that are not in the VAT system, free them from VAT on re-promaterials, machinery and equipment, free them from being equal to those in VAT And I'm sorry... [[Intruder: Thank you]] agricultural products to be competitive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92902	Thank you, thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92903	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will speak as last in the name of clubs and then when you speak as last in the name of clubs you have two things. One thing is that everyone has already said everything, and then you have to repeat it, and the other thing that you might actually have the opportunity to repeat and emphasize the most important things that were, especially when they said something that you could agree with as well. So, what we're discussing now and we're going to discuss most of this day, it's the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. It, in terms of form, has everything the strategy needs, but what we would like to have, if there were much stronger input data and that there from page 54, and beyond, and that's that part of the framework and for monitoring and evaluating the strategy, let's be clearer and consistent. The way I can characterize this strategy is at your level, otherwise the Americans use it, and I'll use it this time, says it's much better to be young and rich than old and poor. That's the conclusion of the strategy, and you can't say that at the level of it, so I'm using what someone else uses, we can't all agree in principle. The key question is, so I'm going to start with what's a vision of development and I'm going to quote it. It is said that the vision of development is to produce a higher quantity of high-quality food at competitive prices, increase the resilience of agricultural production to climate change with cooperative management of natural resources, contribute to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. What can we add or subtract? Nothing. Everything's actually okay. Is that what we all want together, no matter what side of this assembly we're sitting on? We will. Have we detected that we have a problem so far? We do. And what we should detect is how to get out of this problem and there's no matter what ambition and idea and everything else you get into the mandate, there's not a single minister and minister a magic wand that will suddenly solve everything with a magic wand, but if you can't, that's always the problem, you go solve everything, and then you don't solve anything, so let's solve one part. We need to know what's real and possible to solve up to, so if the strategy is by 2030, I won't discuss it in the context of who did it, how much it costs, what it has or doesn't have, it's already, you've probably heard it already several times. I really want to discuss this strategy the way in which we enter, what our current situation is and what we want. The key question, what we want in Croatia, is whether we want to, because this crown that is already there is 2nd. And we live with her, and with her, and with her, and with her, and in any way, she's shown us all the faults we have, all of which, she's shown us not Europe and the world, but she's also shown us the faults we have and the problem we have. We want to be self-sufficient, but we won't be and we can't be and we can want it, I can wish I didn't know anything, but I have to be realistic in those frameworks where it's realistically possible. We said it was low productivity and that 70% is processed at less than 5 hectares. Why is our productivity low? What are we going to do to keep that productivity from happening to us? Do we want to have production on larger surfaces or do we want to have OPGs and households no matter what we call them? So there's a series of things and a series of wishes, one thing to want, and the other is reality, and then when we come to reality, I always find interesting frameworks for monitoring and evaluating the strategy. That's what's interesting what we're supposed to be, and that's something that's supposed to be such a sacred letter to anyone, so the management footage of one ministry and a word, by 2030, are our goals, you and you, we want it, that and that, the hodogram is like that, that kind of thing, and then you put that clutch done. He says we want to plan an increase in work by 60%. Okay, we want to, and how are we gonna do that? It will contribute to the growth of livestock production, as well as the increase of land by permanent plantations and greenhouses. So that's where I read livestock, and about livestock I really always, always kind of try and I don't want to be a parliamentary representative you know that general practice that runs out of there and can talk about everything. I listen very carefully to my colleagues and colleagues who are in deep trouble. I'm already listening and looking at the problem of livestock production. How are we going to increase the increase in livestock production? What tools? What methodology? In what way? And says an increase in the surfaces under the plantations and under the greenhouses. And then he says that the higher productivity will contribute to the larger surface under irrigation. Fine! Great! Since '95. in a series of strategies that I have had the opportunity to see from the point of view of water use, the use of agricultural, the use of forest surfaces, these are those strategies, so in my life I have had opportunities to work on programmes and strategies related to spatial planning. And I always have to admit about the topic of agriculture, the use of agricultural surfaces, the use of forest surfaces, the topic of irrigation I always look at in the context of what my tool is. So the tool that I have dealt with and the way we want to plan and use it in the future is mutually intertwined because there are countries that have had those sectoral strategies where each sector works for itself when I talk about spatial planning, and we have always decided to look at all sectoral strategies and then we see it through a spatial plan and this should be read in the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. So, the topic of irrigation is a topic that has no strategy related to water that does not talk about the subject of irrigation, from the unfortunate channel of the Danube – Sava and beyond. There is not a single government in the last four, five governments that is one of their own themes, what they will do in the mandate is the topic of irrigation. Where exactly did we come from? What exactly are we gonna do? What I'm trying to tell you is paper suffers a lot of things. On paper, so we have a strategy, we're going to bring a strategy, after a few years someone's going to say let's see that. But what the strategy needs to see, you need to see what we want. I, from this strategy in the end, do not read what kind of Croatia related to agriculture, what kind of Croatia do we want? Are we going to develop one, two or three, and we're not going to be able to develop one or the other, the third. But there's something about it that we have to decide on. No one comes for this pay phone or rarely anyone who doesn't talk, now it's absolutely a hit topic. For a time, the hit topic was sustainable development, so we all talked about sustainable development. Now we've forgotten sustainable development, now we're talking about green developments, green plans, climate change, the fight against climate change, the way we're going to fight it. Let's see what's real, let's see how we do it. Let's see what we want with that? This strategy is about pointing to the problems we have in agriculture. What I would really like to see from this strategy, and unfortunately I don't see, which is yes, especially this chapter VIII. – Frameworks for monitoring and evaluation are not strategies, but what it says about what kind of country we see in terms of agriculture. What are we seeing? Do we see the mouse-mouse again so let's go a little green, so we're gonna have a little bit of co-operation, so we're gonna have a little farm housekeeping, so we're gonna deal with this a little bit, and then we're gonna do this a little bit. Well, maybe that's the way, but let's talk about it then, say it and detect it. So this period by 2030, 2030, is colleagues and colleagues tomorrow. She's not out there. We're talking about 2022 in terms of strategy and its elements, it's tomorrow. What I really want to say is I'll say it again. A strategic document from this shows a revision of the development of a sector related to a particular problem and a particular policy. Unfortunately, from this strategy, we don't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92904	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a little break for technical reasons, and then we'll see each other again in 15.10 minutes. [[It's 3:04 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.14 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, our break time is up, so we will now move to individual debates and the first one will speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92906	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A serious theme of agriculture, at least for us Slavons and Baranjas, but when we listen here are colleagues from the IDS and for them it is important for all of us in Dalmatia, but somehow this empty assembly does not give me the confidence that we ourselves are seriously accessing this problem. We all know that the main pains and characteristics of our agricultural production are low productivity and this is a lack of self-sufficiency for other EU members, and this kind of transformation process started in the '90s by entering the transition, positioning the OPGs as farmers and then some structural changes were intensified, there were some other circumstances, mainly war destruction, market breakdown, distribution channel breakdown, and ultimately our pain of conversion and privatisation. And the EU has welcomed our farmers unprepared, somehow this opening of the market has caused this final blow to our agriculture, unfortunately the recovery is out of sight. Significant funds are being withdrawn, significant funds are being invested, but we are still not self-sufficient, and when you talk to people who deal with agriculture, the problem is everywhere. The warlords have problems, and the cattlemen don't even talk. The Minister also said we are talking about agricultural production now, but talking about agricultural production without the processing industry is simply impossible. You can't separate each other. The important verticals of this and the important link in this vertical, which I am personally as someone from Slavonia, are basically those small and medium-sized economic operators who, in 5 Slavonian counties, were as many as 200 in cities that have about 10,000 inhabitants. Because when you look at both fruits and vegetables a relatively small part is sold in this consumable form, with, from the field, from the tree, most of it goes into some kind of processing, and it was this small part of it, these companies were the bearer of that development, but also the creation of jobs in these smaller places by Slavonia, Orahovica, Slatina, Nashica, Valpovo. It's just my county and neighboring. There's been a number of these facilities, and they're gone. And I'm only going to look back at that part of connecting these OPGs because we know that both land surface depletion and a large number of OPGs that process small surfaces is also a characteristic of our agricultural production. If this connection does not occur, and our OPGs are not prone to this because of some still negative legacy of cooperatives that has a negative context in us, it will be if there is no production organisations, it will be one extremely limiting factor in the development, in the withdrawal of funds, in the market performance, and I think that there must be far stronger measures and stronger steps to motivate the meaning of the OPGs to come together and perform jointly on the market, because it is the only way they can have greater negotiating power and towards these trade chains where the rounding process has gone in one far-off direction and then the Ministry of Agriculture, but the local regional administration must, through EU funds, contribute to the acceleration of these processes, and then we can also talk about this higher added value, the higher cost of final products, the combination of rural tourism, which we are going to achieve in this particular field of agriculture, which we are going to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92907	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92908	Thank you, dear Vice President. The colleagues of Vucilović, therefore, from today's debate, could be heard that 1% of business entities, agricultural entities benefit almost 40% of the total paid support in agriculture, and we also know that 5% of the entities benefit us more than half of the total farm land, so we constantly generate large and support large systems, and Europe is suggesting a solution, offering us a solution to this problem in the form of so-called. the remuneration or limitation of the maximum amount of aid paid per entity. However, representatives of our Ministry of Agriculture hold that we should maintain an individual approach on this matter and do not actually accept that suggestion. What's your opinion on that and attitude, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92909	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92910	Thank you very much for asking, fellow Wolfie. Well, that's our pain, so you can't deal with agriculture if you don't have land to eat. Here and now we're going to have a second reading of the Agricultural Land Act, we see that a number of JLS have already opened tenders so that they don't come to them on the side, which is a new law. But what you've put forward is defeating numbers, and I'm not for some kind of solutions that will be implemented by force, but the fact is that these numerous OPGs, and there are over 150,000 of them, we still have to make it possible to withdraw more resources and we need to think a little more about them in every strategy, but also about any legal proposal that applies, which reflects them to make them more competitive and so that we can have a much better position on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92911	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92912	Dear colleague Vucimilovic, the strategy briefly describes the administrative discharge of farmers. The red tape imposed on them makes their work difficult and increases the cost of production. Why do you think there are no concrete proposals and solutions to this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92913	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92914	Thank you very much. My colleagues Ban Vlahek, we've gone too far with the administration in all segments. It's not agriculture, unfortunately, an exception, when you look at our health care and our nurses, we've turned them into administrative workers, and every relief I think they'll benefit. There would certainly be some kind of digitisation and use of IT tools, but we need to be aware of who our farmers are, how much they have these knowledge, how many they have at all, and how old they are. It's mostly an old population that has possibly high school and imposing any new administrative obligations, and we all know when they apply to something that it's a bunch of paper is, there, I think that the advisory agricultural service must play a much more significant role and as far as I see here on the ground they're quite active and very helpful farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92915	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92916	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs Vucilović, here I have taken out an E4 intervention from this beautiful picturebook, the introduction of a skills development program. I quote, the Agriculture Strategy announces the introduction of new modules for education and training of workers in rural areas. I'll stop, I won't quote until the end. Yesterday we discussed vocational education here, and we saw, we all agreed in the debate that we had some lack of students, somewhere extra, obviously such occupations seem not attractive, unfortunately not attractive. Do you think this introduction of a skills development program will even look like and what effects might it have in the first place? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92917	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92918	Thank you, dear fellow Dretar. As long as the students who are agricultural engineers work in Pevex as merchants, and I know a few of them, we don't have anything to talk about these measures and the question is how much it will help our farmers to spread knowledge and adopt new knowledge, that's a fact, but we do have a pretty big collage between what we need, who we're dealing with agriculture at all, and ultimately what those who finish agricultural colleges and who are good at. Unfortunately, there are often no jobs for them and they end up like I said somewhere where they need some other knowledge and all of their schooling is for nothing. So I don't know how much this program's gonna help, but it's good to try forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92919	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92920	Dear counterpart Vucimilovic, the Croatian farmer has a significantly higher percentage of the total income from direct payments from farmers at EU level, but remains uncompetitive. One reason lies is that we don't have good infrastructure, primarily logistics centers, we don't have enough coolers. For example, in Vukovar-Srijem County, for example, we currently have one and that's a pretty old-fashioned coolant, so is that one of the main reasons that you think can be done about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92921	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92922	Thank you very much, fellow colleagues. Well, here's what I've been thinking about is that we can't talk about agriculture if we don't talk about it together and think about it together and think about the processing industry because one without another just doesn't work. Only 1/5 of produced fruit and vegetables are sold directly, all going into some kind of or thermal process or freezing or so on not counting. That we miss those capacities that you're talking about not only warehouses but also for processing it's a fact and it's all going slow together. I will list to you the Regional Distribution Centre in Osijek which is not yet finished, we cannot rely only on EU funds, these are very complicated procedures and of course these property legal relations that hold back almost every investment in Croatia where all of this is unsettled and you end up having situations where the city and the county don't agree much, so this land swap takes months and years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92923	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92924	Good afternoon. You asked one question to the minister, which I will ask her once more, although a lot of MPs and MPs asked that question, if the minister shows up because she is currently not at this debate, although she said it was important that we discuss this strategy here, and that she made it possible for us, and that was the question of how we will become self-sufficient in those categories of food in which we produce very little means food such as meat, milk, eggs, fruits, vegetables where our export deficit is the largest, so even 46% is a deficit, which means culture. What she replied to you about was the date when the support was actually announced, indicating that it was obvious that some had not yet died from these producers, but you did not ask her that. You asked her how we'd become self-sufficient by 2030. And the only thing we can take for an answer is slowly and not overnight, what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92925	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92926	Dear fellow Peovic, thank you for that question. It's the cancer of our agricultural production's wounds. So we're producing more and more wheat and corn that we then export, and we're importing pasta and frozen baker's products that are baked in trade chains, foreign, foreign-owned, we eat badly and expensively, and it's my opinion that I live in a region where I'm close to numerous OPGs and I can buy healthy foods which, of course, in large cities is very difficult for our citizens. Food is a strategic product as well as energy. We're having an energy crisis right now. The food can be here any minute. Any kind of monster that can affect a whole other part of the world can be reflected in us because we depend on the price of tomatoes in Spain, the price of garlic in China, etc. That I don't count now, and we thank God for a beautiful country that could feed Not just these, but far more inhabitants than we are. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92927	Thank you. Honorable representative Barbara Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92928	Dear MPs do not have to be scientists, so let us see many abandoned houses, abandoned agricultural holdings especially in the rural area, and unfortunately in the strategy itself, nothing or little is written about it. What could be a solution for the ministry, together with local self-government and county units, to take measures that would lead to such households, to bring such houses to life, revitalise them. So what do you think is supposed to be in the strategy written down and how do you see that part of the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92929	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92930	Thank you very much for asking my colleague Antoliæ Vupra. It's a cancer wound, an area where I come from. So these five Slavonic counties plus Sisak-Moslavina, but it's not even Bjelovar-Bilogorska away from it. Our rural space is empty and there is this function of agriculture that actually keeps people in the area. It's mostly the village old population now, the young leave. We build cycling trails and kindergartens in villages where people are gone, there are no children, and these are growing and bigger problems. We use European funds. Europe gives us the resources for what it thinks we need, not for what we really need. Such programs have to start working because it becomes a security issue. Well, these are border areas that are completely empty and I expect, and here's the Secretary of State from the Central Bureau of Demography that we're about to have a new demographic strategy, so we're going to cross it with this farm, see where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92931	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92932	Thank you very much. We are all calling for agriculture and I believe that the only demographic measure in undeveloped areas is one of the most significant investments in agriculture mainly in the knowledge of agriculture. When I became mayor, my first step was to talk to the university to be a agricultural university in Sinj, part for agriculture in Sinj. And we've already taken those steps, we have an agreement. We have secured an object that we will now run along with the Dean and the Rector of the University. What's the big deal? It is important when people from my Dalmatia, from Dalmatia, burn as well as Slavonia have the possibility of education in this area. What's happening to us? Our children go to study agriculture in other cities of the Republic of Croatia and do not return. Therefore, very little has Croatia invested in the knowledge of agriculture. That's why we're here. What do you say the level of knowledge and experience relating to farmers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92933	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92934	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. I've been following your work and I appreciate what you've done. I think that's a good way to go. I hope you have plenty of students. A long time ago, I was doing a survey among high school graduates. Believe me, there wasn't much interest in further education and the lack of that interest as well as in the professional professions that happened yesterday, means in the plenary session as well as in agriculture and further education in agriculture, which is not good, because the current situation tells us that we have an old population that doesn't have enough education in these particular skills. A lot of work is done by that, by the experience methods and the way it has been done, and agriculture is also progressing and new technologies are very present, which is what the vast majority of our farmers currently cannot actually track.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92935	Thank you very much. She will now speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92936	Thank you. I don't know what the point of this debate is if the Minister isn't present, I have to admit. Well, let's get it straight. "We should turn to domestic production of medicines, medical equipment and food," I quote. That sentence was said by no less than Minister Maric at the time of the root virus, meaning pandemic. Since then, he's obviously forgotten a lot, but when I heard from his mouth, I have to admit that I felt some kind of positive vibration thinking that things had changed overnight. Unfortunately, none of that. I also wanted to ask the minister the question that many have asked here and that is the question that she really should answer, and she has not answered it once, and that is how this strategy will ensure that by 2030 we become self-sufficient in those categories of food, the production of food in which we are far from it and we import it. That's what I'm going to warn food and these are products with higher added value. We produce and self-sufficient only in war cultures that have lower added value, and that is why I said and warned the minister that HDZ is constantly talking about increasing exports, reducing imports. She said that I didn't exactly brag about it, I boasted about the positive trends, but HDZ never misses to mention it, even though we know how it happened and it's not the real state of things. As well as their GDP manipulation, if we have the biggest GDP in Europe, I think it's really quite as spectacularly funny if we consider how much GDP fell last year, but about that afterwards. So, the minister responded to this here to a colleague, Vucilović, for example, means that we will start off self-sufficient 2030 and begin to specify the dates of those tenders that the ministry is calling regarding those categories as if it were hard enough to claim that milk producers, meat, eggs are not dead. She actually warned us that they are not dead, they exist, there are some contests, they report to competitions, but a colleague I suppose she did not want to claim the clinical death of these producers but to warn that they are really in what my colleague Lenart from my club warned in a subordinate position means on that famous market. So when we talk about production, it's well known that the structure of the external trade in rh grains and olives generates 70%, 77% surpluses, and the largest deficit is achieved in the exchange of meat, milk, eggs, food for animals, fruit and drinks. Meat, milk, eggs and food for animals generate as much as 46% of the deficit. And what is absolutely unacceptable is that it is then supported by large producers who are not forced to take raw materials from a domestic producer, and we know that they are not known by Pevec, Gavrilović, Žito, etc., those who import very much meat. So it's unacceptable that we provide support not to force them to buy raw materials from a domestic producer at the same time. We have a deficit of almost 1 billion euros. So any talk about it, the minister also said in that response that there was an increase in production in those segments if I remember 2% well. What's 2%? Compared to what? So we are completely dependent on imports despite the subsidies that we understand each other. It should also be said that despite the subsidies, we are import-dependent. Why? Because there is also a problem with the structure of these subsidies and that we can work with these subsidies, which we can't, and we can't put absolutely no state protectionism as a framework, and our producers cannot compete on that European market because they are not competitive. So there's one big nice question about how we're going to get to the amount of 30 billion kuna worth of agriculture with 19 billion, but I'm going to remind you in 1991 we had 30 billion value of agriculture. The HDZ promises us that we will go back 30 years and that is some kind of progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92937	The time to, you've seen it yourself anyway. You yourself have seen that, thank you, thank you very much. [[But I stopped, but you're not careful.]] Yes, but you have a number of replicas, the first replica has a colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92938	Thank you. My colleague Peović, I would love to hear because I think I'm quite honest we've talked about this before, but I haven't been able to get your position on GMOs from your debate. So, I know you wanted to say something about it, too, so here's the thing, since I'm interested in this replica, I'd like to give you a chance to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92939	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92940	Thank you, Bojan, what I was about to say is that even more absurd maybe that we import means GMO-treated soy for cattle, and we export means soy which doesn't mean GMO soy, here's my colleague Lenart telling me what kind of sharp controls these are, you have to have paperwork, you have to even pass a certain and test, so now that soy is perfectly treated, and later we're importing livestock food. And otherwise that cattle food is huge so the share of that deficit has to be exported. So that's absurd. I have to say absurdly that the ministry doesn't pay any attention to it, or think it's some kind of, uh, some kind of problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92941	Thank you. Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92942	Dear colleagues of 15 development needs, none of whom relate to generation renewal. Small farmers are listed through different areas of intervention and implementation mechanisms but they are not a priority. What is your opinion, I would like to know why young and small farmers in this strategic document are not given what is important and important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92943	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92944	Well, I think it is unfortunately that policy that is almost governmental in all segments of our society, which is that our ruling policy is very prone and very careful of large, foreign trade chains, according to large producers, privileged elites, and to those young people who live from their work or want to live from their work in all segments, so also in segments, let's say small OPGs, small producers who are really fighting for their lives and for the breaths that my colleague Lenart was also talking about, meaning from month to month, it's a struggle for, literally, to mean their own life unfortunately. So I think that's where their strategies and policies are, but unfortunately they're just declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92945	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92946	Respected, the strategy does not also include the social conditionality of public subsidies. Therefore, someone receiving a subsidy should be the one who respects and the rights of workers, be socially inclusive and anything else that public money should represent the one who receives public support. What do you think the strategy should have included that new concept or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92947	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92948	I must admit that I am not sure whether I understand you correctly, but in any case what I could agree with, what you said that any type of public support must be defined both in a way and limited and labour rights and social sensitivity and all those strategic declarations that we receive here and in this strategy. We must also admit that a large part of the strategy has located the problem in some of its passages. I think in the strategy we find this problem, meaning both trade deficits and production and exports of those war products too little production and heavy struggles for the competitiveness of meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, etc. but there is no solution, and there is no such thing as what has been said here as specific numbers and how some results will be obtained. In any case, I agree that social justice, labour rights, the framework means this declarative, strategic must be present especially for those receiving support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92949	Thank you. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92950	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MP Peovic, here's the situation when you lied. I was recently with a family on Papuk and huge trucks roaring down that Croatian mountain driving woodwork. Okay. Maybe it's not exactly about agriculture, but I'm asking people where these trucks go? These trucks go to Italy and then we import of course furniture, Croatian winemakers buy barrels, barrels. It's all of course with extremely high added value. It's the same thing, here I was reminded of your exposure to exporting many simple, fundamental agricultural products, and we noticed in Croatia growth, an exceptional growth in imports of frozen bakery products. Unfortunately, these small or larger trade chains or bakeries are present today on every Croatian street. You have at least one. They sell us croissants, sell us pastries. It's all coming frozen from the outside. There's just your comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92951	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92952	A few things. So we definitely stripped our mountains, our hills, so we're exporting construction, and we're importing furniture. And I think it might be one of the most beautiful images of our economy. Indeed our mission, the task of this government, is to bring us down to raw materials, and unfortunately I will say that even in human form, and that this raw material is exploited by someone who will produce added value on that. So I think it's just a pretty picture. As far as imports are concerned, so I have to say that we need to be honest here, and that's what I think this left policy is. So if there's no state protectionism you're doomed to this type of policy, you're doomed to such a market exposure. We can't be so hypocritical as to talk about the free market, and then call for protectionism, although of course they're not all the same rules and everything stands. But I'm in favour of national protectionism just to protect our producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92953	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92954	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Peovic, you have touched a part relating to these direct payments, subsidies, incentives, let's call it what we want. We all know what this is about, where even there were examples that the government and the ministry were trying to encourage certain cultures. They were strawberries once, so they all planted strawberries. The second time they were nuts, I cited the example in my presentation on behalf of the club, and now we have 10% stake in nuts in the EU, be careful and we produce less than half a percent. There's no control later. So, after the incentives for organic farming are given, they're significantly higher than these standards. There's a huge space where if there's no control over it all again, we've got some hunting in the blurry and then we've got plantations without offerings. And then where are we? Nowhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92955	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92956	Same few things. So the fact is that policies change from year to year and that actually producers don't even know what's happening anymore and what they're supposed to do. It's one of, I mean not strategically let's say that approach. But the other thing is, in general, about incentives and incentives policy, it should go after protecting domestic production and something that you mentioned, it means it's invested and it's going in that direction of organic production. But as important as that may be, we must put first means some kind of food self-sufficiency. I think it's just as important, we can't look at each other without each other. But one thing we also didn't mention here, so the Ministry of Agriculture has an obligation each year to present to the Parliament a green report on agriculture and to organise a meeting on agriculture. So that should be discussed. Of course, the Minister should be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92957	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Bojan Glavasevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92958	Gracie... The first sentence of the vision of the strategy is to produce a higher quantity of high-quality food at competitive prices. [[The speaker speaks Italian, of course.]] [[/Intruder Radin: I hope you've arranged the video. Thank you. Here you go.]] For tens of years now, this sentence and its different variants have been adorned by various strategic documents that have actually devastated our agriculture year after year. Croatia, as a small and relatively low-tech agriculture, can hardly reach highly developed farms that have exactly what is said in this vision, therefore high-quality food at competitive prices. This strategy needs a new and original vision that will motivate farmers to produce, and young people to go to the country. In this regard, as a small and diverse agriculture, it would be good to focus on the gastro-tourism offer and short supply chains including the development of school schemes and green procurement of public cuisine where organic food should be introduced. The potentials of karst pastures should be exploited through extensive livestock farming. And near the tourist centers to build logistics distribution centres to establish this famous blue green highway that we have talked about here many times. All Croatia needs to be promoted as a gastro-destination. A strong advisory service should be developed, and the existing academic network should be put into operation for the development of agrarians. This is where in this part where I say that I should promote all of Croatia as a gastro-destination I think of what you will often hear from tourists who like it so why if someone comes to Dubrovnik you don't immediately promote something in Slavonia because if someone came from some America or from some further destination it will certainly not be a problem for him to go a little further away from our coast, just as an example. The ecological agriculture highlighted in Europe as a strategic need in our strategy is only referred to as an implementing mechanism. Environmental agriculture is a path towards sustainable agriculture, which has a significant market potential in addition to the conservation of natural resources, as Europe's organic product market has for many years seen continued growth of approximately 10% per year. On the other hand, at the Resort Ministry in the field of organic farming, there are several people from around 900 employees, so if I'm wrong, you're free to correct me. The failure of measure 3 was much and detailed by fellow Matula in the debate on behalf of the club, and I would add only this. The fact that the state only declares itself to the organic production system also speaks about agricultural facts, and the fact that when it points to the state country in the lease of the new version of the Agricultural Land Act, organic agriculture is ranked at the beginning with the same number of points as defence cooperatives. The action programme for the development of organic agriculture is delayed by adoption, and the new EU organic farming regulation, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, has not yet been implemented in national legislation, at least through the Agriculture Act. It is therefore necessary to focus incentives on organic food production. In particular, the supply of organic products in tourist destinations should be encouraged and organic meals should be encouraged in public restaurants with the use of green public procurement, the development of advisory services, as well as the increase of applied research in biological methods of plant and animal protection against pests. The strategy is about eye-to-eye and contradictory in its objectives. At the same time, an increase of 60% of intensive livestock production is planned, but also a reduction in pesticide use and mineral fertilisers. These objectives simply disprove each other because increasing livestock needs a significant increase in agrochemicals for the production of livestock. So our kind of proposal would be to encourage extensive livestock farming on the karst pastures and thus activate Lika and Gorski Kotar. In the continental part, sustainable livestock systems such as pasture-based organic livestock and volume-based food, silencing, etc. should be developed. Finally, the strategy shows that climate change is recognised as one of the main challenges for the management of agriculture over the next decade. The measures that should reduce the impact of climate change are also recognised, but no measures related to the compensation of the natural disasters that occur and that will hit our farmers even more. We would therefore like to see the strategy offer a new way to compensate for the damages to those to whom cold, fire, flood, fighting and similar destruction of crops, and thus often destroys their lives, but also the will to continue farming. Now, I'm gonna stop here, so if there's any more questions, we can say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92959	Thank you. Mr. Bull, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92960	My colleague Glavasevic, you belong to the green policies, i.e. Green-left coalition. What do you say, your view of GMOs, your view of glyphosate, which is fed up with import products sold on shelves and endangering the health of our people, and of course destroying competition. I can say that I gave the laws in the glyphosate ban procedure that some countries have already done, Austria and the battle of Monsanta lobby and others who want to overcome multinational companies and seeds and of course and treat it with glyphosate is obviously the Croatian government by its inaction or is paid by Monsant and lobbyist, co-financed because I gave the law 22.7.2020. Once we voted here on banning GMO products except for medical purposes, then a large number of MPs were unfortunately against it. Here, your position as your political options... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92961	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92962	Well, I'm glad you actually asked that question, fellow Bull, because that's a very good question. I remember in the previous assembly we had a law on GMOs, and at that time we voted differently. I voted in a spell, if I remember correctly and can be checked, for this law among other things because it increased the level of protection of citizens from genetically modified organisms or regulated the matter in Croatia even more strictly than it was regulated in the EU. And for their complete ban, they cannot be argued among other things, because many medicines contain not active but auxiliary substances that are important, which are fatted, for example, from genetically modified corn. And not to mention that, despite the stigma it has, GMOs have huge potential for food production in the areas affected by climate change. So it's not about the corn that in the past life was a pike, it's about simply being more resistant to some pests. Here, despite conspiracy theories.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92963	Thank you. Mrs. Peović It's already been [[Intruder: There was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Madam, not Bull, Bull is now, not this one, not in the display, not in the display, not in the display, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. [[We don't see, we don't know who.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92964	Is it according to the Rules of Procedure of Injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92965	Yeah, it's according to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, now we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92966	A colleague injures Article 238, where he imposes essentially an untruth where he says I've given the law on the ban on GMOs. Yes, I am, but except for medical purposes, and you're bound by GMOs and glyphosate, he's very tied up, and we know what a cidocor is, you know what a cidocor is, weed doesn't resolve, so we don't do weeds. Now imagine what we sell and what we eat, and we can't sell our pork domestically. There's only so much to note. Some kind of warning? [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92967	It was a replica, a warning, not a warning, but a warning. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic now, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92968	Here's a colleague you were talking about eco-agricultural, some of the numbers I have. So, as far as eco-agricultural matters are concerned, it's not so bad, since 2018. The number of producers increased from 1,413 to 4.374 producers, but this means that in total, the number of agricultural producers was only 2.6%, and it also significantly increased and the areas that were grown. But what should be analysed again is the structure of organic production. The biggest eco surfaces are in warfare, and that's again the problem we have with all the other dishes and spread the questions that we've raised here. So, as you comment on it, and I wanted something more to say about science, but I don't, I don't have time, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92969	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92970	Thank you for asking, colleague Peovic. Yeah, like, I was talking about organic livestock, first of all in the context of the activation of karst pasture in Lica and Gorski Kotar, so it was kind of my focus, but I agree with what you said would be necessary to see what structure. For example, we have a very similar situation in irrigation, so where, despite being very much funded, so it seems to me that a billion and 300 million kuna are in total with the goal, it was the idea to rise to 6% of the irrigated surfaces by 2020, we are still about 2.5%, but we have no idea what exactly is watering and what exactly is the structure of that. So this problem is that, if we don't know the structure it exists elsewhere, then here's clear on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92971	Thank you. Mr. Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92972	So, like you, I support eco-production, I think it's one of the ways we have to go and the fact is that Western Europe has up to 20% of the total eco-production at best, we're far from it. My question is simple. Do you need to change the overall policy of incentives that should be more related to eco-production and other measures that would support it? We know that now practically 1% of those in production get 30% of the incentives, so at 140,000 OPGs, only 1,200 actually get a third of the total of what the state gives, in translation of some 6.5 billion euros, 2.5 billion euros will come to that 1,000, and the remainder will be to the 140,000 that are left over, should some of this be rerouted to eco-production with special measures and support?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92973	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92974	Thanks for asking. So, this is one of our proposals, so we think that incentives should be directed to the production of organic food, especially to encourage the supply of organic products in tourist destinations, ecological meals in public restaurants and, of course, with the use of green public procurement. What we have also suggested is the development of environmental advisory services, as well as the increase of these applied research in biological methods of plant and animal protection. So to achieve really this synergy effect that will ultimately produce results, rather than actually have something that might seem more like a list of good wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92975	Thank you. Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92976	Dear fellow Glavasevic, I absolutely agree with your thesis on organic production, and you have touched the very policies of encouragement, so please just one brief summary of the past 30 years. Croatian agricultural policies and policies of incentives because we see from year to year what have these encouraging policies done? And I'm also interested in your position given how long we've been waiting for this document to be paid by budget means, do you believe that it can justify the purpose and bring any new step to Croatian agriculture?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92977	Well, I think thank you for, uh, sorry. I think if you asked me for a summary of the last 30 years. Croatian agriculture, which is as much as I have in a minute and actually less available if I have to, if I'm forced to sum it up then I can summarise it as producing a higher amount of high-quality food at competitive prices such as the vision in this strategy, but joke aside. So without that, it's actually a very civilized discussion so far, it seems to me, and I really wouldn't want to contaminate it with really neither pulsism nor any scary political evaluations. I really hope, I really hope that this strategy will change something. I think the debate is very constructive and I hope that colleagues and colleagues from the ministry and ministers if they return that many of these suggestions will take into account and that the strategy can give some results. I mean it to them, I mean it to us as to Croatia from my heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92978	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, and now it's time to go. Natalija Martincevic. She's gone, she's losing her right. ... Yeah? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, she's gone. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92979	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly, my dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposed strategy is a set of beautiful and modern trends of desire, and it can always be desired, and if all these wishes are realistic and realistic it is now another aspect that will be the course of the intended time period to which this strategy applies and demonstrates itself. But not only did something good come to be critical, but it is that the strategy will make it more possible to develop, invest, adapt, modernise, modernise and everything else primarily to the OPGs, small OPGs and family small businesses, claiming that Croatian agriculture is based and that it will be based in the future on small production as a basis of Croatian agricultural production, but also large systems will not be ignored. Whether it will be spent in reality, and then, alive, they were seen. I will stay the most in the strategy section, which is the development needs and objectives of the Strategy, in particular the development need 3, to increase the fairness of granting support to agricultural economies, to better balance the ratio of support to small and medium-sized people and, on the other hand, large ones. I quote from the Strategy's proposal, rerouting support to small and medium-sized producers is necessary because of the huge disproportionateity that currently exists in the ratio of direct payments paid to large farmers in Croatia and 1% of the biggest users receive almost 30% of the total direct payments. Most associations have proposed for many years some type of aid restrictions precisely because of this disproportionateity where most of the money support went to the minority, and most have received a small part of the support, but it has never fallen to fertile soil because many examples show and feel the strength and power of these large systems, associations of several of them or individuals. The final example of this power is the coming Act on the availability of state agricultural land on which I will attend the plenary session when it comes to the agenda. In short, this is to be welcomed provided that we live in the implementation itself, too, the part that does not hold water is the repeated repeat of digitisation in various forms and parts of the Strategy, it is understandable, but I think we have a problem and a very long way to go to this digitalisation of Croatian agriculture because of all of us known facts and indicators, which are among other things, the average size of our agricultural holdings, the average age of basic tools for agricultural production, machinery, machinery, machinery, tractors, farm equipment or stables, and other production facilities, average age of economy holders or owners, education of agricultural producers, primarily I mean information literacy and knowledge, and then also the professional education of agricultural direction. To get to that desired digitization, I think we still have a lot of stairs to go through that we can't skip. The following is the pushing of livestock that the Ministry recognized as a deficit branch in agriculture, especially dairy, and thus the current situation in livestock farming has led us to missed policies of HDZ governments through various operational programmes, and in time IPARD and SAPARD measures through which very large amounts of money are pumped, well from our Croatian budget. In particular, these are operational programmes, and in the end no one else has accounted for or controlled these large and expensive investments in any way for a number of years until most of them failed and resulted in a drastic decrease in production. Now this is what the Ministry wants to do after it increases or raises that production representation, by pushing there, that livestock industry everywhere, wherever it can, and so on through some links and production, for example. in organic agricultural production, totally incomprehensible as far as that part is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92980	You, too. Replica, first, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92981	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Nikolic, you say and quote in fact a strategy that says that you should take care of small and medium-sized producers, of course, not including large ones, but I think that this very strategy denies exactly what you mentioned, and that is already the proposed Agricultural Land Act. The strategy, if it is designed as it should be the starting point of all the laws and legal solutions we offer, and we already have in the procedure of the Agricultural Land Act which is all but that because it is a law that suits only large or those with a large financial background, and not small and medium so I would like your comment precisely on this fact, that already the laws that are in the process are actually denying this Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92982	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92983	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Everything you have stated is absolutely right, and in particular in the Law on Agricultural Land, we will look back when it comes to the plenary session, but you reminded me that there is nothing in the Strategy about the concept of smart villages. The funding section shows an annual allocation from the EU budget, while the part to be financed from the national budget is missing. So that part, let's say, isn't in the strategy at all, and that's been talked about a lot in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92984	Mr. Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92985	Here, fellow Nikolic, your exposure to the Strategy, and now that you've studied the Strategy and exposed and when you return to Osijek from where you come from, and we know where the center of agriculture is in Slavonia, what can you do to small OPGs, medium manufacturers, large producers, what can you tell them in short lines, what this strategy brings them good, when we see what the prices have now been repromated, when we see what the conditions of agriculture are, we are now doing some kind of strategy, by me a picture of beautiful desires, far away from having good things, but what main drawings could you tell farmers what this better strategy will bring to them tomorrow in our agriculture like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92986	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92987	Thank you, colleague Vukas. Yes, this strategy provides a lot of hope, and as I have already stated that it is a set of beautiful and modern trendy desires, whether it will be realized, that time will show, but we have the current situation that artificial fertilisers have accumulated by 300%, so let's say, small OPGs who have invested 6 thousand kunas previously in artificial fertilisers, now will have to invest 14 thousand kunas, which means that in the beginning of that, they must give those money in order to invest, and we all know what financial situation farmers themselves are in, so it's invaluable to them and I'm afraid that it will come to them the most rewarding that they buy ready corn that will not be, of course, the same quality as their domestic corn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92988	Thank you. Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92989	Dear colleague Nikolic. You come from Slavonia and since we have received the first demographic indicators in Slavonia itself and of course that some people go across the border and leave that part of Croatia, on the one hand due to the collapse of the industry, on the other hand, because of the inconsistencies of agricultural policies by which Slavonia was once recognized. Please just as you comment that generation restoration has not been given almost enough attention through the development of this strategy and whether this segment of generation renewal can ensure that young people want to stay in Slavonia, want to deal with agriculture where they really have a godly field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92990	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92991	I thank my colleague, Jaksic. And since it is already the third, the third term of the HDZ government, along with two HDZ ministers, has literally been destroyed for six years by farmers because the figures do not lie. Now I'm going to give you a heads-up. In 2015, we had agricultural production of 16.5 billion kuna and about 4 billion total of all products and direct and rural and marketable, and in 2021 we had agricultural production of around 19 billion kunas, which we have broken down about 7 billion kunas of agricultural aid, resulting in less agricultural production today than we were 6 years ago. And the conclusion of all this is not that they didn't implement it, not that they were implementing a failed agricultural policy because our agricultural production has dropped, but millions of people have left Croatia, and most of all from Slavonia that produced the most. Yeah, good, okay. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92992	Thank you, thank you, you have no more replicas, but Mr. Ivanovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92993	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238, Ms. Honorable Assembly MP Nikolic said so many things that are absolutely not standing, which in this way offends all the hardworking people who work in Slavonia, produce and work to survive on this global market that is ruthless. Mix demographics and agriculture in this context in which Mr Jaksic asked you a question I don't think it's smart. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic.]] nor useful. [[Intruder: Mr. Ivanovic!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92994	You know I should have interrupted you right at the beginning, right, that's what the Rules of Procedure says, but I'm just gonna give you a heads-up, let everyone talk. Mrs. Petir, of course the debate you never have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After 20 years, Ms. Ministers with Associates, MPs and MPs, Croatia brings a Agriculture Strategy aimed at increasing the value of agricultural production by 2030 to 30 billion kuna. All activities planned by this strategy are in line with European strategic plans and strategies, but also with national priorities relating to increasing the value of agricultural production volumes, increasing productivity, promoting agricultural economies, particularly small, medium and young farmers, but also an adequate response to climate change. It is clear that the Agriculture Strategy is a key document for the transformation of Croatian agriculture and that it brings a number of positive measures. But while we are strategically considering and also planning in the long term, we must understand that agricultural production is in the clear sky, which is exposed to various impacts not only of changing weather influences but also of market turbulence to which it must react quickly and immediately. Since the beginning of the Covid crisis, the state has reacted interveningly to the agriculture sector with 675 million kuna through 13 measures. Recent collection of energy produced an increase in the price of fertilisers by almost 300%, a 50% increase in seed prices, which has a significant impact on the accumulation of agricultural production. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has responded to initiatives and farmers, but also to me personally and throughout the sector that they have frozen the price of blue diesel to 6.5 kuna, but have also brought a package of financial aid to farmers of €200 million, for fishermen of €50 million, and have intervened with another round of tax discharges in such a way that they have reduced VAT from 13% to 5% for food and agricultural repromaterials to fresh meat and fish, eggs, fruits, vegetables, edible oils, fats, children's food, seedlings, artificial fertilisers and pesticides, and for butter and margarine from 25% to 5%. Disorders that occur most hit small and medium-sized agricultural producers. In part, this is also conditioned by the need to adapt them to new techniques, technologies, knowledge, innovations, but also partly to their weak negotiating power, which is also conditioned by a weak interest in association and joint market performance. Although the Republic of Croatia has adopted a legal framework for the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, we must be aware that these practices are still taking place, that unfair competition is present until consumers, on the other hand, recognise to a sufficient extent the importance of locally produced food. I think it is also our duty to bear in mind that when we buy locally that we then support locally and that, in my national framework, should be branded in full agricultural production. It is good that the strategy recognises the need to adopt standards that promote public and private quality and certification systems and so far the marks of proven quality have Croatian apples and eggs, but I think it is necessary to include as much of our products in this process as possible because we will better position our domestic production. Let's be honest when we prescribe quality and certain standards in this way we eliminate most of the imports and it's nothing that anyone else might also be doing and that I find positive. Also, I think we talked a lot about connecting agriculture and tourism, about the importance of establishing short food supply chains as quickly as possible, and that is something that needs to be applied immediately. In addition to food producers, farmers should also be seen as guardians of the rural area, and I therefore think that, in the future, there will be a new common agricultural policy, which in some ways is particularly valuable for young farmers, which puts emphasis on digitisation, production, networking, access to knowledge and innovative solutions. Of course, there is fear of farmers that green ambition could affect food security, and I see it as a key solution to renewable energy generation in agriculture, which would greatly reduce the pressure on agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92996	Thank you very much for your accuracy. Mr. Bull has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92997	Thank you very much. A colleague named Petyr has been injured by an article. In 238 di disrespects lawmakers, says the government has stepped into the protection of small and medium-sized farmers, which is incorrect. The government degrades the Croatian people, and mainly Croatian farmers. For example, your colleagues are Petir greenhouses in Kaštela, so a greenhouse in Kaštela, look what's going on. It happens that the guards were destroyed by the people who produced in the greenhouses, the best in.../Speaks speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92998	Thanks, time, thanks, time. And I've already written another note so we don't even have to make a deal. And now we're going on, not that, but I gave a warning, you have a good right to that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u92999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. because my colleague Bulj, except he disrespects the MPs because he didn't listen to my debate at all, but the last minute he ran to collect as many of these reports as he could because our public doesn't know how to go and hurt the Rules of Procedure, and then it turns out he's the most active agent, and he only reports to answer, and he doesn't listen to what I'm saying. I was talking about measures that the government of the Republic of Croatia has taken to respond to the demands of farmers and initiatives of us who are monitoring the sector in order to ease the impact due to the increase increase [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] prices of energy. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93000	It was a replica of course. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a reminder, and Mrs. Selak Rasdic has the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then has Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93001	Here's my first article. 238, indeed, the demeaning of parliamentarians. I don't think a colleague has the right to demean his colleague Bulja and to say that he only works on statistics, to report that he would appear when he knows how much of his colleague Bulj is committed to agriculture and only in this year has he given four laws relating to agricultural subjects, so I ask you with respect to the work of our most active representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93002	Thank you, a reminder of course. It was a replica. Mr. Bull. It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93003	I'm giving up because all the lies were told by Mrs. Petyr. I'm giving up as she told the lie absolutely... [[/Intruder Radin: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93004	Mr. Bull is known for telling lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93005	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93006	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, he was injured by counterpart Selak Rasdic, who now appeared at the debate suddenly knows what was going on in HS, who was saying, who represented what. I don't think Mrs. Petir demeaned any of the parliamentary representatives when she said the government reacted to both her initiative and HDZ's initiative to protect small producers, to protect farmers, therefore so much about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93007	Thank you, time. Just out of respect, I don't interrupt anyone, just out of respect, not the Rules of Procedure. It's a warning. Mrs. Selak Rasdic. I gave a warning. That's a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93008	Art. 238. Col. Ivanovic demeans me and is totally without reason offended by the fact that I have established a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure and the demeaning of my dear colleague Mira Bulja. And I don't know what this is if you'd like to compare my statistics and your contribution to the parliamentary debates, so we'll see who's showing up when and where. I hope that at least here's this bill or strategy you read when you didn't know anything about yesterday about the subject we talked about, and it was about education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93009	There was no disrespect, no personal insults, there was nothing I meant, and I have to warn you too. I would beg you, now you will have a replica you will be able to say whatever you want and I will not say anything to you, so I do not know why you are using a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but good. Mrs. Bencic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93010	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Petir, I'd like to respond to your comment in fact on the fact that Croatia with the Czech Republic has one of the largest concentrations of subsidies in agriculture, or I think about 70% of subsidies go to those largest entities in agriculture. And on this basis, I would also like to ask you what the Government is so far, and specifically, the Ministry of Agriculture has made it possible for small producers to provide, not subsidies, but a guaranteed market? So, for example, what was done about green public procurement? What is being done about the methodology for local self-government units to plan green public procurement and how to guarantee the market for small agricultural entities in the long term?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93011	Thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93012	Thank you very much, colleague Bencic on the line. Through this strategy, the government proposes to transform Croatian agriculture and reroute support to small and medium-sized producers and young farmers. This is also to be traced to what has been adopted in the framework of the common agricultural policy because we as a Member State are the beneficiary of a common agricultural policy that has been the longest and most expensive common policy the EU has for 60 years. In this regard, therefore, a number of analyses included in the national strategic plan where the support is being rerouted in this particular sense and the national strategic plan in its draft was sent to the European Commission for consultations. We, as the Committee on Agriculture, asked the Ministry of Agriculture to take this national strategic plan into account after the European Commission's reply and to give our comments afterwards, so that when I see detailed measures, we will be able to discuss it in more detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93013	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic is now a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93014	Dear colleagues, Petir, in mid-2023, ran out of moratorium to sell land to foreigners. We know that agricultural land is now one of our most painful points when we talk about quality, or non-quality agricultural policies. In that sense, what do you think should be our solution in the next period? Do you think it is necessary to extend the moratorium, i.e. to give the first purchase right to the Republic of Croatia, and if this right of the first purchase of land should also be applied to private land or only those previously owned by state property?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93015	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93016	Thank you very much, colleague Selak-Raspadić. Yes, the moratorium lasts until July 2023 and we received it after the initial end of the moratorium and requires the Croatian Government towards the European Commission to extend it. Of course, we can re-route that request but also experience from other Member States so far say that it is difficult for the European Commission to allow another round of extensions, which means that we must look for solutions within its own national instruments. Personally, what I see happening on the ground, there are quite high appetites of certain foreign employers, companies, investors for land. We have seen such examples of land-grabbing, for example, in both Romania and Hungary and Poland, and that is what we must avoid, so in this sense we will also look for instruments through the Agricultural Land Act to limit it. The measure proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture It certainly is a measure to be discussed. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93017	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mrs Ahmetovic, let me just say when we're done with the replicas, we'll have five minutes break for the usual technical, video-technical reasons. Here you go, Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93018	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Petir, at the beginning of your presentation, you confirmed that Croatia has adopted a farming strategy after 20 years, unlike the minister who says the agricultural strategy has already been adopted. Here is now an opportunity, because thanks to her and them, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they are so good that they gave the Parliament the opportunity to discuss it. Confirming that we are only adopting a Agricultural Strategy, you also confirm that we have been late for at least a year, so I am interested in how you comment on the fact that the Government hereby violates the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia, which is prescribed that long-term acts such as strategy, i.e. strategic planning, are adopted for a period of at least 10 years. Since the strategy applies to 2030, it is now in 2022, so the law is being broken because it is only adopted in 8 years. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93020	Thank you, colleague Ahmetovic, for the replica. So, if I remember correctly, there was no obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to guide the Agriculture Development Strategy until 2030 in the parliamentary procedure. It's not kind of changed by the Agriculture Act that we actually discussed somewhere in the spring last year. The government sent a strategy to the Parliament procedure in September. We discussed it immediately as a committee, and here she was for a long time in the agenda and was waiting for her to discuss it. I think it is a good amendment to the Agriculture Act, which has also been established that parliamentarians can contribute to the debate on the strategy. It's good to talk about today. I wish we had gotten into some depth and essence of concrete proposals, which we think should possibly still be added, and that we are less concerned with some general policy, and so it is my impression that the debate is going on all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93021	Mrs. Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93022	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Do you feel that this strategy proposal has sufficiently recognised the importance and role of women in rural areas? I don't think so. This proposal for a strategy did not plan concrete measures to strengthen their position in the light of women's incentives to launch their own business and to increase the number of TSOs. I believe that such an important strategic document should not only be a general list of wishes, but any set goal should be supported by a measure that aims to achieve it. How do you comment? Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93023	Thank you very much, colleague Simunić. Well, I am personally advocacy that the position of women in rural areas and their multi-functional role is much better recognised, because it seems to me in general, not only when we talk about some Croatian perception, but also about a European one, and I can testify because I was a rapporteur in the European Parliament for rural women and I noticed that somehow it is not sufficiently serious and that the measures that are proposed are not being validated later, or that it is not being verified what is actually happening with these measures. I'll tell you on one example. The example is that I discovered when I analyzed what all Member States were doing that had the opportunity to introduce measures for young farmers in their rural development programmes. No Member State has introduced that measure. It just shows the level of perception of women in rural space, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93024	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93025	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. The public ministry announced that agriculture is intended for 7.5 billion euros, with 4.9 billion euros in the strategy. Do you think the ministry should also make it clear how much money is intended for agriculture and how much for the public sector, or for the state sector?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93026	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93027	Thank you, dear colleague Nikolic. I think the strategy said that 7 and a half billion euros were made through seven years of disease, so a multi-annual financial programme that also includes direct payments, which includes rural development measures from the Rural Development Fund. There are additional measures for agriculture from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, we have an additional wine envelope and beekeeping programme. What I noticed, and now I don't know maybe the minister will look back later, in this financial structure, there is, for example, no mine envelope, and we know that there is still a part of the forest land in Croatia under mines, and in fact we have managed to fight the mine envelope to be re-classified and to continue, so I think it should be added to this amount because it refers to forest land that connects to agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93028	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93029	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. A number of the objectives set out in the European Strategy "From Field to Table" in this strategy are missing, such as ensuring food security because of potential threats to the pandemic of covid-19, such as promoting sustainable food consumption and facilitating the transition to a healthy and sustainable diet or reducing the loss and waste of food or the fight against food fraud throughout the food supply chain. There is also no word on unfair trade practices. The covida-19 pandemic is also listed in only one chapter in the financing as if the pandemic had no effect on agriculture in Croatia. In... An analysis of the agricultural sector has no word on the pandemic, perhaps under the influence of the parole that Croatia has won the crown. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93031	Thank you, colleague Vlasic Iljkić, on the replica. Well, I've heard through the previous discussions where representatives have referred that some segments are not listed, name and last name if we can say so, in the strategy, but what's at the beginning of the strategy is that this strategy includes all those European policies and strategies relating to agriculture, meaning it's not just a common agricultural policy, it's about the field-to-table strategy, it's about the biodiversity strategy, it's about the Green Plan. Of course, some of these documents are not binding, but their recommendations cannot be ignored because, for example, if we look at only the impact of climate change, regardless of what we are in the early good positions, better than the rest of the EU, but surely we have to take into account the calculations that will happen in 2050, as scientists say, which will happen in 2070 and thus model it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93032	Thank you very much. Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93033	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Petir, here, as a full-time debate on the Agriculture Strategy continues today by 2030, Croatian media reports that there are really successful examples, we hear today what is happening on Pag and in Sirana Gligora, but since we are coming from Sisak-Moslavina County and as people who have been following agriculture for years, the story of the moslavina skitt is certainly one of the most successful stories in Croatian agriculture. To all these general objectives, the strategic objectives of this strategy are therefore to increase the efficiency and added value of agricultural economies in view of all the measures that the ministry, local and regional self-government has supported, what is your view of a successful agricultural story in Croatia and is everything in agriculture just as black?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93034	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93035	Thank you very much, colleague Chicken, for the replica, so I think you could see from my presentations, which I had today, that I don't think everything is black in Croatian agriculture, but I am often accused of being an incorrigible romantic when I talk about agriculture and rural space because I try to see what's good, of course not staring at those problems that are really lacking in agriculture and affecting that these problems are being corrected. Now that you're asking me as Moslavka, I have to go down completely regionally, about the cheapness of course I'm going to tell you that this is the best wine that really goes along with all the dishes, and when I represent it in the European Parliament, I have to say that European officials have been more than thrilled with it, but the way to today that the public recognizes the starch has been long and painful, it has lasted almost 20 years and I can say that it has not yet been completed and it is still going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93036	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, we know that branding certain indigenous products in agriculture keeps existing, but also gives added value. I am interested in how much more of the Republic of Croatia in your opinion is available for branding certain indigenous products, and we know that each of our areas has separate quality indigenous products. I can only mention, by the way, from Dalmatia Dalmatian prosciutto, Dražni prosciutto, Hvar lavender, soparnik and means they are all either in the process or already branded at national or European level. Because of what I've mentioned, because of the added value, because of the passing on the market, I wonder if we have any more options and how much to brand certain of our indigenous products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93038	Thank you, pal Brcic, for the replica. I think that now that you've listed all these indigenous products from your Dalmatian region some of us who haven't arrived for lunch today have been spinning these pictures and we've been able to see them very lively. Of course this is a good way to go, and in this direction we should continue, so we have huge potential in branding our indigenous products, and that is our chance because our products are quality, they taste, without any additions, and actually when you try them, they're so full of mouths and that's something you don't really have to be Croats, you don't have to be from that region where this product comes from to admit how nice our products really are and that's a chance for our producers. We can't melagomanite and produce I don't know how large quantities, but what we produce a little should be quality and should come to the end of the consumer in a quick way to be fresh and, of course, in that sense and to achieve a better price.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93039	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93040	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, today there has been a lot of shouting for the ministry to be delayed by certain measures of everything that is going on. But the terrain says something else entirely. Climate change is certainly something that will limit the future and there is no speech. Watering systems, Osijek-Baranja County just now 17 irrigation projects. We set up irrigation systems and then happen which problem, no interested users. You can't find a farmer who'll take 2, 3 or 5 acres and irrigate it. Therefore, Mr. Vukas, as far as you've been to the board meetings, you have no right to interfere. Therefore, there is no one-sided problem there is and the medal has both sides and it should be discussed And that needs to be dealt with seriously. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93041	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93042	Thank you, dear colleague Ivanovic, that you are right and that is what the European Commission has made clear, so it will no longer be possible to invest money from European funds in irrigation systems for which there are no end-users to join. We have testified that according to that national irrigation plan that, if I'm not mistaken, systems of irrigation that actually represent dead capital were being built in 2005 because no one joined them. So that's something that won't happen in the future. It was also said today that there are no irrigation projects. According to what we received at the session as information 27 Croatian water projects have in preparation for irrigation and it is for some 20,000 hectares. So far, it has been realised through rural development measures that cover some 7,000 hectares, so of course we want it to be much more and that a lot more farmers are joining, but in that sense, it seems to me that we have to implement a certain education. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93043	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93044	Thank you, Vice President. Collar Petir, in the F1 implementation mechanism, strengthening links with scientific institutions, says this, will develop a centre or system for learning in collaboration with scientific institutions that will offer long-term and short-term education programmes, etc. The only place I see it is if it really should have been such a center it would have been Bania, it would have been either Petrinja or Clay. It is said that it should be located right next to a higher education institution, there it exists, I do not believe that it should be put along with this one with the agronomia in Zagreb or Osijek or Split. And I'm very interested in your opinion because there's a danger that our nieces and nieces usually hire for good wages and then provide such services. advice. [[Thank you, Mr. Matula.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93045	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93046	Thank you, Comrade Matula, for the replica. We are aware that we must invest in knowledge and knowledge transfer. We have repeatedly said that it is insufficient for one counselor to come to 585 agricultural economies today, but we have also heard the experiences of farmers that sometimes they do not have enough knowledge to answer the questions of farmers, which means that we must educate our advisers. In that sense, it is certain that such an idea of a centre as far as I see it would include private consultants, which I think is extremely important because they have already been placed on the market but have not received financial support so far as it is possible in the future that through such a single centre we can actually train our consultants, but also provide services to farmers. We, in time, established a center for plums and chestnuts at Banovina, which had just been aimed at giving and passing knowledge. in the segment of the rise of these permanent plantations but I heard in the meantime [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that it goes into the privatisation process. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I hope I heard wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93047	I'm sure he'll be pleased. Ma'am, Mr. Lenart, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93048	Dear fellow Petyr, here you have in the debate alone highlighted the target value of 2030, 30 billion today we are at 19 billion is currently inflation somewhere around 5%, threatened by far greater inflation than today and by the inflationary action itself we will reach 2030 to 30 billion. Don't you think it would be better if we had set ourselves a goal, meaning the initial value in kilograms, liters, pieces, tons, I don't know what physical size it means, and then we set ourselves some kind of goal that would be measurable and realistic and realistic, and this kind of goal, I believe, I'm starting to believe that we don't have the right information as much in these kilograms, gallons or pieces as we're hiding behind the financial amount, and we're not really going to see if we're increasing production in 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93049	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93050	Thank you for the replica of my colleague Lenart, so on page 55 and 56, you have your expectations listed. You know that according to EU policy, we don't have support per kilo or per litre but we have a hectare, we tried to influence it, but we couldn't. But probably someone calculated what it means to increase, for example, the irrigation of agricultural areas to 50,000 hectares that it carries in offerings, or you are listed here the number of cattle' conditional throats in thousands write it for a complete fund and is specifically listed as a feather. It writes the number of hectares to be supported for organic production. It also writes the rate of risk of poverty in rural areas to be reduced. So those parameters are listed which are also an integral part of European policies in order to be followed in parallel, but therefore it is quite logical that we know how much on a certain surface we can also produce what are optimal offerings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93051	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93052	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr, you mentioned the integration of agriculture and tourism, branding and such. Most often, we talk about how the huge impact of tourism on the placement and production of agricultural food products is, and for the first time, what I am very happy about is how agricultural production can affect tourism and how just thanks to local products there can be a promotion of agricultural gastronomic tourism and this is a new opportunity for growth. Surely you are aware that someone will visit the Dalmatian Zagora to try the Dalmatian prosciutto. For example. The OPG and the house of Dalmatian prosciutto Roca has contributed significantly to the development of our hinterland and the promotion of this product. And you probably know from your experience a lot more examples of where the offer has contributed to the development of destination tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93053	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93054	Thank you very much, fellow MP. So certainly a lot of examples can be given where domestic agricultural products were actually placed through this segment of rural tourism, although it helped to develop the whole region and not only to offer food or accommodation, but to offer emotion if I can say so. I think it's something that tourists tie up and they become promoters of our destination. Here we were as a committee recently in your Sibenik-Knin County where we discussed in the rural parliament a strategy from field to table and short food supply chains, and as an example of good practice we visited Etnoland in Pakovo Selo which is indeed one of the most awarded rural destinations and I believe that their plans that have been presented can still contribute significantly to the Dalmatian Zagora And become attractive to tourists. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93055	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93056	Here's an esteemed colleague to point out what I liked about this strategy, which is when it comes to technological development of innovations, so technological development, I quote now, "Technological development in genetics, nanotechnology and remote research, blockchain, big date, Internet stuff, artificial intelligence, robotics, e-commerce" etc. Therefore, it provides opportunities for growth in production, cost reduction and is further said to be "a significant role in this will be given professional support to farmers through a system to advise farmers". When we talked about it with some people involved in some projects whether development is in agriculture, here I will now quote their comment on it, says "The devil is how we four years of blood have been pouring to implement the Centre of Competence in Trill", here is information perhaps the minister, "it is a project of national interest which is currently hampered by some HDZ turmoil in Trill. The project is worth 150 million kunas, we've got 50 million kunas ready to go, there's no one to sign. What the hell artificial intelligence is going to be if we can't create a basic product of high added value because of political problems."
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93057	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93058	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I don't know exactly about this case, but I do know about some competence centres and development centres that are just connected to agriculture that are made with very generous EU funds that were to be served and not only as divergents of knowledge but also as agricultural incubators, so today they stand as dead capital, so I think it's important to invest in centres of competence where we have agricultural production, if we're talking specifically about agriculture or any other activity that's going to be linked to it, not doing buildings or declaring centres that won't contribute to anything. In that sense, it would always be to scan the condition first, to make a feasibility study of justification, and then to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93059	Thank you. And the last replica of Mrs. Andreja Maric video. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93060	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Although the Republic of Croatia is relatively rich in agricultural land, it is generally not used enough, we still have under-processed agricultural areas and we do not really have a good strategy if we want to improve current agricultural productivity. Do you think the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a realistic vision of potential areas or land for organic production, or are these numbers of hectares listed here in the strategy of St. 56, for which support for organic agriculture is actually given rather ambitiously or unrealisticly in 2024, 202..., 2030? So here's the current data that I came across that actually current organic production, and some future isn't exactly great, so areas under ecological agriculture slow down their growth even though certain resources are being allocated. However, agricultural organic production [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] It's still meaningless. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Here, try to be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93061	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93062	Thank you very much. Representative Maric I wish you a quick recovery and that you return to us as soon as possible. In its assessment of the National Strategic Plan of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission highlighted the growth of agricultural areas under ecological production as a strategic advantage of Croatia. So these areas are growing and I would even say that when I saw that there were 140,000 hectares in the strategy, I was wondering why not more, why wouldn't they be even more ambitious than that. I see you're a little skeptical about this existing number. I think that we have a chance to reach this figure because let's be realistic and only in Sisak-Moslavina County have 180,000 hectares of agricultural land, of which one significant number of land is intact and unprocessed, so just to put it into function you already have an audible potential for the development of organic production. What bothers me more is the structure of that production. It's nice for us to make hazelnuts. But not all nuts go to Ferrero Rocher. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time.]] So I think there's a little balance here. so that organic production is not just nuts and nuts. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93063	Thank you very much. As announced before we have a short break, I suggest it be 1700 hours. Thank you. It's 4:52 a.m. CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.00 HOURS Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93066	Mr. Bully, Mr. Bully, we keep working, keep working, that's it. Welcome to the SDP, come in, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing a strategy, a strategically important document, but we see the interest of the ruling, but good. I want to explain a few things here and say, to underline actually what I was saying and in an individual debate. Before all, 2002. We had the last strategic document relating to agriculture, which expired after a few years and did we notice that we didn't have it at all? We didn't. Shall we note now that we have a strategic document? They tell us we won't. And why is that? I'll prove it to you, Empirical. So, the laws of this resolution come into this assembly whether we have a strategy or not, and correct me if I'm wrong, and I don't think I'm wrong about this, strategic planning requests exactly the opposite, requires that we have a strategy from which then all the legal solutions come out when we decide what we want, how, where, in what way, etc., and I can't read anything from this document. The minister says the conditions have changed since 2002, the last time we had a document, that they did, but the document obviously hasn't changed much. I've been listening to regional distribution centres for as long as I'm in politics, and that's been a long time. I've been hearing about ULO coolers for a long time since I've been in politics, so almost none of this project has been realized, and I don't have to explain to you what ULO coolers mean to fruit producers, etc., etc. or we're spinning here in a circle, I have a feeling that we're like a dog that's chasing its tail, and we're not actually coming up with any solution, and we haven't actually achieved anything with this document except that we can say that we have a strategic document, that it exists, that based on it we can withdraw European funds, but we haven't solved any burning issue, nor can we solve it by strategy that we understand ourselves, but what we need to solve by strategy is where we see ourselves for that 10th year, in which segment of agriculture. Because colleagues and colleagues must not forget that, to exist on the EU market. There are already busy niches in the EU where we simply cannot be competitive, and what I expected from the strategy was in fact to analyse where we can be competitive and how and how and then to target our legal solutions to whether it is vineyarding, whether it is olive growing, whether it is livestock farming, can't be livestock farming as livestock, could be one segment of livestock, is it something third, I don't know. We should discuss this before this strategy is adopted. But where we are absolutely champions is colleagues and fellow environmental footprints, an ecological footprint that is very weak, which is almost nonexistent because unfortunately we do not produce almost anything. From year to year our inputs in agriculture are growing, and outputs or production is falling. For example, organic production is an example because areas under organic production are constantly increasing, although it is not some impressive percentage unfortunately still countries under organic production, but it is also paradoxical to increase the area under organic production, and that organic production and its output falls from year to year. When we talk about livestock, there has been a lot of talk about dairy today after this pay phone, and here is the Croatian agricultural chamber that warns us that we could lose milk production very quickly, and I say in this strategy I do not see a solution for it. The more we have already come up with legislative proposals of the Seed Act or the Agricultural Land Act, which is already in a procedure that will not push that story into some goal, or objective, because it simply does not have a goal. The goal is to spread the Valda, and the goal is to please the great and bury what little of the farming remains, which means for the rural space, I don't even have to mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93068	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Simonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93069	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, the issue of agricultural land is one of the most important items directly conditional on and affecting the development of agriculture. A special segment is a state agricultural land, especially because of this, the Law on Agricultural Land has been amended 20 and more times, and nevertheless at this point is not a clear long-term concept of availability to state agricultural land, currently in JLS with major problems in implementation and unequal practices in the past. In addition to being detected as a developmental need, the strategy is not being discussed through implementing mechanisms. I think that this strategy should provide the framework and direction in which it is planned to go, and should also highlight the importance of addressing the problem of raw agricultural land and putting it into office. Please comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93070	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93071	Thank you, colleague, so I think you're absolutely right. Agricultural land is a basic resource in agriculture, but it is also an exceptional strategic, security, however you will, resource in the modern world. Food production, self-sufficiency as much as possible in this global world and in the EU means a lot, by the more the current crisis or pandemic has shown how weak our logistics chains remain. And you're right when you say actually agriculture should define what we want in agriculture. Once we know that, we will easily distribute the land to who, how, why, in what percentages and with what and with what purpose. As long as we don't know it, we're literally babbled in the dark, we're taping, we're looking for each other, we're going to go crazy, and we're not going to get anything out of it, and the least we're going to have is our farmer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93072	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93073	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, here's the question why are there strategies? So there may be a reason to see how the style changed, but not the content of our Ghost Writer or writer from behind these strategies. Let's say that when we read the one that was created 20 years ago, we can see the next one. The land market, as the most important natural resource, limits the existing irregularities of land books and the slow and complicated process of harmonising catastres and grantovnica, which is only one, although not the main reason inadmissible to a high percentage of unprocessed agricultural land. And then we wake up 20 years later and read. However, although Croatia is relatively rich in agricultural land, it is generally not used enough. Various factors contribute to the weaker functioning of the agricultural land market in Croatia, including institutional fragmentation, complexity of the relationship between stakeholders, lack of data in the process of creating spatial plans and restrictions related to ownership. So how do you comment on this style shift. [[I'm sorry, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93074	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93075	Language develops colleagues, language is a living body as we all linguists know how to evaluate the language normally. And it seems that language has evolved more in these 20 years than our needs and our goals in agriculture. And it should be exactly the opposite. Why? Because the whole market has changed, because philosophy has changed, because resources have changed strategically, both agricultural land and food and one of the most important resources, but this is probably some officials or some of the leading staff in our ministries still not clear. It's not clear to them that a nice document that we're going to rephrase doesn't mean anything at the end of the day if he hasn't told us anything in substance. And that's exactly the point that you're trying to say, if I get it right, that's that content doesn't bring anything new, and 20 years have passed and we say that market conditions are radically different.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93076	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93077	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hajduković, what is the main mantra that always passes through Croatian agriculture analysis that we are not self-sufficient with our production, that we simply did not take advantage of all the potential we have and that these 30 years we operate in a way that we are an extremely import-oriented society and that in fact we favour our own policies for those who import it is most often large capital. The question for you is do you think this strategy can reverse that river we have?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93078	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93079	Thank you, dear colleague Jaksic, we are absolutely not self-sufficient, self-sufficient, probably can't be except for some strategic products, but well that's a different story now. But if you ask me a concrete answer to your question I don't think this strategy can change anything, I don't think there can be a shift in any direction in any good, any bad. This strategy now in simple language brings this to us that we would have because it is obviously both a legislator and by ruling us that the strategy existed, there are no laws they bring, they will bring them, and they don't really care what it says in the strategy because if there is a colleague, Nikolic mentioned it, we want to encourage small and medium then such a seed law or such a law on agricultural land as it is proposed absolutely makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93080	Mr. Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93081	Here is colleague Hajdukovic and you come from Slavonia and I see that you are discussing the strategy, I am interested in your opinion where you see Croatian agriculture for 10 years when you look at the strategy and when you look at the real state of agriculture because the strategy can be well written, I am sure that this strategy is not some under the supposed signs of fools writing, but when you look at the current state of Croatian agriculture and the strategy where you see agriculture in 10 years and whether what the strategies should happen is supposed to bring about really reducing that exodus of our people's emigration from Slavonia or it will continue to continue, and we will again on some census in 10 years have the results that we had a month ago. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93082	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93083	Thank you, fellow Vukas, for the replica. Where do I see if it's a strategy? Well, Croatia will probably feed all of Europe. And if you want reality, I don't have to tell you about it. Here, look at one very handsome show every Sunday, before Sunday at 2 p.m. on HRT. It's called Earth Fruits. ... No, not the fruit of the earth, and the sea goes after. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And in Fruits of the Earth, you have a clear picture of the situation because every weekend I look at it, every week, and there you can see clearly how many problems there are, piled up problems. How many producers complain, as far as everything is really focused on it, I guess they fail, and we can't imagine that our satisfied small producer means life in rural space, means some jobs, even if it's just his family's jobs, or that means life for one rural space. That is, for example, for the east of Croatia, but not just for the east of crucial importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93084	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Mrs. Naughty Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93085	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here is the part you mentioned with the Agricultural Land Act, and we know that exactly the country is the most important segment when we talk about agriculture. And what do we have today? On the one hand, we have this rather ambitious strategy, and while parallel to that, we have a proposal of the Agricultural Land Act that introduces some new criteria and points and actually introduces a shorter period of concessions. Knowing of course that certain i.e. that most cultures require and time to prepare and fertilize actually the soil will be difficult here anyone decides to spend money and actually invest in a country that they themselves are not sure will be available for a period longer than 2 years. Well, here's a little extra of your comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93086	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93087	Thank you, colleague. What I can say is that you're absolutely right about detecting the problem and not just that. Who will want to do more or not to, who will be able to deal with agriculture under such a law? Only those who are close to the authorities, and this is the local one that I don't insult centrally, that we don't object. Or those who have a very, very strong financial backdrop. And we know, unfortunately, our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs don't have any financial backdrops as a rule. And then we question how are we going to dispose of a team of one of our country's major strategic resources? Unfortunately again, bad, bad again, and this strategy is not going to help because the strategy was actually supposed to go the way we wanted to, in which way and then we're going to distribute the land accordingly. We're going backwards, first we're going to pass the law on how we're going to dispose of the resources, then the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93088	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Michel Jaksic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93089	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry, the minister. One more good day, nice hello, everybody. What I must say at the beginning of my debate and what is visible from all the debates so far, is that there is one consensus that we want better to Croatian agriculture and let this strategy be one of those steps. But the question arises, given that we have a 30-year independent state that has so far taken place with this consensus and why we have today’s tones that talk about our year-to-year and our agricultural production falling and we have a lack of self-sufficiency of our own production, we are discussing unfair commercial practice, import lobbyes that are emerging. And when we add it all together and pack it in one package, we have to admit that one part and the collapse of Croatian agriculture has to do with the democratic exodus that we see in the last census. What is going on as a mantra when talking about Croatian agriculture and this is used in every political campaign is used in making each strategy, it is used in each analysis. It always starts with that Croatia has a lot of quality agricultural areas, that we have space with the god given to the agricultural land and that we have people who have shown history through the creation of our food industries that know how to deal with agriculture and who can develop such food production. But that's usually where the story stops and ends. We have years of policy incentives that have made it difficult for us to move towards promoting this productivity until we enter the EU. Let's remember all the machinations and scams we had with the incentives that raised on agricultural land and on capital investments. We've had a story for years that I've already mentioned import lobbies where it's simply created a fam that is cheaper and better to import everything than to have its own production and stand behind it. And all of this has led us to have a situation where, in my mind, three cultures when we talk about warfare, we're self-sufficient with our own production. From a country that has developed a strong industry, one of them is Podravka from my Koprivnica, to a country that is not self-sufficient on the one hand and when you scratch what's left of the Croatian food industry and you ask where our agricultural component is you get a lot of answers we would buy everything we can in Croatia. But if they bought everything we could in Croatia, they wouldn't meet 50% of their needs. And what has contributed to this, is that we no longer have young people who are interested in getting involved in agriculture as well as in this strategy, we haven't given ourselves enough effort to answer what our response is to rural environments, how we want to keep young people there and how we want to bring them back. And when we add everything together and subtract, and a lot of things are mentioned today in all the debates, we have to ask ourselves in the end whether what we're doing right now with a 30-year shift is enough to make it happen in the next 10 years and bring back everything that's gone and gone. We know it's gone a lot. The numbers there are very exact, very precise shows how our production is moving. I can say that from what we've heard so far, what we've had a chance to see in all these years, that in the SDP we're simply afraid that this strategy isn't enough, is not enough to turn around, but it's just to embellish the stagnation that's waiting for us and for the next 10 years, God forbid we're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93090	Thank you very much. Mr. Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93091	Your Honor, you come from our lovely Podravina. Here we read really nice words, plans and wishes in this Strategy. However, can you tell us anything about the catastrophic state of milk production in Croatia, the decline of dairy farmers, our farms. We currently produce about 45% of our needs, meaning 420,000 tonnes or I don't know how, and we drink a lot more why this is not worth it to our farmers today compared to eight years ago before joining the EU. What are they telling you? You're in a relationship with them every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93092	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93093	So what is certain is that our tax and agricultural policies have brought about the situation that we have today that we are truly uncompetitive in the mass of it. What's interesting is that in the covid pandemic, some countries have made a switch very close in their agricultural policies and said they must become self-sufficient as soon as possible. It is always our excuse that we are in the EU to do nothing, so let import lobbys reign. And if we're talking about milking itself on the one hand, the import lobby, on the other, politics from 15, 20 years ago. I wasn't even an adult when people were literally pushing to raise their loans to the Laux stables and everything that was going on at the time, so 95% of them failed, so they took over some banks, so now I don't count which one of the farms where they took over and in Podravina, and we're just led to this situation where we are today, and that's that the dairy industry is going down like that. After all, in the countryside, the main event at night was dairy, and now all the villages have no more dairy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93094	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93095	Dear counterpart Jaksic, when we have been trying to look at the continuity of our agricultural policies for the past 30 years, you mentioned something here that I would like to take a special look at, which is self-sufficiency. Unlike most of the trends that are in agriculture, if we compare the previous Strategy of Agriculture and Fisheries and this one now went worse than detecting almost the same problems that have not changed significantly in the explanation nor today we are some things in 2002. We may have missed, and we haven't been sufficiently focused in the long term, and we're paying our taxes today. Let's just say when you're talking about that self-sufficiency in 2002. We read about it in our strategy how to paraphrasise self-sufficiency should be abandoned and turned to market liberalisation, that it no longer has such weight. And today we are in a crisis political moment where we see that we should have put A larger focus precisely on self-sufficiency. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Have we made a mistake? And what do you do in the future? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93096	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93097	Absolutely, if it weren't just agriculture, it could now spread to a lot of fields, hiding behind liberalisation has brought us both with agriculture and with the food industry and with industry where we are today. What is shown to us in today's world and in the age of inflation has also shown a covid pandemic, that simple liberalisation is not always the solution to all problems, and that however blasphemous it seems in some stages, we must simply be prepared for a stronger intervention of the state if we want to prevent injustice, if we want to prevent poverty, and if we ultimately want to preserve our own production and our own resources. We simply didn't work enough on it, usually when we were drunk off the board, we copied what was sent to us from Europe, and we didn't at first accept that we weren't competitive in the game that we entered. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93098	Thank you. Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93099	Thank you. Dear colleague. It is evident from your speeches today that, like all of us, you wish well for Croatian agriculture and for Croatian farmers, but often people are discouraged about seeking advice and often do not even show up for grant tenders because they believe that they are already intended for some others, so it is for renting and selling agricultural land. For the control of the use of agricultural land owned by the State, a competent agricultural inspection in 2020. She has done 1090 surveillance, brought in 205 solutions and 65 indictments. Do you think that there is sufficient resources for the State Inspectorate or that the local community would do better, and how will this strategy actually contribute to the better use of or usability of agricultural land?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93100	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93101	Well, the resource definitely has enough and I think it would just be better if there was more adequate coordination and communication between local self-government and local communities and the inspectorate itself, because there would be even more and even better results. These figures especially if we know what kind of surfaces are usually being dealt with are definitely devastating and there we are going back to what I mentioned at the beginning of my exposure that unfortunately we have had years of policy incentives exclusively through the surface, not through what has been achieved and we have very many examples that as a bankruptcy mafia appeared to us that a agricultural mafia appeared to us where it was only important to turn up and accumulate as much land as possible on itself, to raise an incentive, and let there grow a schikar there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93102	Thank you. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93103	Dear colleague. When you spoke in the introduction that we have a high quality soil, it reminded me of one remark also when we talked about this strategy and that we also mention that we have a greater conservation of soil and environment than the EU average, that the fact that in Slavonia the ground with humus is less than 1%, which means that it is actually almost infertile and that you have to use large quantities of pesticides, artificial fertilisers to have such production, not to say that irrigation is impossible because it is the soil humus and the one that retains moisture, if you do not have hummus, that water simply passes through that soil. So here's the point of this story that in Slavonia, quality soil may not be exactly true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93104	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93105	Well, I can agree with you on some data and, of course, where there's an increased exploitation that can be a problem in the agricultural country itself. But what has shown us the history of Croatia is that it has always been known to process agricultural areas and that, when there was will, especially in Slavonia, large combinations, large cooperatives that employed very, very many people. And I don't believe it, now I'm throwing myself at one absolute other problem that when we talk about Forten's, there'd be so much yelling, noise and so much Russian and some other investors would scratch for a country that's absolutely worthless and nothing's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93106	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93107	Thank you. So, everything we heard here today does not indicate that the government has decided to change the paradigm of the management of agricultural activity from one that is aimed at a purely market logic to one that would be aimed at planning, planning and planning agriculture literally as other EU countries have and on agriculture that is organised in such a way that our producers can know what their market is and where their market will be. I'll give you an example, if we have Podravka and Podravka says that even if we buy everything there is in Croatia 50% of the needs would have been for the Ministry to sit together with Podravka to plan their needs, recommunicate it to the producers, gather them together, gather them together and give them subsidies. in order for this product to be competitive with respect to what Podravka buys [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And we still don't have that. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] You say you've done irrigation, and no one's come there to produce. [[Intruder Radin: Reply Mr. Jaksic.]] That's the way it's done. [[Do you hear me?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93108	Mrs. Bencic, I'm going to have to give you a heads-up, please, or I won't give you any warning unless the rules of procedure are broken based on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Keep that in mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93109	I absolutely agree with you in everything you said, and I was on one panel not long ago about the future of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia where I said we had a paradox, when Yugoslavia fell apart that what might have been good in that country we destroyed to the ground, and what was wrong we took and picked up more on the N. So we have a situation here that has given up any planning. There is today a good column in a diary about Mr. Stjepan Zdunic, who was the first Croatian social planning minister, and then someone threw it out because that's what brings on communism and it's not good, and everything that happens in these 30 years. shows that we still needed some kind of social planning. It is also very visible through agriculture, through agricultural production, soil status, through irrigation because I think it is a tragedy that an Israel who is not exactly having climate conditions for high-end agriculture has today gone ohho in front of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93110	Thank you. I must confess to this minister that I don't remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93111	I don't remember him either. I was four years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93112	That's mine, that's mine, that's my problem. All right, all right. Mr. Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93113	So if the vice president doesn't remember, then a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93114	No, I certainly don't remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93115	Maybe you're a historian, I don't know. I wanted to refer to something else you said, and I think it's actually cancer of our agricultural production, not to control incentives, so if we have something to encourage, if we have some inputs, then we expect some outputs, and in the end it turns out that the greater the incentives, the higher the production, or the weaker the result, which means in translation for Croatian taxpayers to literally throw money out of the window because we cause something, we probably know why, even though the issue, by reading this strategy we and after it won't know what we are encouraging and why, but not even what we encourage and why we don't control. And then it happens to you that you have plantations that owners let grow into weeds or throats that let wander through the Velebit, and for them they receive the incentives neatly. It's not the future of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93116	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93117	Okay, I have to admit that, especially by entering the EU, some of this is still changing and these controls are going to a higher level, and probably the reason that Europe is also controlling some of the resources that are going through them, but when we talk about incentives, then social transfers and everything we've had in this country so far, let's just say that in a lot of situations this has been used to only be a voting machine for a situation. This was evident in agricultural policies and in incentives. You have this case in Zagreb with the parent-teacher measure. Let's throw a bunch of money out of the helicopter, but don't ask us at the end of the day what the result is and what we've produced and what we've achieved. And that was the policy of Croatian agriculture, the incentives grew year after year, it wasn't just going to land, it was going for capital investment for tractors, and then in one village they all bought tractors and got me thinking 50% of the state, and our production and contribution fell from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93118	Thank you. And the last replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93119	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues, while they solve tractors, things aren't as simple as that. So we would still like to talk about the role of the state in all this, but what prompted me to the replica is something else. You are coming from the city and you are the mayor of the city where for the development of that city, for the development of all that space I would dare say the great role and importance of Podravka. So, the great role and significance of a factory that was created right there and it didn't happen to be there, it was tied up and where actually this whole sub-level part of it had a certain shift where it was tied up and absolutely related to production related to Podravka. I often wonder why we sometimes get the feeling that everything that was before is no good and life starts with us and now we're going to start over. Why don't we move on with some of the experiences we've had?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93120	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93121	Well, I would now make a distinction between the private sector, which is mostly the state of Podravka. Not now with the intention of defending Podravka, but there is now an important role of the state because it expects Podravka to take all of this on itself, and it is competing on the market and it is very, very difficult on the European and world market. There's an important role for the state because a good example you set, the Podravka is 30 years ago. I hired 12,000 people, today I'm hiring 6,400. During that period, a sub-level economy that had a pile of its own land and a pile of its own processing was torn apart, so all the cooperatives, something small was returned, Podravka's farms disappeared, at one of those stages was shut down and the slaughterhouse was now away from about 30, somewhere 20, somewhere 10 years ago. We ask why we're not self-sufficient and where it's all gone. So because it's been destroyed, and no one's intervened, wait, you can't do that if the interest of the state is different.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93122	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93123	It is interesting to follow this debate on agriculture, at one point it turned into local patriotism and everyone advertised products from their neighborhood, and we talked less about the strategy itself. I'm going to try to say something here about a strategy with an emphasis on the part that relates to organic production. In this sense, I find it important to point out some of the things that are listed in this strategy, which can also be said in contrast to what used to happen when we talk about legal changes that should encourage environmental policies. For example, here we are talking about encouraging organic production and the fact that relevant EU and national acts of strategic planning will be taken into account in this area. And it will also encourage the use of local genetic resources, for example. domestic and domestic breeds and varieties. Now we can remember what happened before, what kind of debate we had and the policy on the adoption of the new Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, where only after the great pressure of almost united opposition and certain seed and association producers were decided to amend the first legislative proposal so that at least some protection of our seed would be protected. When we talk about our Agricultural Strategy, when we compare what we were thinking about in 2002 about the previous strategy, what we are talking about today is that we were all hoping that we would be saved by market liberalisation and that we had overcome the self-sufficiency that was supposed to be the rest of the past. But what happened to us today after the experience of market liberalisation. We've had a lot of things happen. We have not developed self-sufficiency, and at the same time we are defending ourselves from that same market. For example, when we talk about the current chaos our farmers need to have special care not to create rules different from those that have other countries in the environment, because this puts our food sovereignty in an unfavourable position on the common European market. Likewise, when we talk about what I asked my previous colleague, Petir, which is how we will manage our agricultural land, we see that we are running out of a yard of agricultural land sales, and at the same time there are legislative changes that are going towards the fact that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first purchased agricultural land that should be treated by mistake, but even private land against which many associations have justifiably rebelled. So after that stream of liberalisation, we are now in a position to defend ourselves against this same liberalisation. When we talk about organic production and what stands out within this strategy that we should follow the relevant EU and national strategic planning acts, then we can notice that within the EU we are talking about increasing areas under ecological production to 25% of the area that Croatia is obliged to monitor. And where are we currently in the usability of our land when we talk about organic production? It is an interesting cynicism of this strategy where it is said that greater conservation of soil and the environment compared to the EU average provides a basis for the spread of organic agriculture especially on abandoned agricultural land. Now imagine the fact that we have not processed agricultural land has become our comparative advantage that will enable us to develop organic production. On the other hand, when we talk about organic production and these 25%, it is important to mention that although organic production in the share of agricultural land is growing in 2013 it was 2.59% and 2019. 7.18%. We're still far, far from the desired goal. Environmental production is certainly the future, certainly something that has more added value and helps preserve agricultural land, but I should like to note that I would also like to hear the opinion of the Minister of Resort that it cannot be taken on purpose alone. And what the cattle associations warn of, and within this debate, that the proposed aid redistribution measures, and the eco-production commitment can shut down their production. So there is obviously a problem of conflict between what our cattle associations are able to produce and what we want as some world trends, and even when we talk about ecological trends. production that is extremely important. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93124	Mr. Bull, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93125	You're talking about organic production. Unfortunately, Croatia is mostly not modelled or planted. Mostly the village is extinct, so all these support incentives didn't give any results, they didn't give unexpected results, they gave no results. They did not give unexpected results, but no results so that this strategy should be dedicated to prohibiting products treated with liposta... Not to our environmental producers, to ban GMOs entirely except for medical purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I gave and gave these two laws in the procedure as early as 2020 in the 7th month, there was no debate as well as a ban on the sale of agricultural land. Now they'll say we can't. We got a moratorium once. How can Croats not buy agricultural land in Hungary and in the European Union? The question arises whether we are equal in the EU or whether only the government is taking advantage of Monsanta and multinational companies. That's the question, are we sovereign?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93126	Thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93127	Currently, at the level of change across Europe, there is a debate on three regulations. One is about placing on the market seeds and other repromation, the other is about plant health, and the third is about genetically modified organisms. So, I would very much like to hear when we talk about these directives and policies now taking place at EU level what the position of the Republic of Croatia will be, and I think we should keep that previous position, and since it is talking about changing these regulations now it is important to reiterate this, including new techniques of genetic manipulation for us, are not acceptable as well as new administrative burdens such as mandatory registration of genetic diversity guardians, restrictions on the exchange of seeds that will further burden, demotize, weaken our domestic seed producers, which is extremely important because this is the beginning of agriculture. And therefore, our cultures are created that we can then preserve and continue to manipulate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93128	Thank you. Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93129	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, the strategy mentions the promotion of organic production through various support, as well as covering the costs of transition to practice, the methods of organic production, that investments in infrastructure will be complemented. However, according to this Agricultural Land Act, what we will soon have in the second reading is the development of organic production that is conditioned as a criterion with a minimum of 25% of total surface area, and in order to get all the thin five points. This is our Croatian reality while the rest of Europe is turning to exactly that kind of production. Finally, Croatia has committed a new signed CAP. Therefore, such a score at only 5 points for this type of production is totally demotive, humiliating both for existing eco-producers and for all other future producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93130	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93131	I agree with you especially if we have in mind the fact that we are really far from these desired 25% as I have stated in this data. So we are now at about 7%, which means we need to increase the agricultural land we use almost 4 times for organic production to achieve the desired goal. However, what concerns me, and what I would like to hear from the resolution minister, also refers to this part that expresses concern, which is associations of different cattle associations which believe that such a shift towards organic production will damage them and that they cannot compete there. I would remind you that we had a similar gas situation when we boasted, or Prime Minister Plenkovic within the EU, that we are turning to sustainable energy sources and that we are no longer interested in gas at the 10th month, and now that this crisis has started we see and how much gas we need and how dependent we are on it. So I'm absolutely ecological, but we also need to respect the real needs and see where it's ecologically problematic. or a disturbance to our producers to any cattlemen, to any other agricultural producers. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93132	Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93133	Dear colleagues from your debate and the replicas you have given so far have shown that you have made an effort to make comparison between the old strategy and the one proposed today, and we have witnessed that over the past 30 years the policy towards agriculture has led to a reduction in production, that we have fewer family economies, that practically people have moved out of the area where agriculture is happening and my question is relatively simple. Do you see in this strategy anything that will change these trends that are happening in the Republic of Croatia? You were saying something about organic farming. It's not slow organic farming. It's a dispute to which you're going to sell the product and who's going to make the product at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93134	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93135	I agree. This is the part that relates to the liberalisation of the market where we saw that in time we were trying to go with trends, but we did not see the dangers that await us with this liberalisation. And now that we need to get back to self-sufficiency, we have nowhere to go. If I compare these two strategies, I must even say that I prefer this one because it is clearer and more concrete. There are a lot more data available to read a description of the situation, and this strategy we're talking about right now is a lot more space in general than something you can really catch up on except as a list of beautiful desires. And now that you're asking me where I see it maybe some shift is hard for me to tell because it's quite general and then unlike these tables that are more legible where you have some more concrete outcomes and figures. And then I really can't tell if it's going to be done on purpose, so... can't check that effect later. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93136	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Selak Rasudić, the European Court of Auditors has reported that half of the money spent on climate change mitigation is spent precisely within the framework of the common agricultural policy, but no progress has been seen in the last 10 years except for 3 countries, which are Greece, Lithuania and Croatia, and the reason is that there has been a reduction in the number of dairy cows. It is my impression from your debate that you are not happy with the measures proposed in the strategy nor when it comes to strengthening climate resistance nor when it comes to increasing productivity. So I'm interested in what measures you think should be taken to increase productivity, to at least keep the number of dairy cows at the same level, and on the other hand to successfully respond to climate policy requirements and reduce greenhouse gas emissions which are a serious threat because in Croatian agriculture they account for 11.4% and Croatian agriculture with 11.4% contributes to the total emissions Glue gases [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93139	So this is not a question of my pleasure or dissatisfaction. In my debate, I focused more on the use of agricultural land and organic production. This is a question of the way in which this document is developed or some outcomes that we can expect as a consequence of these documents, and here is my assessment that those other than some principled assumptions are not clearly worked out enough to say that such policies will have a certain effect or that such policies will not lead to the desired result. In that sense, I am critical of this document, and otherwise I do not have great expectations of strategies as such because they are naturally full of things in general, so also with this strategy in many ways and what you are talking about solving this problem can be concretely agreed on. But it's not just a question of whether I can agree on what I'm interested in is practice. If there are cattle associations who complain that they may be damaged by this shift towards ecologicals to see where the problem lies And what can be done that they do not feel the burden of any [[Intruder: Time.]] more positive policies towards which Croatia is also turning this strategy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93140	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, Mr. Niksha Vukas is on the move now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93141	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with the so-called There's only the secretary of state, so when we listen to the whole debate today, I can agree that there are elements in the strategy that are good. But what I have stated in the individual debate, I believe that the strategy is at least three years late, that the objectives of the strategy are a little outdated and that our agriculture is not at the stage of development if we combine it with the strategy that is written. And now that we take that aside, when we look at this strategy and see if this strategy today will improve anything in the sectors. Will it improve the status of our milkmen? He won't. Will it improve the status of our OPGs or the d.o.o. that deal with these heroes? He won't. Will it improve the status of farmers dealing with your pig? He won't. And they're real problems. And then from the discussion of how people replicate we come up with a lot of things to see that this strategy that will eventually be voted not to solve anything but maybe even make things more complicated. And then we have a colleague, Ivanovic, who says we have 17 projects of the irrigation system and none of them are operational. Well, of course, the strategy will cover it on paper, find some fund or bank that will fund the irrigation system, someone will take the money for the equipment, the bank will take the interest, and in the end we don't have any agricultural companies or the OPG where this irrigation system will be implemented. And that's what I'm saying, it's not certain that this strategy was written by some fool, so I'm sure the strategy was written by experts, but our agriculture is not on this development. We look at dairy, so we have the potential not to import milk, but we import it, we have the potential not to import pork, but we import it, we have the potential not to import June, but we import it, and we still write strategies. So we must once make plans for what we need in Croatia, how much we can produce, who we will produce it to and who we will eventually sell it to. In '23. We're taking off the moratorium for sale of agricultural land, so it's our last chance to preserve our national interest strategically, to see where this country comes in. We see what happened to Agrokora that thousands and thousands of acres came under who? Under Russian banks. What are we gonna do about that land tomorrow? It's easy to write strategies, so I'm going to find 20 consultants who, for those money he paid, will write a top strategy, and I can't say that there are no good things in that strategy, but unfortunately, we've killed our agriculture since the beginning, from the privatisation of agricultural combinations, from the distribution of agricultural land. So how many changes did we have to make to the Agricultural Land Act? And what if we were to make a balance on our farm, we only have warlords who are satisfied because the mercantile has been collected. And what did we kill? As soon as the price of the mercantile was high, we killed cattle production, we killed these corn-stealers who had to produce corn to feed the cattle to sell the junetine must go down to minus because it would be easier for them to sell corn, taken the money that year. And what happens next year? No one knows, so agriculture is seen for five years, average prices are seen for five years. So I can say that we didn't use the planning in time, we didn't in time encourage sectoral agricultural policies, there's no action plans, and we should have already by sector-based action plans where and how help producers to stay at all. He mentioned counterpart Hajdukovic's "Flowings of the Land" show, when we listen to the Minister of Agriculture super, flowers, everything is great but then cancel the "Foods of the Earth" show so that people don't see it, that we have no problems. And every time I get sick in my stomach when I watch this show or the troubles have pigs or problems have people who can't come into possession of agricultural land or problems have beekeepers and then finally of all these strategic plans we bring in a brilliant proposal to change the fruit material, that and some enthusiasts who are practically small in the share of agricultural production to bring them to an end. So what kind of strategies do we bring that our agriculture is that coffee? And the best situation in Croatian agriculture has shown you the population list and you have to imagine where this agriculture is going. If anything else we can get these people to sell that country better in '23.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93142	Thank you. You have the replicas of Mr. Vukas. The first line has Mrs. Vazčak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93143	Dear colleague Vukas. Here's what you said earlier today in the club's presentation on behalf of the club, and that's exactly what's left for me, you said we have a document on 150 pages and weighs 2 kg. But here's the main question is whether this document, this strategy, does it satisfy what it needs to be a purpose and does it actually give a framework and direction in which we want and need it? How much is she actually applicable on the ground? And like you, I have the impression that those who represent her and those who came here today have kind of figured out that as a task that needs to be written and presented just to satisfy the form and that somehow we can say that we have a strategy. How much activity are mentioned in your opinion, and they are quite ambitious, how much are they actually feasible and will it lead to the goal of full or at least the benefits of our natural and human potentials that we have as a country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93144	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93145	When you look at the consultants who wrote the strategy and I would close their eyes and you wouldn't know anything about Croatian agriculture, you would say that the strategy is okay, but when we look at that strategy as unimplemented and my grudge is that I said in an individual debate or I may not have seen it, we should do field research to cover the producers, to make one survey that exactly people say what they need, where they can be helped, where they need to be intervened. Well, you can't write a strategy from the Ministry without going out in the field. Well, I've had contact with the Ministry there when you go, you have to drink Normabelle if you mean a normal exit. Well, there's no one there who knows the answer to anything, this one's afraid of the boss, this one has no opinion, this one's gonna give you something wrong, so it's a disaster. So is there a problem that a peasant goes to the Faculty of Agriculture has five experts who just want to write a study, no one's going to help a man. It's a good strategy, but it's inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93146	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93147	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, I've got to fix you up a little bit. Not even the warlords are happy anymore. Unfortunately, the fertilisers went 300%, the machinery collected at least 30%, used machinery and equipment collected 30%, collected spare parts, collected labour in agriculture, collected combination services and various services in agriculture, so that even those who have been really satisfied these years are no longer and it seems that we are no longer satisfied with the situation in Croatian agriculture, that everyone will now be complaining, and perhaps we will finally have tractors on the road again, and that someone is wondering that the situation is really wrong. I think you've shown some things well, and this planning, let's watch when something is planned then visible and expect something after that. And you know where fish best hunts in what water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93149	Well, if today's prices aren't good enough, then we're only in a major disaster. I'm trying to get to the price of mineral fertilizer as far as their threshold is, 20 days ago, he couldn't even answer, but he must have picked it up three times. And these are the costs that simply if something doesn't happen here, if something doesn't happen, if something doesn't intervene, if some vouchers don't come true, then the warlords can't pay for it. And then they're gonna pay for it at the agricultural pharmacy and they're gonna go down, and they're gonna wait for the incentives to beat it up a little bit, and then after that, they're gonna be in charge of the next year, and so we're gonna have tape from year to year, and we're gonna have saddots on the Earth's Fruits show. Well, it's not good. It doesn't matter now, there were SDP ministers I won't praise anyone there, there were as many governments as there were, but let's just forget about the ideology and the parties and try to help Croatian agriculture. Well, this isn't good, and we're writing strategies, we're paying, and we're still bringing some of those running boxes to impress you I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93150	Thank you. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93151	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, so all the time I've been through these strategies and everyone thinks it's starting over, like there's nothing before and every time we go over and over again and I don't know how long we're gonna go. I had opportunities, therefore, to deal with spatial planning to compare Croatia's cards on February 15, '68, not there very many years ago, but not so far away because I was interested in the way in which certain spaces were converted into building areas, these were air footage. And then I actually remained found when it was seen that Croatia was then processed. And when you compare these surfaces didn't turn into building areas, but those surfaces ate non-processing land and actually maquis, not forests, not non-quality forests, but agation or I don't know what not, so that and that would be something that should be our alarm and see what we do to make at least part of it. return that land to agricultural land. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93152	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93153	Well, you've given me good news now, because if you go to land books and catastres and you go to future agricultural land distribution competitions, then you'll find an x-hectare of chicares that will be sold under agricultural land. And people will be happy to get a chicare. And go to neighboring countries, go to Italy, go to France, go where you will go and see what they look like both on the highway and out of the air. And this agriculture and all these action plans remind me of Minister Horvat and the restoration of Banovina. We're gonna write, we're gonna write, we're gonna write, and nothing in practice is going to be done to help these people that put this all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93154	And Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93155	Dear colleague Vukas, I must react to one of your allegations, which is exactly the indication of the fruit material. So here's how much I remember, and you're a member of the Agriculture Committee we've had so far or before us 50th session of the Committee on Agriculture, we've had several thematic sessions, and as far as I know, the ministry has practically all the proposals and chambers and associations have absorbed all the opposition proposals, even some members of the opposition have rebelled that how this is now being accepted. So it's not exactly true that the ministry and this government did something wrong with the fruit material. I just don't know you as a member of the Agriculture Committee if you've been to those sessions, here's the one you know, but we've been having a lot of discussion about it, and it's absolutely absolute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93156	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93157	Oh, that's a great question. Well, I'm not the one to say when something is accepted that it's not good, but it's a shame and a tragedy what's come. So look at the public debate about how much criticism has come to this law. Well, it's you, it's your generator, so it was chaos. Well, I was on a round table that these organizations organized in the university library, so people got on their feet, why, so people who were paid at the ministry would have done it if they had made chaos. Well, that's what I'm saying. Well, it would be a shame for me to be a secretary of state or a minister with such a bill to go before the parliament, let alone to Croatian producers. And now you're boasting that you referred and said that we were under the supposed signs of stupidity, so we wrote what was lame. So how can you get up in the first place and now you're telling me to nail you? Well, that was a disaster. It turned out fine, great, you accepted, but that's why we've been losing all day and arguing and in the first reading, you turned down all the amendments, and then in the second reading, you came to your senses overnight. and said we were wrong. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93158	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93159	The Honorable Chairman, a respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, is ahead of us with the proposal for a strategy in agriculture by 2030, a strategy that passed public consultation where it was for 30 days, according to my knowledge of 100 comments. It's a significant document in which we always talk about this speaker, how important it is. When we talk about agriculture, we have to say three important things. That this is a human activity that is important for the lives and nutrition of people and persons of industry, industry. The export function of agriculture also has a significant function in achieving as much foreign exchange inflow as possible but we must do with this strategy all so that our agricultural producers are satisfied, that they can live normal rather than just survive from their own and that quality agricultural products come to the shelves of the trade chains, and if they are lucky that one part goes out of the Republic of Croatia. Critics will say nothing has been done so far, but we still have to be honest and say how much in these crisis situations that have been since the pandemic the Ministry of Agriculture invested and put into agriculture. She mentioned the secretary of all these numbers, I won't repeat them. I'm from Međimurje County and I'll say, for example, in the Centre for the Production of Potatoes in Belica invested in 11 modern warehouses over 45 million kuna, but one piece of information is important and important that we must remember. Of these 11 were all three producer organisations, which I think is bad because our agricultural producers should connect to be stronger, stronger and competitive on the market. Also, a package of government measures to ease price growth due to energy collection has brought agriculture if I'm not mistaken for 250 million kunas, where 200 million will go to help buy artificial fertilisers and 50 million to fish. The vision of agriculture I think is harmonised and that more high-quality food should be produced at competitive prices, maintained and managed by natural resources in this I will say complex and variable climate conditions and contribute to improving the quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. The strategic vision for agriculture in this strategy has been developed through several objectives, which are to increase the competitiveness and resilience of agricultural production to climate change, strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, restore the rural economy and improve living conditions in rural areas, and encourage innovation in the agricultural food sector. Each of the strategic objectives is linked to some of the development needs of Croatian agriculture. I support this strategy, but we must not forget the problems here. We have to be realistic. I grew up in a rural family that worked in agriculture, it was never easy in agriculture, it was always hard to work, be wise, be smart, and finally add up to succeed at the end of the year. And that is why I believe that the application of this strategy will satisfy agricultural producers and that they will be able to live properly from their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93160	Thank you. Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93161	Thank you very much. My colleague Kolarek, I have already pointed out in my debate that Croatian farmers are mostly small 70% there, that only 0.23% of them are in cooperatives, and that less than 8% of the producers are listed in the register of agricultural insurance that ensure their production. Insurance is mostly used by medium and large manufacturers. We know that our small producers mostly work in the open and depend on climate conditions or weather, he gave it drought, he gave it that, so I'm interested in how to motivate these small producers to simply engage and to manage their finances themselves, is that very important to them for their further production? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93162	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93163	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, the truth is, I personally think we have too few agricultural producers joining together, that's number one. Second, insurance, for a time I remember Međimurje County covered 50% of the amount of insurance for farmers, farmers, agricultural areas etc. And I think that maybe we in the local community, too, and I believe that there's a way and a measure at the ministry level to help a little team of small ones think about securing their crops, their surfaces to have one safety in their production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93164	Mr. Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93165	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Kolarek. You are coming and you yourself said from Međimurje County, the northwestern part of our Croatia where I am from the neighboring Koprivnica-križevci County and I know about what problems our cattlemen and warlords face. The plot of land and depravity is one big problem, I believe, especially with you at a small space in Međimurje County, perhaps a slightly smaller problem in our neighbouring Koprivnica-Kristevina County from which I come. But actually, my question is going towards livestock, but it's also about wartime itself. So, I know that perading is the main branch of livestock in your county and there's a series of cooperatives and carriers of cooperative production, how do they actually deal with these problems in this situation and what do you expect from a package of government that's just been passed, and you yourself said it's good?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93166	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93167	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is one in all of Međimurje, and I believe in northern Croatia rarely where you will find unprocessable land. We have the land I'll say 95% processed. They're smaller surfaces and one day I'm gonna tell the compatriots it could be rounded up. As far as agricultural production itself is concerned, it is true that the development of poultry production is quite large, there are many farms because it is the organizer of the poultry production of Perutinina, Pipo and Koka a very large number of co-operatives with a very large number of production. I hope that these measures will help them to be more secure in that part, and that the price of the repromaterials, or that the price of the corn will not rise, because as soon as the price of corn falls, the gain per kilogram of yields to them and I hope that these measures will stop it, and that they will eventually come to their satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93168	I'm sorry, I didn't see, I'm sorry. Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93169	Thank you, Vice President. Colarek, these days, funds are being paid to farmers from the direct payment programme, which is the means to be allocated to Croatian farmers to ensure the stability of agricultural income. Total funds through original payments are 2.9 billion kuna. Do you feel that this aid that is now being paid to farmers will make it easier for them to obtain more expensive repromation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93171	Well, surely look to the farmers is spring, preparation for the sowing, and every kuna that comes as an incentive by the ministry is very important and important that those on these not very simple occasions when the price of repromation went up to keep the quality of their land, to make quality work of the land and to offer particular wheat, corn, key I will tell the cereals for the Republic of Croatia not to fall. It is, I'm personally afraid that because of the situation as it is that it would not fall, but if these days there is a payoff, if the ministry will help in the purchase, or co-finance the price of artificial fertiliser, I think it will succeed in stabilising.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93172	Thank you. And in the end Mrs. Maric saw a video connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93173	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kolarek, the issue of organic production in Međimurje, from which we both come. Unfortunately, there are few ecological producers in Međimurje, you can really count them on the fingers of one hand OPG Lisjak, OPG Siladaj, a small event in Lower Dubrava and you know... organic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has potential, wants to work, needs for organic products. However, to meet environmental producers, potential environmental producers. On the one hand, the availability of funds has something through European funds, something through lies. There's something through the Rural Development Program. Here I came across recently and a call from the area of the town of Čakovec, however which are... Obstacles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say that given the development of our municipalities, they actually get negative points when the funds are allocated, and then they want to round up the land but they come across obstacles linked to state land. Do you think this strategy will help organic production in Međimurje?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93174	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93175	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric, I think Međimurje is specific. We're quite densely populated and the farmland is very large. Specific conditions are required for organic production. The fact that we're in the tall city of Prelog is in the sixth degree of development, so there's a lot of trouble about the score here and there. Everything and sublegal acts should be done to enable our organic producers to enter a level playing field with other producers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to have the same conditions on the market. I personally believe that organic production must be even better promoted in public, and then, with the help of certainly local self-government, let us not forget to lift that right. and level. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93176	Thank you very much, Mr. Kolarek. Now it's Mr. Marin Chicken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93177	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Like any strategy, whether it is brought by the Croatian Parliament or any other public authority, it is actually just a framework for public policy measures and activities aimed at the development of a particular sector. So frame. Today, however, we have heard that this strategy has recognised the potential for the growth of agricultural production, among other things, in digitisation. The strategy is with stakeholders in the sector... as a strategic goal of Croatian agricultural policy to encourage innovation in the agricultural and food sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the six groups of all activities and implementation mechanisms of the strategy is the integration of agricultural knowledge and innovation. In a number of its publications, the FAO warns that compared to 2010 global food production should be increased by 70% by 2050 in order to feed the world's growing population despite the fact that the percentage of farmed areas cannot be significantly increased, and given the reduced biodiversity of the planets, the question is whether or not it can be. However, in achieving these objectives, as well as the objectives of this strategy, digitisation can help. Digitalisation of agricultural holdings can reduce production risks, improve productivity, increase business income and increase profitability, as well as strengthen farmers in achieving all the objectives and activities of this strategy, but also digitisation can affect consumer protection, which allows for the transparent traceability of products that come into the market. And here I want to share some information with you. Using the experience of Croatian farmers and farmers, a group of young informers and programmers originally from Sisak-Moslavina County designed a digital tool and software solution AGRIVI, which greatly paved the way for the transformation of the process in agriculture and food industry. Croatian knowledge translated into software tools has become one of the world's best solutions that enables smart technologies to obtain data from fields, manage the risks of production and affect the profitability of agricultural economies. In larger agricultural entities, the use of this application or digital tool shows results already in the first year of use and affects an increase in profitability by more than 10%. In smaller family economies, the proper application of this digital agricultural technology can be profitablely increased by more than 50%. The evaluation of the evaluators of these software solutions is that only a day late with agritechnical measures can affect the reduction of 1% of the annual profits of the agricultural economy. And where's the problem or a better word of challenge? These Croatian knowledge and smart solutions use much more of the United Arab Emirates than they do with us. That is why this Agriculture Development Strategy until 2030. Emphasises the development needs of 14 and 15 in which it says that we should strongly encourage investment in technology and innovation, and also improve access to research and development, and use of knowledge and technology in agricultural production. Agriculture has always been a demanding branch of the economy, some agricultural colleagues have said, always will, and if you find only discussions on the development of agriculture 100 years ago. in HS, the same sentences were said today in this home. Agriculture will always have its problems and challenges, but in today's climate change situation more than ever. However, if public policies were not committed to addressing the problem and accepting the challenge, more than one hundred million kunas of grants would not have been agreed in the past few years in the Sisak-Moslavina County where agricultural economies have been modernised, thus only in the last year more than 500 families in the area of this county have decided to continue to deal successfully with agriculture. If agriculture had not been challenging in the last few years only in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County area under the ARCOD, it would have increased by more than 5,000 hectares, as well as by increasing the number of pension insurance insurance providers from the base of agriculture, the number of jobs will say exactly from the base of agriculture. It's not all about agriculture, it's about green and digital. Time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93178	Time's up, and now it's time for the replicas, time for the replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The respected colleague, science and technology you spoke of today, with the personal involvement of farmers, are the key to small farmers' development. I believe it is necessary in implementing this strategy to improve the financing of these very small projects of small producers, especially young farmers. When I talk to farmers, especially young people who are growing up in the carlovakia county I come from, they are very supportive of this way of financing small projects for young farmers. What do you think about those of you who come from Sisak-Moslavina, we are close to the county, we have a lot of characteristics in common, so I'm curious about the opinion of young farmers in your area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93180	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93181	So, thank you very much, colleague, only in my neighborhood, so there is almost no week for any of the young people not to start an OPG and not to decide with all their activities so far to devote themselves to agriculture. However, I also stressed in the debate that digitalisation and digital transformation are very crucial. In addition to all these difficulties and challenges that Croatian agriculture, not only Croatian but all other things, we must move forward with time. That's where we expect the most from the very young people we offer these tools to. So you heard from the Minister this morning and from the Minister that through the National Recovery Plan, measures and activities will be defined so that our agricultural economies can master information technologies and apply exactly the kind of smart solutions that the Croatian mind has produced and sold around the world, the largest food chains. the most famous brands to apply, so [[Intruder: Time]] knowledge and.. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93182	- Mrs. Crescent. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93183	... Vice President. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Kolega Pilletić, and this Agriculture Strategy are also designed for measures of rural development or rural development programme and for improving living conditions in rural areas. So here you are as mayor of the city of Novska you have consumed certain measures of rural development so far and you have built both kindergartens and miles of roads and homes etc. from which you can see an improvement in the conditions in our rural areas. So here is the strategy that will also allow us to continue to develop our villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93184	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93185	So our farmers today have all the needs like all other citizens, so use cultural facilities, use school and preschool facilities in their places are usually villages. There was one interesting case, therefore, of a farmer who came to talk to me and told the children in the city center to roll, and ours in the countryside, they can't skate in the country. So they too have some need for municipal infrastructure that all local self-government units need to provide. Thanks to precisely measure 741 and therefore the funds provided by the government by all units of local self-government that can report to this tender have improved the municipal and social infrastructure. So not only create frameworks to make these farmers more productive, to produce more, but also to live by all the standards that we have learned so far. And that's why the villages need kindergartens and libraries, cultural centres and everything we can measure 741 and realized. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93186	Mrs. Big Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93187	Thank you. Dear colleague Piletić so here you come from Novska from a place that we can say is somehow that the door of Slavonia and indeed here you have a role as a unit of local self-government in this, in the digital industry. Since you are on the threshold of Slavonia then you probably know both the real and real state and the situation in agriculture, and since we have heard earlier from the right-hand side of the reacting assembly that agriculture does not affect demographics, I will ask you whether you actually agree with it or still see the impact on each other because you have just looked back on this topic on this digital part. Here is your reference to this question, because it is clear that the situation is currently not good or demographical, nor agricultural, because here is the moment still if we look at the usability we know that we are still importing almost EUR 900 million of agricultural products more than we are exporting. Here, I really see this connection, so I'm asking your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93188	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93189	Thank you very much, not that we may be the door of Slavonia, but we certainly are, and I hope whenever you pass through Novska to say we're home to Slavons. So, as for the connection between agriculture and demographics, of course we can bring it together. However, all of the world’s forecasts of analysts, demographics, urbanists say that today’s population wants to live in the city. By 2050, therefore, nearly 80% of the population will live in cities, urban areas, even if villages are only a few kilometers away from urban centres. It's a simple tendency, and it's not necessarily or closely related to the state of agriculture. However, our agriculture must be modernised, allow agricultural economies to follow these digital trends, and simply to connect through digital platforms be closer to both urban centres and world markets. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93190	Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93191	As Mayor, as Mayor, you are always present on the ground and you are solving the problem of your citizens, and among other things you are certainly involved in the problem of agriculture. In what way do you do it, have you formed agriculture, are you thinking about going into the comassion that is being prepared and that is about to go and do you have any support that you give to farmers and how they are affecting the farmers of your city?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93192	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93193	Thank you, fellow Yankee, and you think I should answer all that in a minute, hard. Of course I'm following the state of agriculture as one of the most important economic branches in the local self-government unit I come from. Of course we're responsible for implementing the State Agricultural Land Act. Of course, we also provide additional support for our farmers working in our area. Of course, in accordance with the existing law, we formed agricultural redistribution and allowed all those parcels that were not used by culture to be used, the owners were warned, therefore, that as they have their right to have obligations. So a lot of agricultural land is private, and so is the state land, so it's detached, it's tight, and we simply have an obligation as direct law enforcement officers to do it. We only do this in the last year over 200 hectares of abandoned agricultural parcels was cleaned up in the town of Novska just thanks to the agricultural directorship. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93194	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about a digital AGRIVI tool, which Matija Žulj from Kutina well placed on foreign markets, won numerous world recognitions, and in Croatia is still relatively poor use. So you said that we actually have knowledge, we have instruments, but we have to put it into service somehow to give added value to our agriculture. Also, a good example from Sisak-Moslavina County is a short supply chain of food, it is a Full Ceker who, with the Međimurje Stacun, is actually the only known example that the European Commission knows when we talk about short food supply chains in Croatia, and we know that manufacturers who participate in short food supply chains earn more than 8 thousand EUR more than those who do not use such chains. So how do such positive examples that give an exact profit because it is evident that the profits are much higher in some way also to the rest of Croatia and achieve the objectives of this strategy that by 2030 we will have at least 30% of the producers involved in the short food supply chains.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93196	How to rephrase, so here I invite you as president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture to organise a committee in our county, present everything we have done so both jointly and individually and through the activities of Sisak-Moslavina County as well as individual units of local self-government. So what you said about the owners and drivers of the system, the digital platform AGRIVI of Mr. Žulja, is actually amazing how much we have a good product that uses world agricultural corporations, which use so many farms around the world, and that it is still not sufficiently presented, through this knowledge that they have adopted in the experiences of Croatian farmers and translated into one digital platform, hired over 40 young programmers, increased the productivity of Croatian agriculture, showed that it can therefore be an example that in HS certainly deserves attention, not to say that everything is black and bad. There are bright positive examples, and I think this pay phone is exactly the place to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93197	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93198	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. The strategy sets out development needs, goals and priorities, and since you said agriculture isn't all so black, it has green, it has digital. Agriculture is a difficult and demanding branch, it's not easy and easy to deal with agriculture, it's hard work. In Slavonia, there are every assumption that young people deal with agriculture, that they create added value, they are, of course, our future and we should encourage them to do so. This government put agriculture high on its priority scale. Can local policy also help to preserve more young people, to stay engaged in agriculture, to stay engaged in rural areas of course in Slavonia, but also in other parts of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93199	So, absolutely, I believe that, and it does, if no one else does that then we do it here in Nov and through the Development Agency... and through our Novvian Development Agency Nor we motivate and help young people who decide to deal with agriculture to have free consulting services in order to just use rural development measures, to use grants to strengthen their agricultural economies, to get new machinery, to be as competitive and productive as possible. So, absolutely fellow Vukas says, young people don't get along. There are a whole series of development agencies, local units, and a county that can very much help young people find their way into agriculture to find a niche they want to deal with and of course to realize what fellow Petir was saying, so the biggest possible profit in dealing with certain agricultural branches and using these are millions of kunas of grants that our farmers have available all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93200	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93201	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's the last debate I've proposed two solutions for the club of MPs, but this other one didn't come out. So, the first solution that could be made by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the OPGs that are not in the VAT system, are those OPGs about 25, 30 hectares to free them from VAT on re-promatter, purchase of machinery and equipment. Another is to increase the market competitiveness of smaller OPGs to co-finance or finance the storage of products in silos or freezers where they could keep the product until the price rises and become more competitive on the market with a higher price. Unfortunately, climate change is what is inevitable, they are there, only who can. aid to agricultural producers is science with its work through studies, experiments and finding new solutions to mitigate these climate change. But what's missing in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think it's worked out with this strategy, is the transfer of that science to the manufacturer. We miss that link that doesn't work enough because manufacturers are not all able to read scientific papers and figure out what would be the solution in these scientific papers to help them. Therefore, someone who will explain and turn into a technological process what we should do to mitigate these climate change. One of the things is the irrigation they're talking about, the programs they've been working on. What is the biggest problem for our producers is the waterfall, the moment you have solved our water supply with very cheap solutions that have been applied and in Israel are getting rid of irrigation, especially in vegetable and fruit production. Watercraft could be improved if through a free concession that is not even big now, but through easy approval, it allowed farmers and economies to drill deep wells. I'm the only one in the Kutina who has a concession on a simple irrigation well, that amount is very little money, but the deep wells that can no longer drill are quite a voluntary cost, and I think both the ministry and the government could through co-financing drilling and a very simple concession to help reduce these climate support. It is clear to me that support for the CAP is per hectare, but last year, however, we were asked by the agency to show our production in kilograms. I know there is a possibility, but if it isn't made today, why should we only listen to the EU and the CAP for which support is paid? Why can't we keep a parallel record of kilograms, liters of what we produce, and based on that record, we'd have clearer indicators of where our production is going. How do we protect our production that is burdened by accumulated climate change? It's not easy and it should protect at least this level of production we have today. The production cycle in agriculture lasted about one year or several months, but is produced annually, and therefore this increase will be slow and will last long and I don't think that production will increase significantly in the future 10 years. Organic production is a special issue because it exists on paper, physically it is gone, the product is gone. One of the most drastic examples I look at when I head for Slavonia behind Novska before Knocked on the right side of the highway you can see one 300 nuts from which you can't pick up nuts for two locusts, and support is paid for at least 10 years, support for the uplifting and such productions we have a lot that don't give anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93202	You have replicas, you have replicas. Dear representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93203	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lenart, here you are mentioning these nuts, we love the look of a nut and you and I, I mentioned them too. We're holding 10% in the EU, and we're producing less than 0.5%. It's one of those nuts paradoxes of Croatian. A lot of such damages, a lot of incentives paid off, and the effect absolutely nothing. But I am essentially interested in your opinion on what the EU is planning, and it is about reducing the use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, organic production, very high rates and how this will affect yields, production, but also the prices of agricultural products?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93204	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93205	Well, yes, the EU is heading towards some kind of green agriculture and ecology. They can deal with the rich countries that have developed production, so some of their production is directed in this direction, although Croatian soil is significantly, significantly less polluted with pesticides and nitrates, although there are irregular use of nitrogen fertilisers in our country, so they are thrown away, washed away by water, or can't be adopted by plants. I think that we should work and educationally, means more to our farmers to explain what to use and how to use, but without pesticides and artificial fertilisers Croatian production will be very, very low because we are not able to do organic production because we need much more manual labor, the workforce is not available and I think the transition to large organic production would be the failure of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93206	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93207	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, in your first part of the presentation, you've talked a lot about the role of science, how much the role of science should be, what it means, and how to apply all the knowledge we have. So we can have knowledge, we can have some round tables, we can deal with scientists, but if it doesn't come to someone who, you can simply tell which are his advantages and flaws you paint. Your experience is whether, as far as those who really do, therefore small agricultural economies which, there I had had the opportunity to say that constantly nothing, I laughed, so I said every week is one again, but I guess it's not like, how much they actually have the ability to educate, especially now in the Corona era we have both zoom and all other things, how much is there really the role of both ministries and other agencies that can help?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93208	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93209	Well, look, as far as I have information about certain educations there are being conducted by the ministry through the advisory service. But what is our problem with the advisory service is not the problem of people consultants and consultants working on the ground, the problem is the whole system because they are not adequately and spotably educated and addressed to the latest technologies. I believe that many of them would ask what a conservative processing is and how it is performed and at what time that many would not know how to answer that question. So we need to work first on that bond, and it is the advisory service that should be a bond between science and producers to transfer the administration they are doing to a certain part of the consultant, and to have a certain part of the people in the advisory service who know agronomic science and production well and what power this will easily and picturesquely explain to farmers how to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93210	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93211	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Lenart, this is your profession and I am glad to ask you that the Croatian public hears it. So, we heard today the minister is on the table from the academic community committed document 750,000 hectares we have unprocessed surfaces. If we know that about 14,000 kuna per year on average is, you can make 6,000 from wheat, and from the flowers 200,000, but the average is 14,000 kuna per year, that means we lose 10 and a half billion kuna every year, so we're a really rich country. As a man of the profession, what does a man who deals specifically with agriculture mean to you, this is the state's behaviour of so many unprocessed countries in our country, in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93212	State behaviour, as I said, means all governments and ministers from all agriculture options were not good and did not lead to the development of agriculture, but to the stagnation of agriculture, and today we are where we are and we need to accept that we are here, and there are various reasons why it is unworked. I'm going to tell you one reason that I referred to Minister Malenica, so there are people who have agricultural land, they get 800 kuna social benefits and they have some land, and if they sell it for 8,000 kunas for 10 months they won't get anything and they don't want to sell it, there's no one to process and clean it, the communal monks don't work, the services don't work and they turn into schizores. Here I have one six acres of such land, people won't sell because they don't have any of it, I'd buy it and bring it to its original state, but it's impossible. Here's just one example.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93213	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93214	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lenart, you have already said and answered your colleague Mrak Taritash's question about the transfer of science to the manufacturer. I am now interested in the experience of the Međimurski stacun here today was already mentioned, Cooperatives The best is local, except for the Međimurje County there is also Koprivnica-križevci County and there are people teaming up in cooperatives. It's about how bad the experience is true I know it's a really Bolshevik way of treating 2, 3 summers right after the war in conflict with Stalin has led to some things being frozen, but today people don't go to cooperative because they're afraid of conflict. What do you think about whether such cooperatives or European cooperatives can help us resolve these conflicts in a way that teaches us how to come to an agreement and keep the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93216	Here's my esteemed colleague for asking. I am here as head of agriculture and mayor of my own time working and trying to establish cooperatives and work manuals short for the establishment of cooperatives and something is being founded but later on, it fails. You know what an Austrian told me? Well, I'm not in the community because he loves cooperatives, but because I have an interest and I have a profit greater through that cooperative. That negative connotation of the word cooperative is a little bit of a problem with us. But the cooperative should be seen as a stock company. Each of us invests some kind of money, our cooperative earns, in 10 years it will have a greater value, but at any moment everyone must know what his share is. And when people start thinking about it that way, then they'll realize they're buying fertilisers cheaper, buying construction materials cheaper, buying machines cheaper, and that's their interest, but they certainly have to have profits in the community and profit from working on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93217	The last replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93218	Your Honor, this strategy has, among other things, conceptual failures. First of all, analyses were carried out based on the old data that were.../incomprehensible/... to bring, this is a big question and how these data and conclusions can then have a positive impact on the development of agriculture. Afterwards, when we look at what they wrote inside and how the analyses were done, a smooth analysis was done that wasn't complete. I'm not going to talk about that, here's where we just heard from our colleagues that some students or some activities will have an effect after a year. And it's supposed to do a checkpoint after three years. What about these two years of discretion? What about them? So we don't have to do anything within those two years, control whether we've achieved our goals, not achieving our goals, whether after two years on digital platforms we're going to have some effect or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93219	Look, all those who think it's easy in agriculture I invite them to the year when we go back into the plowing now it's over, to come with me one day just riding in the tractor, sitting in the emergency seat, getting three meals, getting a drink and getting a 300 Apaurin in the evening so they don't have a hard second day. Then they will change their opinion on agriculture, on support and on strategies and on such documents, which, I will say, paint their underpants to those who are black on agriculture, and those underpants are tailored by some who have no idea about it and have never felt it on their skin. Anyone who invested his money in agriculture spent a year stricken over that production, picked something up, begged God to sell and to charge for it in order to produce next year, he can understand what agricultural production is. So this in a year trust me the effect will be negative What's the situation? There's no improvement. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93220	Next individual debate, respected representative Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93221	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, so here we have a strategy for the development of agriculture that is a strategic document and here are essentially the most important action plans stemming from the strategic document. But let me look back, as many have looked back on some details, but first of all, I will take advantage of the opportunity and a minute to answer my colleague, Vuxan, given that he was talking or Vukasu about nailing, so here I am, now I'm going to take his answer, and I didn't want to hurt the Rules of Procedure and do this wonders. So the answer to Mr. Vukas is, in any case, so there are a few readings, so there are committees to discuss some things and thank God that the ministry has accepted all that, all those suggestions that have come from the Committee on Agriculture, by farmers, etc. As far as the Seed Act itself is concerned, i.e. fruit material. I would only invite a fellow representative, given that I mentioned that we had 50, that we had 50th session of the Committee on Agriculture, that we were discussing various topics, that we were opening different topics, and that I asked my colleague Ivanovic, I asked the president, I said I saw him five times, they told me, and he was less. So let the colleague be more freely involved and let him participate in the debates and let him contribute to the development of agriculture we look forward to him on the Committee on Agriculture. So here's the answer I let him answer. He mentioned, among other things, the terrible situation in beekeeping, so here's how I know, and personally the president of the beekeeper's association called me. the beekeepers' communities and that we have intervened through the committee and through legal changes, i.e. The ministry intervened and all those demands let's say 70% of the beekeeper's demands this ministry accepted and fedback i.e. The feedback is that they are satisfied and satisfied with what has been done and that they continue to expect this kind of cooperation with both the Committee on Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, so it is not true that nothing is done and is not responding, but that, in fact, problems are being solved through these activities, and I am glad to be involved in this. I can only say from my own experience, I'm going to mention one more thing here, let the ministry colleagues hear it, the secretary of state, I'm sorry there's no minister. Here, at the beginning of the debate at the opening time, we talked about the number of employees in the ministry and the agency, I can only say from my own experience of the mayor and the one that implemented the rural development projects of 7.4. where it took more than a year to control the documentation of the agency and thank God here we can praise ourselves we had a 100% positive opinion i.e. We didn't have a penalization. But long processes are control, it takes a long time and co-financing normally opens up some other problems for local self-government. However, from my position, and from the position of all those who use the paying agency in agriculture should think about new employment, you should think about teaming up because precisely these millions who are offered through the strategy question whether these employees and all those who are currently able to process it and be able to do it quality and let's say quickly implement it because precisely the speed and this activity of the agencies themselves is very important that we do not waste time in... So the secretary of state think about hiring in any case because it's exactly people you can't find on the road, but people who are always carrying out European projects at the end and control and without whom we can't function. What I would certainly like to comment on is raw agricultural land, so of course the agricultural land in Croatia is largely unprocessed, rooted because 90% can be said in private ownership and here, almost.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93222	Replica respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93223	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think it could be difficult to do something very difficult, and you as mayor know it very well. And this strategy, which is like a strategic document, has all that, knows all our farmers' problems and offers a solution. I'm curious, you were just talking about these abandoned lands that are quite suitable for this organic production, so I'm wondering what you think about what... production is some future for all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93225	Yes, organic production is the future, but it's hard for our farmers to decide exactly that organic production. The problem as you have detected yourself, and can be cited is a lot of small plots right in the area let's say Northwest Croatia, but it is a few counties that we are fighting with these problems. And here's me through local self-government, let's say more local self-government as much as I have information moving with agricultural directors who will try to force the owners of agricultural land to clean up agricultural land or that if they can't sell it, that's the way. There's another way, it's hard to say, but it's a tax on unprocessed agricultural land or a tax on property that would solve all this and all those who don't want to, don't process and can't process agricultural areas and other surfaces. We'd get rid of those surfaces. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93226	Next individual debate, respected representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93227	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Last year, at the end of April, we discussed here in this assembly and brought amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture, which is an article. 7.a. 5. regulation on the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy. And today we are discussing a proposal for a Agriculture Strategy until 2030. which is a roof strategic document in the agriculture sector for this reason because agricultural policy is implemented among other things and in line with the Agriculture Strategy. The strategy of agriculture sets out the vision of development, long-term objectives and priorities of Croatian agriculture and activities for their implementation. During today's debate, most colleagues and colleagues from the opposition criticised this very important document, that it is unrealistic, that it is unreal, that the dead letter is on paper and a wish list. All of us here had the opportunity to take part in the consultation and give our comments, suggestions or comments, but we didn't get involved is easier, not to say more fun, to criticise and attract media attention. This Agriculture Strategy sets out the four strategic objectives of Croatian agricultural policy, one of which is to restore the rural economy, improve living conditions in rural areas, and I would just focus on this strategic goal. It is known that in Slavonia agriculture is the main economic activity, the fact is that the village produces food and feeds all of us and that is why we are trying to enable and involve young people in agricultural policy. The future of agriculture is the young OPG and the young OPG carriers, because in order for our village not to die out, it is necessary to change generations. Generations must be restored to preserve life in our rural areas and to restore the demographic restoration of our villages. In Croatia, farmers and MAHs are mostly older and they are a little bit of a built-up people who are beautiful to all diseases, who can't step up with digitisation and who should slowly leave their economies to younger generations, younger generations who will have a perspective and future in their business that every young agricultural family knows why they are working, that their efforts and work are profitable, that they have a secure market for the delivery of their agricultural products, and then this has results and impact and survival and survival in rural areas. It is true that a few years ago we have improved the blood count of young farmers or young and small farms through certain measures of rural development, and this agriculture strategy aims to increase the share of young people and increase the value of agricultural production in our beautiful Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93228	My sweetheart Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93229	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93230	Thank you, colleagues. Well, I'm a village child, I'm a child of agriculture, I'm a child who I know very well how hard it is to work in agriculture and how hard it is to distribute that profit if what you've got to invest again, and we all know that it's the value of that product that depends on our sky above. So here's the thing about this Agriculture Strategy, I think it will contribute to both the larger agricultural production and our young OPG that we have as many as possible in our rural areas because if we don't have youth, if we don't have those who take over, those farms that are on some kind of takeoff, then we don't expect anything further from agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93231	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93232	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, that you said nicely in a replica where you connected and referred to the effect of measure 741, and now in your discussion, you were talking about what our rural environments now look like to us. First, demographic changes occurred with the migrations of the city, and then even in that system, and unfortunately here all those social services and institutions, including transports and other networks, which in some ways allowed for staying in the country, continued to be abolished. We won't be able to have any agricultural strategies, they won't have anyone to work for us if the villages really are devastated. So, spinning measures 741, schools, transportation and what you mentioned in the nursing home, "Wish" has done a lot here because when they leave they will also shut down the hearths in all our villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93233	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93234	Exactly. This government has helped and enabled us at local levels to also help our villages and our people in the country through this measure of “Wish” and through all these rural development measures since kindergarten construction, but we still have to remain on the point that, if agriculture stays in the country, farmers should stay in the country, that those who have children tomorrow have to go to kindergartens, go to school, and if we do not have the future and youth and young families in our villages, then unfortunately do not need neither kindergarten nor school.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93235	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93236	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Zmaic, you talked about how many young people there are and who does everything, who stayed in the country and how many OPGs there are. So here is something to contribute to statistics on the state of women in such households. According to the farmer's register, the share of women in the total number of companies responsible for the company registered has only 20%, 21.39%. Something better when it comes to OPGs, then the carriers are about 30% of women, but in more than 50% of women over 65. When we talk about the best, the best years a woman can give up to 39, they're all 7%. Would you give your comment and reasons why that's exactly the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93237	Here's the first thing you'd have figured out if we were 10 years ago. Women who were OPG carriers that there were about 11%, and now we have about 30%, so we've already improved here. Secondly, as far as women are concerned, as an OPG always means not to say a little bit about them because they are poorly educated, so they are not involved in something else, but there is a good OPG for them, and we know that the woman is not only the bearer of three corners, but she is also the one who defines and plans a future not only in the city but also in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93238	Next individual debate, respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it's 7:00 p.m., the debate has stalled, if it was important to attack this strategy and say there's nothing wrong with it, that I don't think it's a good target. Every strategy that comes through tells us clearly where we are and points us to the path we need to go. That and to read that from this strategy which is comprehensive and which carries its challenges as well as everything else. But I have to say some things that have been said here and sent to the public one totally wrong picture of everything these hardworking people do. Says Mrs. Puljak that the ground in Slavonia, Baranja and Srem has remained on 1% of humus. Please try to explain what that would mean. Well, in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, especially in Sreme, to sow the button that Djordje Balašević says would do anything. It is still the best quality, the best quality country that Croatia has, which is not poisoned with herbicides, pesticides, mineral fertilisers and that brings this to everything we're talking about and only generates what's called agricultural production. So let's not play. A colleague, Beljak, says that the lipian ergel in Djakov and Lipik has more employees than horses. It's an insult to those people. The state ergel of the Lipicans in Đakov has a 516-year tradition of growing the Lipica breed. It is an insult to people who deal with this, with this breeding, Slavonia rests on horsekeeping, and Ergela Đakovo and Lipik have significantly contributed to our horsemen's status today. According to counterpart Hajdukovic, he listened a lot in ULO freezers, about regional distribution centres, so he has a residence in Osijek and if he looked into the Nemetin zone, he would see that he is about to complete the largest regional distribution centre project for 2.5 thousand tonnes right now in Osijek. But he doesn't care, he needs to attack the strategy and say that there's nothing wrong with that strategy. Well, it's a lot of good, but she needs a lot more work, and that's true. In my opinion, 3 key things are important for better Croatian agriculture. Under number 1, increase the added value of agricultural production. It's the headstone of every farm, we can't be a raw base, we don't want to be a raw base, and that strategy clearly points and directs us towards that path. The second objective I think is to achieve, and with it we will have the most problems, these are climate change. Irrigation systems, just for one piece of information, let me tell you. Up until 25 years ago, we had a problem with excess water in the fields and we were draining from these fields because it was sixty-sixteen, or until '91. In the period of vegetation in Slavonia, 683 liters of rain fell in the vegetation season, and now 380 liters of rain in the same period of time. So that's the thing we have to pay attention to. And the third thing that is the weakest link of Croatian agriculture is association, only 0.24% of Croatian farmers are united. All that said about association has its negative connotations on the population, but without association in all sense, means in the ring itself when it comes to mechanization and everything that goes along with it, without association there is no progress of Croatian, Croatian agriculture. Croatia's agriculture today has to solve this crucial problem, which is how it gets from that raw material base into added value. That's not gonna happen overnight. One example I'm going to say, and I'm going to end it, the irrigation systems. With all the problems we have, you will find it very difficult to find a man who will irrigate it is a long-term process, it is a process that requires a lot of labour that is actually very difficult to find on the market and simply difficult to engage in such things. Now these are the challenges that we have to face, these are the challenges we have to deal with, and I think the Ministry of Agriculture is on that trail. works to achieve these three goals that I mentioned in my debate. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93240	Replica, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here we all know and say that agriculture is certainly a focus because it is the foundation of both the national and European economies. And this strategy is just about agriculture to be sustainable, self-sufficient in food production, of course to increase food production, to measure and coordinate environmental and health standards in this production and a lot of things. So, at EU level, the European Commission has been having a serious debate about agriculture and food production, and here is our representative, Sunchana Glavas, Glavak, who has had her part in this as well. So my question is when we compare the share of agriculture in Croatia's GDP and how much is the share of agricultural production in GDP at EU level, can you compare it and how we do there Are we standing? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93242	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93243	Thank you, thank you very much. It is clear in the strategy that the Croatian share in GDP is 3.3%, the European average is around 1.7%, but it is just a statistical figure that must not be fooled in this regard. We need to get to the point that our every producer produces food that is relatively expensive, which will be well paid to him, not food that will be expensive at the mall. That's when we solve it, which will, of course, be dealt with in part by the law on unfair commercial practices and everything that's going on on the market. Therefore, when the farmer is, the milkman, who is now paid 2 kunas and 20 limes, and at the mall is sold for 8.9 or 10 kunas when he sells it for 3.5 or 4 kunas and then we will be able to discuss these things. But it's a process that doesn't, unfortunately, last for a day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93244	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93245	You mentioned it nicely in your discussion, but here you can and can expand us over the past hundred years, we can say that, we have been dealing with the deforestation of our agricultural areas and irrigation is one newspaper in our agriculture unlike some other countries, so it is strange to listen to some debates that say that in Croatia there was no care about irrigation. Well, she couldn't because we had very different climate conditions and we had completely different problems than they had in other countries, although here's what's defined in this strategy because the climate is changing with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93246	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93247	Thank you very much. And I said, so by the 1990s, 639, 640 liters in that green vegetative season, we now fell to 380 liters, which is almost 50% less rain in those times when it needs it the most. It is true that the production of wheat, corn at that time when it rained a lot was much, much smaller. In the 1960s, we had a yield per hectare of wheat 2.5 hectare, today normal income is 8, 8.5 tons, some better producers, better land can reach 10, 11 tons per hectare. Therefore, agrotechnics are perfected, climate change is a challenge and there is no need to run away from it, and the Agriculture Committee has already held several sessions on the subject, and I think that's what needs to be watched at the end of the day to know about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93248	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93249	Dear colleague. I'm extremely glad that you listed three things that should be done, only you didn't explain them how, and even less in the strategy can be read to do so. To increase the added value of agricultural products, I was on my replica at the beginning of the exhibitor asking a simple question from a liter of milk that you have now said, and it costs 2 kunas and 20 to 17 kunas how much yogurt in Sparta or Dukat's yogurt in Sparta where Dukat is a French company fully owned by foreigners, where the trade chains are not to advertise individuals in the full ownership of foreigners how do you mean to achieve that the Croatian farmer has more added value than that? I say in the strategy I didn't find it, you mentioned it now, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93250	Well very simple, very simple. Every serious producer has to think about exactly the time he's in. I can list a dozen examples of people who have been dealing with goat farming, who have been dealing with dairy have seen that since milk production they can't service all those costs that they have... They didn't go to Germany, no, no, no, they didn't go anywhere, they stayed with us in Slavonia, and today they're the top cheese producers, the milk of their own homemade crayon, they've got good supplies, they've made a lot of effort. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They work for the malls, they work for our Adriatic coast, so there are examples. I'm not saying there are hundreds of them, I wish there were hundreds of them, but the intensity of this strategy is just to direct people to that warring is not something that can bring added value and it's very, very important. That's why the new Law on Land goes in favor of the cattlemen, it goes in favor of People who deal with cattle, for that very reason. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93251	The next replica is a respected representative of Darko Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93252	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Col. Ivanovic, you mentioned a concept of association, we have bright and good examples in the EU just to say not in our environment where actually the association of agricultural producers, the OPGs gives great and significant results, and especially in the exploitation of infrastructure capacities. You have also mentioned with you in your Osijek-Baranja County, but certainly in the entire Slavonia area, there is a range of capacities being built whether they are coolants, whether they are plants, whether they are also waterings that are mentioned so many times today, and the strategy itself mentions farming, whether through cooperatives or through associations. Somehow it seems to me that the mentality of our people is in the thinking that these associations are not good, somehow all of us would either do it ourselves or we have a glimpse of a man from once of the agricultural cooperatives that were the bearers of agricultural production in these areas. Is there room in Slavonia and your county for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93253	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93254	Thank you very much. Most MPs, like you, have commented on the merger, and there's some sort of blindness of association, but we have to sort these things out. The ULO refrigerator or regional distribution centre in Osijek 2,500 tonnes of capacity not only cooling but also packaging, the drying will lead to this association because through this system of regional, distribution centres all these small ones will have the opportunity to perform in better markets that are better paid than the market in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we must set certain standards, we must somehow lure people into it, not in the sense that they would be deceived, and they were often deceived, but in order to stimulate them, and in order for them to understand as someone in their debate said, it is not him in the community that he likes to be, but because it brings him a better, better income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93255	The next individual debate is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93256	Dear Vice President, respected ministry representatives, the minister is missing, respected colleagues. Ha, I'm going to continue to discuss my predecessor one more time. This time with a very simple motive, which is that this strategy should solve a key issue, which is human. The key question that is being raised is that a Croatian citizen who, let's say, will get a word of agriculture from this strategy that what has been happening to him for the past 30 years is not happening to him. To survive the sea, go to Germany, Austria or somewhere outside. Our task by adopting this strategy would be to create stronger and more competitive agriculture, which will then benefit those who are engaged in agriculture, as well as all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Now, let me get back to this syntagma extra, extra value of agricultural production that my colleague used before me. In order to have that additional value of agricultural production, then the supply chain that you also state in this strategy, but you do not define how, should be fair from producer to consumer. My question to the minister was very simple, how much does anyone make from 2 kunas 20 to 17 kuna? 2 Kuna and 20 got the milk manufacturer for the milk sold to the yogurt producer. In these remaining 15 kunas are the manufacturer and distribution centre or store with their margins and their costs. To me, Vice President, it seems literally amazing to me to produce a liter of milk worth 2 kuna and 20, and that practically 14 kuna and 80 is worth selling it and producing yogurt from that same milk. What this strategy shows is that, with all the nicely listed goals, we can't read anywhere within which time something should happen. What is crucial when we bring in some kind of strategy or when we bring in some kind of plan, and the strategy is what we want to offer farmers who work in this country that they can read the probability of these events. You mentioned risk management here in the strategy itself, this risk management is actually the biggest for state farmers because it does not know what the state will do, or whether it can win the country, or whether it can expand, or when the state in its own, according to its strategy, will implement something, or when it will use that power. Of course, here you didn't even think about that risk, here you meant the risk of insurance. So in order for people to be secure, they have to have somewhere to secure themselves, in foreign insurance houses? Ha, it's gonna be hard for someone to secure in a foreign insurance home without being lost. So the insurance company as well as the casino dealer is always winning. It means that protecting our country producer should in some way intervene in preventing that risk or reducing the risk of giving an add-on to premiums, whether to create an insurance system. It doesn't say in strategies, and that's what people who deal with agriculture would want to see, the certainty that what you wrote in the strategy will happen. That was your job when you wrote a strategy and tomorrow when you'd spend it, when and how you'd spend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93257	Replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93258	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague, I have one specific question. If I got all this data right, and I think I did, in 2012, we haven't recorded any karst pastures, we have over 100,000 today. Is the reason for the prosaic nature, so you don't have to plant anything on it, the incentives arrive, who controls it within the system, who makes sure that corruption doesn't get dirty and that corruption doesn't deeply bite the story of agriculture, and we know that 60 billion kunas a year Croatia loses for corruption, please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93259	Dear colleague, the biggest problem of Croatian society is in fact corruption, intransparency and not, the incredible thing that will happen to those who lead this country promise. You're talking about karst pastures here, they're probably caused because there should be some trap, but they're very far away, so nobody checks them out or we have a karst pasture or we have a field where no one checked, here a colleague says that 8 tons per hectare gets picked up, and we've encouraged a hectare, we haven't encouraged them to want to be 4, 6 or 8 tons, so we don't even know how much we get from what we've encouraged. Also with these pastures, no one counts there cattle, no one sees whether a colleague says "value added" there, so milk cheese was produced or only milk was sold or no milk was sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93260	Next individual debate, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93261	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. And I can't avoid emotion, now maybe some people will misread it, so let's just say a little bit of pathetic, but I can't avoid emotion. I remember, I remember, I remember my late period from Stankovci if then he had his own field, his own field, and then he worked with others and really what he did, people say hard to make money on his bread to feed his family, and then somehow I knew some of that story of agriculture because my parents in Kasto have the same country, so there's always something being planted, so I know how to dig and plant something that my colleagues don't think I'm talking shit. Being a master on your land is a big deal and whoever has their own land as hard as it is, I've listened and I know it by my grandfather and I know it by my father, you need to be in it all day long, very hard, but whoever has his own land and whoever has the products, food from his own country, he's a free man. Now we can enter conspiracy theories or not conspiracy theories, interest groups, and who it was appropriate to and who the laws worked to keep our people out of their own country or to simply make it so painful and invaluable to people that they no longer want to deal with the country, and that would be to talk about, a real academy to maintain, and to the people and to subsidize it. The state should have a focus on agriculture. Urban areas in the Republic of Croatia consist of state secretaries 1,1% urban areas and rural and transitional 98.9%. And now how do we treat rural areas, how? So he's like a wicked stepmother, and we should be like a good, caring mother, and we're acting like some mean, frustrated stepmom who hits that kid over the head until this guy gets his suitcases ready and runs across the border. Slavonia is empty to us, Slavonia is empty to us, 750,000 acres of our country is unprocessed. We lose more than 10 billion kuna a year, we're rich in land, we're richer than Israel, and if we take the average per hectare of 14,000 kuna, the average of wheat can be about 6,000, flowers can be earned and get 200,000 and you get to over 10 billion we lose, 10 billion in agriculture, 60 billion in corruption, so we're human, Israelis are a little baby for us. Our people are so rich that no matter how much they steal, no matter how much they take, no matter how deep they draw their hands into the pockets of citizens, there's always more to steal, so much more, enough. In 2012, we didn't have karst pastures, we have over 100,000 today, I asked that colleague. The incentives are coming, the money's coming, and there's no control, so what's up? Once a fair government comes in here once it's muddy, you're gonna do time for a kid not to know what you look like. That's how it's supposed to be, 'cause with a people hard necks like our people don't go any different, you're going to do time for your friends that they won't fall for you when we close them down the first 10, so he steals you, you thief don't steal, a lot more thieves in this country. The story of beekeepers and honey, today I've talked about it, I've submitted to the minister, here it will go in two days 30 days, I hope she answers me, there are some colleagues from the ruling say it's not like that, everyone defends their own, everyone in some damages, I don't have any harm. I have a volunteer of the Homeland War, beekeepers, a rescue from my area from my Kvarner who came and said Marine mud, beekeeping alliance, interest groups, mud, these, these, they, we're all gonna kick everybody's ass, so when I bite, I don't let go until it's all come out. Whoever stole the money won't sleep well, and that's how nice it is to be in the truth, I can't hurt you, I can just shoot blanks. So we're going to do the same thing, and why beekeepers got zero kuna, it's a sensitive sector, and tobacco products are 42 million kuna. So, there's a lot of issues about everything, you could talk for 10 hours, not 10 minutes, and there's my jokebachter that I made who scripts in college. So the state has to act responsibly towards agriculture, towards people who live off the land. We're not gonna be dear people, so it's not this, so we're talking some fairy tales, we're a small people who have 98.9% of the territory of the country, so let's finally get together and left and right and central and up and down and I don't know what to worry about our people on earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93262	Replicated representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93263	Your Honor, I have kept my last replica for the minister, but here we see that she is not interested in our discussions, for our questions, for our suggestions, she has abandoned us...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93264	I'm a good substitute for... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93265	...and since you mentioned the money and the rural part, I'd like to read you a little bit what it says in the vision of development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93266	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93267	Thus, the vision says that a higher quantity of high-quality food will be produced at competitive prices, increasing the resilience of agricultural production to climate change with sustainable management of natural resources, and contributing to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. Tell me, which farmer wouldn't sign that? Now, I'm going to look back at this last part, which is to improve the quality of life and increase the employment in the rural part, how we're going to do that, we've given one part of the country to foreign owners, and the state is renting what rents through a relationship. Who's going to increase employment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93268	I'm not a mathematician, but I am a logician, a theologian, a philosopher, here, there's a fellow actor and everything, but we understand a good point. So, if I get the point right, the increase in profits, you have one quality tree and then our people take that tree, drink it and sell it, for example. The Italians, and then they say we'll increase the profits, and we could make expensive furniture out of that quality wood and then sell it to them, the same story of the wheat, I don't know. So we're going to say we're going to increase, we're selling wheat now, and you could make some exclusive wheat, I'm a Rijekan, we love a pasta, one pasta good, and then you can sell it, so everything can be made much wiser, this is the 29th law that in the 30 years of this country has been changed about agriculture. God dearly gave it to be the last, and it seems to me that this strategy is written that we will have them by the end of this, by the end of this term of ruling at least two, maybe three, who knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93269	Next individual debate by respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93270	Dear Vice President, proposing representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'll like some other strategies when I'm having a debate,... a discussion of what is not in the strategy, and not of what is in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Inspired by Petro Hektorovic, one of the first literary works in Croatia, which is Fishing and fishing complaints. By 2020, we had a strategy that was related to agriculture and fisheries. It covered two sectors, one was a programme, or related to rural development, and on the other hand we had an operational document that was related to the development of fisheries, aquaculture, etc. In this Fisheries Strategy, not a word. About fishing, not a word, and that is why fishing is not a fishing activity like fishing, but is really a fishing trip to the promoter. Can we expect, too, that soon we will get a strategy on these parliamentary benches that is related to fishing, mariculture, or sorry, aquaculture because I come from the sea, come from Rijeka, so I don't understand or have a claim to understand them in Slavonic problems. Fisheries in this 70 - page document is mentioned because it is in the agency and because we have it in some tables. About where we are going to give the centre of gravity, are we going to give fishing with carts, are we going to commit ourselves specifically to the Adriatic, then maricults as part of the aquarium, whether our strategy will be to grow tuna on the open sea, which are our facilities in the Adriatic, in general, whether the watermelon, whether the teeth or some other species, what is the survival of the shrimp that is specific to the northern Adriatic, which is nowhere else in Europe? How to protect, implement, but also develop this activity, which among other things is one of the Croatian brands? Or is it somewhere between Korčula and Brač? Yes, some things are part of operational programmes, but it is not catastrophic, but it is catastrophic that in the Agriculture Strategy by 2030 we turn out to be not a country that has 1,000 islands and has one of the longest coasts compared to the number of inhabitants. It's sad. That's really very sad. Therefore, I really expect that we in the House will get one strategy analogue to what strategy because here this strategy is de facto a strategy that is related to rural development and the question is what are our objectives. What are our goals? If we go to shops, supermarkets, etc., where are our Croatian products, and not that we have them? And I should, as a consumer, ask myself why in supermarkets do I have garlic from China? No matter how cheap they produce, someone has to take it to Croatia. And we have it in our trade chains. We barely have Croatian garlic, we can barely find it, and then it must even be advertised. I'm talking about garlic, something that doesn't take a lot of watering or a lot of irrigation. It is embarrassing what is happening in Croatia in terms of food production, embarrassing. Are we going to solve something with this Strategy? I don't know, but the fact is, this looks like a copy-pass to me, to a copy-paste of a country's agricultural strategy, an EU member who's not at sea. Now I don't know if it's copied from Austria, if it's copied from Hungary, but it's really copied from someone because there's no word here about the sea at all. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93271	Next individual debate of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93272	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So today we are discussing a draft strategy for agriculture by 2030, and my colleague before me talked about the fisheries and aquaculture sector, it is not at all covered by this strategy, it can only be covered by some other strategy, so here, this draft proposal of the Strategy has clearly set four objectives. First, increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector, the second strengthening sustainability and sustainability of agricultural production to climate change. Three is the restoration of the rural economy and the improvement of living conditions in rural areas, as well as the promotion and innovation of the agricultural and food sector. The overall objective of the strategy is to increase the value of agriculture as we have heard from the current 20 to 30 billion kuna per year. Therefore, during the three-year period it is foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture 6.4 billion kuna. Of this, one point billion kuna is national funding, while 5.3 billion kuna is the European Agricultural Fund's funding. They stand clearly and count development needs, strategic goals and priorities. One of the development needs is to improve the link between manufacturers and consumers. We all need the goal and interest of finding as many Croatian products on Croatian tables as possible. Of course, this process is very complex and there are very many and administrative and different barriers, but I am pleased to see that in the potential for growth, among other things, it states that the development of complementary activities in the rural area and, among other things, the development of tourism is particularly important. We have new opportunities for growth and are again listed which are all groups of measures that will address the conditions and potentials for growth through integration with other sectors again and with tourism. The impact of tourism on the placement and production of agricultural and food products is already very well known and is very much said about it. But what makes me particularly happy is one implementing mechanism. It says promoting agricultural and gastronomic destination tourism, which means that a particular local product, certain culinary experiences, traditions and what can be presented through various digital content, stories and the like can create a new value in tourism. I hope that our farmers, as well as our tourist workers, will be able to make use of it. Although safety and quality are the most important to be found on each table, the administrative barriers that each farmer passes, and the caterer, or hotel house, are extremely complex and I think it is on us, at the Ministry and Agriculture, tourism, and I would say that such barriers and such obstacles are removed. In this strategy, we can see that it is important for the development of a gastronomic destination to identify the indigenous or traditional products of a region, and to encourage the production of such food products, and that the Ministry in the protection of the visibility of Croatian products and at the national EU level has planned certain implementing mechanisms, etc. C1 when encouraging partnerships and helping to improve organisational capacity in the agricultural and food chain. However, we can see that in practice there are also legal obstacles that make it difficult to function and connect it to local production, and this is also foreseen by a certain mechanism of so-called "agritourism". D1. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only through this strategy, but also in various other ways wants to help farmers, we also see in the latest package of measures from yesterday for households, businesses and farmers where we also have a small-value support programme for the purchase of artificial fertilisers, as well as support for the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector. Namely, farmers will have support for the purchase and war culture of vegetables and permanent crops, as much as 450 kuna per hectare for the first ten hectares of agricultural land, and 250 for the next and that measure covers 88 000 agricultural holdings, and the amount is estimated at 200 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93273	The first replica of the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will read to you my colleagues what the priorities of the French Presidency of the European Union are, of course, related to agriculture. Increase sustainability and self-sufficiency, introduce ecological and health standards for imported products. In particular, a reduction in pesticide use is stressed. The desire is to introduce a single EU standard for food labelling based on scientific knowledge. Is this strategy the same as those objectives that the EU believes should be implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93275	Thank you very much. A colleague of the coat of arms-Bujevic just like that. And this strategy is designed to increase areas under ecological production, reduce pesticide dependence is an imperative that is imposed in all European strategies, as well as in ours. The strategic objectives of Croatian agriculture are in line with the strategic objectives of the future common agricultural policy, and it also concerns the competitiveness and profitability of farmers, but of course also includes these issues that you are talking about, environmental protection, climate and other aspects of rural development are not neglected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93276	Next replica, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93277	In fact, I've watched a little National paper now, at least until now, a strategy related to agriculture and fishing has always been published in the National Journal. And my emphasis on my debate was that, which is that the fisheries in the title of that document are gone. Far from having a document that exists, which is called "More than a pond". Why isn't he in front of the MPs? It has been paid by the EU, i.e. we have had a draft since 6 months 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93278	Thank you very much. My colleague Fabianic, so when you started the exhibition, since I also came from Sibenik-Kninska, Dalmatia County, and I'm sure they're closer to the fishermen than the warlords. I have to admit that. And I asked the secretary of state, and then I went out for a bit of scurvy, so I saw. For example, yesterday we have support for farmers and fishermen. We have a special estimate of the amount and the number of agricultural holdings that will receive aid, and in particular the fisheries and aquaculture sector is projected at 50 million kuna, so additionally. The fishermen are always separated from the farmers, and then I think in this strategy it's also separate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93279	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93280	Thank you. Dear colleagues. The strategy shows that climate change is recognised as one of the main challenges for the management of agriculture in the next period, however, there are no recognised measures also spoken of by counterpart Brumnic regarding the compensation of natural disasters, there is therefore no cold, fire, fighting, various natural disasters that destroy crops. So, farmers, as we have heard, are turning to private insurance companies because for the damages of several tens of thousands of kunas from the state, if they are very happy, they get only about a thousand and the problem in this strategy is unfortunately not recognized and is not addressed or offered any concrete solutions, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93281	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Ursha Raukar, it is not obvious that this part just kind of flew over him. I expect such things as climate change, damage and so on. that it is mostly done and that it is in the portfolio of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It would be okay, and I agree with you that the Agriculture Strategy should be comprehensive and include the part that relates here I have looked back and I spoke most about the ratio of agriculture and tourism, which is why I have appealed to these administrative obstacles to solve such problems together, and so, when it comes to climate change, I expect the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to define that part in some subsequent period through some legislative or sublegal proposal and to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93282	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93283	The Honorable Chairman, a respected secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, representatives of the majority that you are now in the minority. Here I have prepared my debate believing that Madam Minister will be interested in our discussions, that she will be interested in our questions, our suggestions, our suggestions, but here she has left us not interested in it, so I will have to change my debate a little bit. When we talk about strategy and economy, we talk about some kind of long-term planning of the behaviour of economic operators in order to achieve some set goals. The first and basic prerequisite is for the correct choice of strategy is an analysis of the situation, which means that a business entity needs to look at external and internal factors in order to learn the best way to realize the desired goals and there are usually methods, some processes, we have BCG matrix, we have a SWOT analysis, we have a Porter model, etc., etc. Now to begin with, the data used in the document offered are data for the period 2008-2017 and data for the period 2011-2016. I haven't found any data relating to the period of the last four years... of analysis so my question is whether or not the indicators obtained from the data are really a good basis for drawing conclusions on the basis of which the development of agricultural production should be determined? Furthermore, the analyses mentioned in this exhibit are actually pure floscules because the analyses based on outdated or incomplete data are not analysis but speculation. There are risks listed in there if you noticed a SWOT analysis, but then there was no step further to make a risk analysis, to make and how to manage these risks, and it was not done to behave afterwards if anything happens. I don't know if it was left out on purpose was left in some drawer or if it happened with a leak. I think we are all aware that there are very few strategies in this document, and there are very many lists of objectives, however, that these objectives will be achieved and that there is no realisation in the document. Although there are some starting sizes, not for all areas that have tried to cover themselves. I've asked a question about the circular economy before, and I've mentioned that there's no definition of how we're going to realize it. It was said that we would look at it in the strategy, and here I was ready to look at it in the strategy, and there is no strategy and I am particularly interested in the part about the bio-economics that was mentioned, but it is not listed how agricultural producers will be helped to move to bio-production, with which means, with whom they will be informed, who will train them, where and how they will place their products that are very likely to have higher prices. What bothers me further is that they actually tried to define KPIs or key performance indicators, which indicates the fact that the intention to control performance in the work has been demonstrated. However, corrective measures are not listed, for example, are not used. Semaphoric techniques are thus asked whether there is any intention of working on a possible correction of measures of activity and procedures in order to really achieve the objectives that are managed. Of course, there is a discrepancy since some targets can already be achieved within a year, and measurements are foreseen every three years. So, in this document, we have a whole series of copy-pass phrases that have in no way answered our questions about how we will achieve these objectives, how we will counter implementation, how we will and whether we will measure overall the success of implementation, how we will know whether we are on the right path to bring the agricultural economies back to life again and that the existing agricultural production has improved. There are other questions that were intended for ministers, especially a question that was about Slavonia, which I asked last time we had that debate, but here, unfortunately, there is no one to ask, so I can't ask that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93284	Replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93285	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, in several places in the field of strategic objectives of the development strategy, mentioned the issue of digital technologies, so that investment in innovation technologies should be encouraged, so as to improve access to research and development, and again use of knowledge and technology, and then to increase the availability of information, advanced logistics functions in which we are very poor, and to develop new models of transfer of knowledge, practice, technology and innovation in agriculture. This all sounds quite nice, however, my question to you, given that you get quite familiar with digital technologies, does Croatia have enough capacity to achieve these objectives? Whether these objectives in the Strategy are realistic and what your prediction is, are we going to wait until the last, by 2030, for the state to start or have some advice to the Government as first as to the use of digital technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93286	Thank you. Here's the part of the debate I left out because there's no minister here. In fact, the ruling majority's representative said the results of the use of digital technologies in agriculture will be seen after a year. We have this gentleman who deals with agriculture, who told me in passing, it won't be any of it. It's not just his attitude, it's my attitude and many people who know what it looks like when new platforms and new information systems are introduced into an area. It's not just coming in, installing, putting on a computer, and then someone's running something. You need to go through training, first, the problem is that someone needs to buy it. That's what someone needs to get. After that, you need to undergo training and then, you need to move slowly into realization. If they're going to go into frontal realisation, who's going to help all those farmers use digital technologies? It's not that simple. So, since there is no minister, I haven't even mentioned it before, but anyway, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93287	... Following the final debate, the first final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, a little quieter so a colleague can...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93288	Thank you. In Croatia, as weak and underdeveloped as it is considered, agriculture has an impact on biodiversity, climate change drivers and the sustainability of agricultural production for future generations. Croatia's CO2 emissions are more than twice as much and more than globally fair and agricultural production has a significant contribution to this. The reuse of habitats into anthropomorphic zones is also excessive. Land resistance to erosion, especially under climate change impact projections, is insufficient. The load of soil and then hydrogen, nitrogen and phosphate fertilisers is multiplely higher than sustainable. In short, it is not only a problem of pollution, but soil becomes and depends on artificial fertilisers and does not allow plants to attach nitrogen necessary. The only thing our agriculture does not exceed its limits is the total national consumption of sweet water and retaining forest cover territory above 33% of the territory. So, finally, in the diet of the population according to market food, there are too many harmful fats, mainly from industrially processed food and global agro-industry-produced olives. However, since the production of food for its own needs, according to research in Croatia at least partially contributes to the diet of nearly 3/4 people, to hope that there is at least less fat from palm oil and more from home-spec and beetroots. We would support this strategy if it contained 3 next objectives. Change in the plan model of agricultural production in order to ensure food sovereignty, i.e. self-sufficiency. Namely, green public procurement is crucial. Where it is necessary to detect groups of manufacturers from which products are purchased for kindergartens, for schools, for hospitals, for universities, for universities, for all institutions. It is necessary to provide infrastructure, so reception, packaging, freezing of these products. It is good that a tender for providing funds for such a centre is announced, but the ministry needs to develop a methodology for preparing for green public procurement. Secondly, the second goal that we don't see here is to ensure a complete transition to eco-agriculture and decarbonize agriculture. Third, that the Strategy clearly defines measures to protect and preserve soil through pesticide depletion and change of the food production model. In conclusion, the proposed Strategy is most resented by the concentration of production aimed at maximum short-term profitability, without responsibility for the potential of agricultural land, workers and infrastructure, that stable production, for stable production of sufficient food, for quality nutrition and to ensure that for the next generation, pressured by inevitable climate change. This is, unfortunately, a short-term strategy does not answer the question of how the measures implemented will ensure the same agricultural production in 2050 when the total carbon footprint of such production should be zero or negative. On the other hand, it does not even tell current farmers how they can deal with agriculture in 2031.When this strategy expires, and the resources needed for its maintenance become more difficult to make available, for example. Fossil fuel energy. It only advises the current owners of agricultural land to provide public funds for direct intensification of production, for sale on the direct market. In the ecological and economic situation in which Croatia and Europe are in 2021, this is unfortunately not a sustainable strategy until 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93289	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Darka Sobota.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93290	Dear Vice President of HS. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The agriculture strategy is a roof strategic document in the agriculture sector, whose adoption is foreseen by the Agriculture Act. The strategy supports the implementation of the National Development Strategy by 2030. and the strategic objective of self-sufficiency in food and the development of bio-economics in the context of green and digital transition as one of four developmental directions that will contribute to the achievement of Croatia's 2030 vision. The strategy is also the basis for the development of the National Strategic Plan, for sector intervention within the framework of the common agricultural policy for the period up to 2027. The strategy shall also take into account the relevant objectives, priorities and measures and other strategic planning acts. Agriculture strategy until 2030. brings forward a vision of the development of the agricultural sector over the next ten years, identifying the development needs, objectives, priorities and activities that will meet the strategic objectives of Croatian agricultural policy. Today, several times, an increase in the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural sector, strengthening sustainability and sustainability of agricultural production to climate change, restoring the rural economy and improving living conditions in rural areas, and promoting innovation in the agricultural food sector. All activities under the strategy will contribute to the wider development objectives of Croatia, including integrated territorial development of rural areas, in order to improve coordination and complementarity between rural interventions. All activities planned by this strategic planning act are in line with the new EU guidelines in the framework of the Green Plan of the Strategy from field to table and the Biodiversity Strategy. The main requirement of the strategy is to make more efficient use of public funds through better targeting of agricultural support and rural development resources. Croatia has great potential to improve the results of its agricultural sector and rural economy, and this strategy gives guidance and describes the implementation mechanisms that will lead this transformation process and help the country turn its agricultural sector into drivers of economic growth. General objective of the strategy by 2030. is to increase the value of agricultural production in Croatia from current 20 to 30 billion kuna per year. The concrete implementation of the activities envisaged by the strategy will be ensured by the planning documents of which the most significant future strategic plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy for the period 2023-2027 will include details of implementation for all measures financed from the EU budget. Part of the activities contained in the Agriculture Strategy has also been developed in the NPOO specifically to build distribution logistics centres in the fruit and vegetable sector, digitalisation of agriculture, and commercialisation and monitoring of agricultural land. The measures provided for in the strategy will, to the greatest extent, be financed from the EU budget for agriculture and the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. During the period up to 20276.g. The Republic of Croatia can count on around 5 billion euros from the EU budget, or around 7.5 billion euros over a ten-year period of implementation of this strategy. For the implementation of the funding strategy, the budget plan for the period 2021-2023 provides for a total amount of €6.4 billion from which 1.1 billion from national funds and the rest from European agricultural funds of €5.3 billion. The HDZ Club will support a draft proposal for the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93291	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the RF of Honored Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93292	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Here we are today listening to everything and everything in the debate, the worst that farmers have listened to, and you can think that they're commenting on today's debate on strategy and agriculture, and even about all of us fighting here, and that our agriculture is failing, it doesn't even matter who's out of what option. What concerns me in this strategy, which is the problem that 29% of direct payments receive 1% of the biggest users of direct payments. There are also what they draw from the eu funds, and these are also the largest amounts and it's hard to be like an OPG or a smaller farmer competitive with these companies that can get a lot of money because they're teamed up, but they're better open than we are. The competitiveness of the OPGs at a time when there is insufficient or no access to EU funds, which should be easily accessible precisely for smaller economies as it would help them raise competitiveness. Today many MPs here were full of the mouth of digitalization of agriculture, believe me, those who work in agriculture don't think it's that simple and that digitization solves everything. One example listed here by counterpart Piletic, it is company AGRIVI, the software they made for digitisation have made software that is well sold, the company has experienced a takeoff, but this company has now US blueberries between Kutina and Garresnica on the left hand side, somewhere halfway along the road that was covered and nets against fighting and placed on the foil, so protected, I see that some infrastructure has been set up to monitor meteorological conditions, but during the years after AGRIVI took off with its digitalisation of agriculture, American blueberries have disappeared. The rest of the network, the pillars, but the blueberry is gone, it seems that the digitization didn't bring progress in this production, it's already gone, so the digitization that we farmers are currently using, because I'm going to tell you my example, on a tractor from the '80s. Mr. I set up a navigation that comes in 2,000 euros, maltenes like that tractor, and that's a digitization that helps you a lot in the agriculture of family economies. I also know many colleagues who have problems with digitizing, it's the digitization of tractors that are now full of sensors, computers, which manage the processes on the tractor, have terrible problems with repairers, services and repairs of these tractors because there are no one, there are not enough capacity to maintain the regularity of these tractors and then these tractors often stand more than they do and we come back to those 20, 30 years old who, like they would tell me about the whore and there's no digitization in them. So digitization, normally, in agricultural production is globally necessary, but with that concept, it needs to be seriously handled. And I would also like to see how important this is, in this public debate, to read two things of Forten's groups that have come forward, they say it is necessary to ensure that large businesses can withdraw grants in order to increase the value created by agricultural production, large farms in Croatia also need support for public expenditure and investment for the development and adoption of improved technologies and manufacturing practices in order to strengthen production, but also to encourage and ensure the co-operation and growth of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And they pulled big money and it's very important to them and the other thing, forten's group, is the necessity of adopting the Law on Agricultural Land, which, above all, will allow for a clear, transparent and economically conditioned distribution of agricultural land, and... to be led primarily by economic and economic criteria in a large number of cases, the owners invested in the above-mentioned for a number of years, inherited 33,000 hectares of land of Agrokor which is in foreign hands [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is their policy. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93293	The next debate ended on behalf of the Social Democratic Representatives' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93294	The Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, I'm going to look back a little bit on what I didn't get before, so I'm going to ask you a question that I've already asked here once, in a similar way, and it's about Slavonia, which is the richest agricultural land, and it's actually devastated. Many agricultural producers have left our country even though at the time here at the impelation you claimed that in the past few years in Slavonia, nearly 20 billion kunas have been pumped for agricultural production. Did you measure the effects of that pump? Do we know what we got with it, what was achieved? What mistakes have been made? What's to change? How do we limit the level of support for the economy? And what you asked yourself and admitted, in fact, that the support was not justly distributed, is the question of how do you more justly allocate the resources that are being given to support? I asked you here last time what the effects were, given that at the same time you were pumping that money in Slavonia, you lost about 70,000 residents from Slavonia, and how many OPGs were closed and how many farms were destroyed during that same period, and who was getting incentives? Let me remind you, it can be checked in the video, you replied to me that he had more sheep. So that was your answer, and I think you're right. Now I'm going to look a little bit at technology, a digital technology that is one of, here, good, good examples of what and how to do, but what the ruling majority claim to be in disrepair with what you think is later measured. Here was a colleague from Novska who said the first results could be seen after a year. If that's the case, then why did you set up the KPIs for three years? Why don't you measure the effects after a year? What's the problem, if that's the case? If that's not the case, tell me, the man was wrong or I had the wrong idea. Do not forget that you set many goals in the Strategy. It is very small, in very few places or almost nothing is explained how these goals are meant to be achieved, and this is extremely important to us because the strategy should actually point to how we will achieve our goals. The goals are good and no one can say that these goals are not good. To make agriculture competitive, to have competitive producers, to have quality products, to return the population to the rural part of Croatia, the goals are excellent, but how will we achieve them? And let me remind you, when using digital technologies, for example, farmers should now be dealing with various digital solutions because here, we will have digitalization on the part actually in the chain from the manufacturer to the consumer, the digital marketing is mentioned inside. It's about raising our manufacturers' entrepreneurship skills, we're talking about some kind of coordination between interventions in rural areas, and we forgot about the elemental part that I reminded you of last time when we were talking about Internet infrastructure, which is that our telecoms are not interested in building an optical network in rural areas. Why? Because it's too few people. And their profits are too small. How do you plan to do that? There's no explanation. But we'll support digital technologies both for irrigation and for control and all kinds of things. And not to mention the KPIs that are only partially defined and... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93295	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93296	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we have had many opportunities to hear today, this strategy is a set of beautiful desires, a document that is not applicable to Croatian circumstances. The document we paid 2.5 million euros, which has been produced since 2018. We have not yet received an answer to what was happening in the meantime and why we are so late in the adoption of this strategic document. You haven't told us all day what we've been working on for the past year and a half, how much this text of the strategy is acceptable to today's circumstances, it also tells us that apart from the fact that the data relate to 2019 and 2020, and not with any data from 2021 pandemic Covid-19 is listed only in one chapter and in the financing, as if it had no negative impact in Croatia. In the introduction analysis of the agricultural sector, there was no question of pandemics. Perhaps under the influence of the parole that Croatia has won the crown. I consider the minister's duty, if you do not have any information on this strategy in writing, you could ordinarily inform us of the current data, for example from 2021. We heard from HDZ representatives that this strategy and the development of agriculture is not related to the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia. You may not know the families and individuals who left their farms and went to work abroad, but this is the fact that our villages, especially Slavonian villages, are empty and that it is necessary to adopt new measures for the revitalisation of the village and measures to bring the OPGs and small farmers closer. No advice is available to the Croatian farmer at the agency and no grants are available to him. Who will deal with agriculture if generation restoration is not a developmental need or priority? The Strategy lists 4 strategic documents with 15 development needs to be addressed through 6 areas of intervention. If these needs are also well-detected, the areas of intervention do not offer concrete solutions. Throughout the strategy, the emphasis is on primary development, the primary agricultural sector, while food production is only only partially and unclearly covered. In this way, the food industry remains deprived of clear strategic objectives and solutions related to future development. We also had remarks that we could hear today, that not all can be put into one document and that the Strategy is in line with European documents, which are not binding, yet you have decided on 15 development needs, and they should have been adopted by consensus and broad discussion given the assessment of the needs and diversity of the Republic of Croatia. It is currently a priority to regulate a system of leases of state land which is bad and the law is problematic for implementation. For example, in some cases, long-term owners will lose the land they use due to an unfair credit rating system, the only solution is to put as many countries as possible into office as possible and to strengthen land use control. In 2020, the competent agricultural inspection carried out 1090 controls, adopted 205 solutions and 64 indictment proposals, which are devastating figures in view of the needs on the ground. The inspectorate should be better integrated with local and regional units to contribute to better and more transparent use of agricultural land. It also lagged behind, emphasising strengthening local initiatives through further development of local action groups, implementation of local development strategies. We believe that the primary further development of agriculture is within the framework of stronger decentralisation and strengthening of all stakeholders in rural areas. The most important priorities are missing such as generational renewal, then social conditionality, gender equality and empowerment of women. Significant provisions relating to food safety, fisheries, forestry, strengthening local communities and a number of other priorities. The needs and priorities of agricultural development are not clearly set up by 2030, and implementation mechanisms are not sufficiently clear. This debate today came with results, a lot of information we got, it's pointed out everything that's missing from this strategy, but it's crucially next. It's a waste of our efforts when it's all over, printed, plasticized and stored in little boxes that the minister first gave us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93297	Following is the final debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Minister Marija Vučković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93298	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives and MPs for taking part in the debate both those who have made good proposals and those who have shown unsustainable knowledge of agriculture, about the methodology of making a strategy, about Croatia having a national strategic plan published in contrast to those from 2014 on websites that provide detailed indicators and objectives from those who we have now heard that they do not know that fisheries policy is part of another fully common fisheries policy and that it has its multi-annual programme, as well as a forest programme, which, due to certain rules, has its place in the National Strategic Plan, but is not its place in this document. But we are where we are and knowledge can be upgraded. At first, I would like to say that there has been a lot of talk here about the relationship between small and large companies and the need for better support for small economies. Also, the representatives are mainly here, if we may say so, the left-wing provinces pointed out such a need, but never more favourable in the documents of large companies and related companies was not compared to what analysts could notice in the documents of 2014, 2015. Never a major mess, a change of laws that were worth a month to get cattle out of a farm to get land without competition. Forest land was allocated without legal basis. Today we have a lot of problems that sometimes make us feel like we're not part of the Ministry of Agriculture but some other institution entirely. About how employees, spouses are officials, etc. participated in such competitions, got hundreds, so in some cases over 1,000 ha I couldn't say much right now. About the non-compliance with the rules of related societies, it is something that has really hit Croatia's agriculture in addition to inadequate reactions if we lost almost a hundred million gallons of milk annually in 2013 without being able to cope, not reacting to the crisis at the time, and that the number of notified support from the moment of entry into the EU was additional, new, uninherited and remained zero by the end of 2015. Today we have a strategy that is not late, which was not envisaged by the previous regulation for the debate in the Croatian Parliament, but by insulting the representatives on the proposal of the ministry and this government strategy has been given the opportunity to debate in the Assembly and should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament because it is important. The amendments to the Agricultural Act that we have proposed, and the Croatian Assembly of those who have supported such amendments and adopted the amendments in 2021, and the strategy was on time because it was not in time for the National Strategic Plan to work out all the measures in detail by 2027 finished, delivered to the European Commission on 31.12.2021, and now we are waiting for comments like the other 16 countries that have managed to do so in a regular period much better than when it was a year and a half late for the rural development programme that seems to have been adopted in May 2015, and farmers could use the funds since 1.1.2014. Of course, it can always be better, but I would like to reiterate that this roof document is methodologically correct, that it well detects the development needs of Croatian agriculture, that we have started all that is not controversial in it with the hard work and changes of the existing Rural Development Programme, so we have announced the competition in the last year for reproductive centres in pig farming, so we will be the second fifth for dairy farms and for the robotics of farms, warehouse and silos. To change the type of breeding, for the welfare of the animals that we have classified and managed to negotiate with the European Commission, and to significantly increase in the crisis in 2021. We have introduced financial instruments which are no longer the issue of the agricultural bank, because young and small farmers were able to use the funds at interest rates of 0.1 to 0.5% and the maximum individual loans from 50,000 euros we raised to 100,000 euros, remained an example of good practice in a very short time, found their place therefore in the EU guide and more than 1240 farmers in two and a half years of use used significant funds through such available financial instruments. So, we are already applying this strategy, and we will apply it in detail through the National Strategic Document, the National Programme for Resistance and Recovery and, of course, reacting to all possible disturbances that are unfortunately happening, they are large and significant, so I will reiterate in the mandate of this Government in addition to bringing regulations regarding official controls, in addition to further editing the problem of land, in addition to being forest land unlike those that gave it just without looking at even forest-economic bases, let alone legal bases. That, since October 2019, we have contracted more than 40,000 ha and such land. So we will continue to do all of this and the ambitious goals set in this strategy supported by several important and sensitive objectives that we have highlighted as development needs. We did not stress everything, but what is particularly sensitive to cattle, pig farming, irrigation, the number of new young farmers, renewable sources and rural infrastructure. That's what we looked at in the strategy, and in the National Strategic Plan at all, that we're going to make these goals right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93299	We have replicas. The first is the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93300	I'll do one thing again. So, last time we have a Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries, which is published in the National Journal of 2002. Now all we have is the Strategy of Agriculture, and I respect the fact that today is a new way of working an exclusive document. But I don't see any reason for the Parliament not to discuss it as well as the Agriculture Strategy, not to discuss the fisheries strategy. That's one thing. Secondly, Europe's intensity is F to F, so farm it fork or what they would say from manufacturer to consumer. It's nice what the minister said about improving agricultural production. The question of how it will end up at the Croatian citizens' table, given whether and when it will come to Croatian shopping centres, at least geographically.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93301	Fishing policy has been separated through its documents, its specific support programme and its legislative framework since 2013. So, Croatian products that need to be more, we need to ensure continuity, we need to secure a larger quantity, of which we are leaving and we cannot give up. Croatian products, such Croatian products of stronger, strengthened, united producers that will market at competitive prices will also be bought by Croatian and foreign consumers. This is the way in the open market, to strengthen their competitiveness and connect the single food chain in the open world, in the EU open market. There's no second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93302	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93303	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I believe that your colleagues listened to your exposure carefully absorbing everything that you have listed as a minister and this Government all that has been made and a strategy that is not late and a strategy that has come to the Croatian Parliament here... where everyone has a quality to declare, propose and after many years that in the Croatian Parliament a special quality where a quality decision can be made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you yourself have said on two occasions, our left governments have not gained any courage, so I may not say that they are competent to engage with this quality fact that you have said, so here I am asking you to list a few more important things that are important at this point for Croatian agriculture and for fishing, which is certainly one big thing that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93304	Thank you very much. In addition to what I mentioned, we talked a lot about small and large economies, so we will stress that Croatia has chosen to double the redistributed payments in its draft. So double the funding for the first hectares, for the small economies of 2014 for the development of the fourteenth and twentieth, that was 10%, now it will be 20% of the total envelope. And our calculations show that it will be more useful and financially generous than if we chose... and more just. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia also increases funds for young farmers to 102m euros with national resources through the future National Strategic Plan, increases individual support and implements stronger internal convergence for the purpose of equating payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93305	The next replica of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93306	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. Here we spent all day in the Croatian Parliament today discussing the Agriculture Strategy until 2030. Okay. Everyone had their vision, everyone had to notice and add what wasn't good. I, as a man who comes from the village, who lives his whole life with farmers, with people who want to stay, who want to work, can also say through the Agriculture Committee that the Ministry of Agriculture, in all these difficult circumstances, are really difficult, with the covid, with the collection of repromation, manages to articulate the part that is most important, and to send a strong message to those to whom the strategy is intended. These are our producers, if we had a government, if we had a ministry that wanted this better, stronger and stronger Croatian agriculture that we are talking about here in the Croatian Parliament, but I would say at all the other forums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93307	Thank you very much. We have a lot of work to do in our Slavonia, but we are looking forward to the first positive data on the number of young farmers who have totaled the share of young farmers that has grown in the last few years. From Slavonia County ahead of the share of young farmers, we look forward to it. Of course, we are facing a number of other difficulties, and part of their development goals, especially on that valuable part of Croatia's food spine, will also be achieved through better integration of warfare and livestock that is publicly read in response to the development needs of the law, in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93308	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93309	Dear Minister, uh, you made very difficult accusations on the account of the top people of the Croatian Forests in 2014, and based on the analysis, as you said by analysts paid 2.5 million kuna, as we heard today, so I urge you to report to the competent institutions all that you have in terms of guessing in the assignment of particles by the leaders of the Croatian Forests in 2014, that is also your duty. If you don't want to, give it to me, I'll report them, and quite bravely of you to say something like that since I will remind you absolutely free of charge that HDZ's President of the Croatian Forests Management Krunoslav Jakobčić is actually a suspect in the wind power plant affair precisely for guessing and that he is burdened with trading influence, giving bribes to trade influence and abuse of position and authority, so here is, completely free information, unlike your, 2.5 million kunas, I ask you to report to all the competent institutions and repeat, if you don't have the courage and time to do so, give me that documentation, it would be nice to read what those analysts wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93310	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93311	It has nothing to do with this, parliamentarians, distinguished parliamentary representatives, having nothing to do with analysts, so this has to do with our internal audits within the Ministry of Agriculture and I'm sorry you don't know, but Croatian forests haven't awarded this land in 2014, Croatian forests have been assigning forest land since 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93312	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93313	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister has been injured by an article. 238 Rules of Procedure, namely, you must know that parliamentary deputies listen very well to what you say, do not belittle as you do all day long to the parliamentary representatives. I listened very well and carefully to what you were saying, you called on the analysts who found out, turn over the footage, analysts who determined the bargaining, and that's the part where the forest land was assigned. So I invite you anyway to precisely those who have been identified as the ones who have opted report to the competent institutions, and remember a little bit of ours that please each day [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Intruder: This was...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93314	I'm an analyst, licensed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93315	This is, please, Minister, you cannot answer. Don't communicate with each other. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was your replica. The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've been together 10 hours, you've presented a serious document, a strategic document of agriculture, and I'm sure all those who follow the area can only congratulate you, of course, and your associates. This is very important for our farmers, it is the basis for the adoption of other action plans and everything that follows, but I would just like to tell you that in Karlovac County, not only in Slavonia counties, it is also growing the number of young farmers, it is a great joy for us, it is a demographic measure because people remain then on, in rural areas and in this way we are actually revitalising, let's say, the village. This is very important for us in Karlovac County and this, I'm sure you'll make sure that even more of these young people are helped financially, which will then significantly improve all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93317	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93318	Minister, thank you. ... Mr. Bull, you'll get a warning, please sit down. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, my God. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the secretary of state and his associates. Next item: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 228; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 228. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Please, a little quieter, please, colleagues. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93321	Honorable Vice President, MPs and MPs. Here's one, I'd say, lighter subject. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Act is amended and complemented by an existing legal framework for the development of vehicle infrastructures using alternative fuels in accordance with so far available technologies and taking into account the existing legal framework for the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia alternative fuels used in transport include: electricity, hydrogen, biofuel and natural gas. The objective is to develop alternative fuel infrastructure as a prerequisite for their use in transport in order to achieve sustainable market and transport system development on the basis of them and to achieve a lower, or minimal, negative impact on the environment and society. This proposal provides for harmonisation with EU regulation, the creation of a prerequisite for providing better quality service to alternative fuel users through the establishment of an alternative fuel charger register, the development of the market through the establishment of a transparent comparison system for alternative fuel prices. This draft law transposes the provisions of the legal property of the EU, which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to apply as a member from alternative fuels. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Act will provide for additional existing provisions, namely provisions on charging places for L category motor vehicles, provisions on the supply of electricity common to inland waterway vessels, provisions on the supply of hydrogen to road transport vehicles and provisions on natural gas supply to vehicles participating in road and water transport. In order to improve user information, as well as to monitor the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, this proposal sets out the establishment of a refuelling register for alternative fuels and its management. The proposal also introduces the obligation to show information for comparison between the corresponding unit prices of all types of fuel in publicly available supply and refuelling sites. This will allow for a more transparent demonstration of fuel prices at fuel supply stations, which will also increase the awareness of drivers, suppliers and media when buying road vehicles. Finally, the aim of the bill is not to additionally burden the state budget or regional and local authorities with a view to equating techniques, specifications for charging and supplying alternative fuels in order to be compatible with all vehicle technologies and to allow for the uninterrupted use of the vehicle on alternative fuels throughout the EU in the times to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93322	We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93323	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So my question will be exclusively about form, with a series of laws we've seen different models and different possibilities. Now, we have one law that is very interesting in terms of surveillance. So the bill promoter is the Ministry of Infrastructure, you are the State Secretary in the Ministry, and the Ministry of Energy will exercise administrative supervision over the implementation of this Act, and the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure will carry out inspection controls in the implementation of this Act. Now indulge my curiosity, someone who's been dealing with different administrative procedures for years and everything and was also proposing on this from the executive side of the law. How would you plan to carry out that administrative surveillance works by the Ministry of Energy [[Intruder: Time.]] You're the promoter, I'm just curious, maybe you can explain it to me. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93324	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93325	I appreciate the question. So since we are part of one government, and we work together not only on this but also on a number of other laws, it may seem illogical on your part, given that this is also the first reading, refer this proposal now, or we are listening to you now, and we will see until the next, or final bill. But if he stays, since, I say, we have a very good inter-resorial cooperation, I don't see any problem. But thanks for the suggestion, and we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93326	Next replica, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93327	Secretary of Transport for Infrastructure, of course alternative fuels are very important, but what about infrastructure otherwise, will be set up charging stations for alternative fuel for vehicles? Here I'd just like to ask you a quick question, since you're right for the infrastructure, but there's for you, and Ante Sanader, he could be a lot of things right now, the Unsuspected Minister of Transport. Can you, these, say what with the fast road from Kukuzovec to Križice because you avoid going away, there is no minister at all, I... Sends state secretaries, asks him, just like this, because you are from this resort, soon comes Sinjska alka, let him come to Sinjska alka, and soon we will have a walk along this old road, 50 thousand people expect this infrastructure project that is the most important, vessels of housewives, not only the development of Sinj and the Cetina region but the discharge of the Split swimming pool. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So later we're going to solve these problems that you're tribbing, who's going to monitor, who's going to monitor, but it's important that people stay. If you'll keep us like this this.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93328	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93329	I appreciate the question. Even though it's not a topic, your question wasn't focused either. We are otherwise proud of the large, large, quantity, I would say, projects and their value in the Split-Dalmatia County area. What makes us happy is that very soon the construction of the Kozjak tunnel is worth over a billion kuna. Also, removing narrow throats, moving out, completely new construction of the Split-Omis fast road and I believe that people will welcome it, but also the north of Split-Dalmatia County is in the plan of Croatian roads and will certainly not be neglected, and here, I would like you to be there more often, except, I would say, the wrong-doing sessions so that you continue to warn about the matter, so we will have even better cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93330	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93331	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. By increasing the incidence of alternative fuels and vehicles with small and zero greenhouse gas emissions will certainly reduce their emissions from transport, however, the aim is to reduce emissions by a minimum of 55% by 2030, I think it is a good trend, but important investment is needed, both in vehicles and in infrastructure and alternative fuels, so here I am interested in what the Government is doing and what it will do to achieve these objectives in terms of citizens' subsidies, legal persons and units of local self-government. We know that the aid so far for the purchase of hybrid and electric vehicles was not enough for that declared demand, and also for local self-government units will need help to establish infrastructure for alternative fuels, not only in financial terms, but also in the legal, planned installation and infrastructure through building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93332	Thank you. Well, here we are currently in the process of programming a new operational programme where we will certainly be guided by this EU programme of the Fit for 55, but the National Recovery and Resistance Programme itself and its development has given us the opportunity to implement several programmes. I can mention, here, the programme of co-financing for the purchase of new vehicles on alternative fuels and the development of alternative fuel infrastructures in road transport, the use of hydrogen and new technologies, the purchase of vehicles for alternative public and urban transport, the application of green technologies in rail passenger transport, the purchase, construction of passenger ships for coastal and liners, are just some of the points that we have already included in the National Recovery Plan and Resistance worth more than 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93333	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93334	My dear secretary, one question about the hydrogen charger. I don't know if you're in contact with the engineering college, if you're in contact with the H2 association, so these are the ones who really are the leaders in Croatia regarding hydrogen and hydrogen use as fuel, especially the engineering college, and if you're a little bit, if you've looked at what's going on in that section around hydrogen on the Internet, then we could see that they're actually quite proactive. So, the engineering college opened the charge room three years ago, and now it's almost three years ago, and H2 has an intention, among other things, to open a water-trafficking station. Now, since that's not covered here, are you in touch with them and will it be possible to open that charge room at all, given that there are no standards that need to be met, no standards are prescribed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93335	Thank you for asking today at 10:00 this morning at the Ministry I had the opportunity to talk to some of the representatives of the H2 association and before that we had several meetings. We care deeply about what the waist thinks, and I personally feel that they have very good, interesting suggestions, and we will surely follow them. After this Law they come to order and rules that will define certain standards and I would say, details, and what is important is that we and through the National Plan and Recovery and Resistance, through the Operational Fund Competitiveness and Cohesion which is yet to follow us, we have taken into account their ideas, so here is one program that, that is, the application of a call issued by the Ministry of Regional Development, which is precisely about the possibility of establishing in maritime transport, so here we are helping on our part as much as possible. We're in touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93336	Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93337	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's this law that's currently in effect, which we're about to change, is about five years. Five years ago, we almost didn't even have a power charger to charge the electric power car. During these five years as the Law is in force, and we are a tourist country, people come to us with electric cars, my feeling is that it is actually built at this point enough charger for car charging, but you come from part of Croatia that deals with more tourism than the part where I, which are your feelings, should this be even stronger for us or that road we started is intense enough to maintain the number of chargers that we need and tourists to be satisfied with us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93338	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. We can't be satisfied with the number of chargers, and we can't, first of all, be satisfied with their strength. And what is ahead of us, we need to focus more on implementing stronger, stronger because as new cars come, new technology requires that we also increase the power of these chargers and, as I said before, only through the co-financing programme of purchasing or building alternative fuel infrastructures in road transport, through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan we have in the next 2 to 3 years in the plan to implement 1300 new chargers, of which 200 are fast and 1100 standard, but in addition, we will, of course, also through the new Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion encourage investment and the opening of new charging stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93339	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas. Would the committee's reporters like to take their words? There isn't. I am opening the debate, the first to hold a hearing is the honourable representative Vesna Vucilović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93340	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The EU has determined that by 2050 it will be carbon neutral. Although energy consumption per capita in Europe is relatively high, according to the World Energy Council, Europe is a region with the lowest primary energy intensity per GDP unit in the parity of purchasing power. This means that Europe is in principle relatively effective when it comes to converting energy into GDP. Regardless of these relatively good indicators, compared to Russia and the US, the EU will reduce energy consumption by 36% by 2030 to achieve this carbon neutrality target by 2050. After energy consumption, both in the EU and in the first place, 23% of CO2 emissions are coming from the sector and the percentage continues to rise. The road transport uses 75% of the total energy used in transport and generates almost 73% of the greenhouse gas emissions of the transport sector, that is in Europe. Of course, the additional problem is also the dependence on import oil, of which it means imports come 84.3% The volume of transport is constantly increasing. Of course, there is an increase in the movement of people, the amount of goods transported to the EU, so that, according to the 2030 projections, all these movements will have consequences for climate change, air quality, energy consumption, and infrastructure. So this decarbonisation of road traffic, using sustainable alternative fuels, will require flexible access and in principle, this would mean that for different vehicle segments we will have different alternative fuels. And from that, what results is a clear necessity for diversifying transport energy sources, and a solution is imposed in terms of setting up and strengthening infrastructure for alternative fuels considered acceptable to the environment compared to gasoline and diesel as conventional fuels. Now, alternative fuels within the meaning of this Directive are defined meanings such as those which are a substitute for fossil fuels and, of course, have the potential to contribute to decarbonisation of the transport system and improve environmental efficiency. It's electrical energy, is it, as the respected secretary of state said, hydrogen, biofuels, synthetic paraffinic fuels, natural gas and incinerated oil gas. It is the EU, and how is the situation in Croatia? Can we compare Požega, Virovitica, Pula or perhaps Lower Andrijavci to Paris, Munich or Regensburg? I would say that, apart from the towns of Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, there is not much traffic in Croatia. If we look at the numbers a little bit, then, tell me, is there a lot of traffic on the highway from Osijek to the Middle East on that part we call Slavonic? Nowhere. That road is less or less always empty, with colleagues of Bulja missing road, there are roads here, there are no vehicles. There are no people. He'd say our people have water, no buckets, no buckets, no water. The whole road for you, ladies and gentlemen, and the toll is a little too high for us Slavons. It's expensive. Our CO2 emissions are twice as low today as they were in the 1990s, the industry is gone, the other 3 cements, petrochemicals, one sugarcanana in County, two closed and, as we can see, on the streets in the city of Zagreb, garbage is the biggest problem, and with the arrival of higher temperatures Zagreb will again become a stink town because of these huge buckets on our feet. However, in the EU, we are dealing with alternative fuels, so we are working here in HS, and we must ask ourselves, is it enough just to pass the law or should this law be applied? Why am I asking that question? In Vukovar we have a biodiesel factory, the Slovaks invested millions and this factory has been closed since 2016. 30 workers who worked got fired. Why is this factory closed? There are no markets and fuel distributors, regardless of the law, do not mix biodiesel into this diesel. They say, without incentive, biodiesel is expensive, and without control distributors don't use it. The waiting factory, the desk workers, they're all waiting for some better times. Millions currently invested are dead capital, while new factories are being built in northeastern Europe, close in Croatia, and it is not the only one. We've got three, three engines, all three locked down. The capacity of 90,000 tonnes of biofuels and that's still not enough for those 10% of fuel from renewable sources that we've committed to meet by 2020. What's the topic? If the gas is driven, and we in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan have, be careful, the new biofuel factory in Sisak, will invest more than a billion kunas of grants from the Recovery Plan for what the Hungarians promised to do when they bought the INA. So biofuels in Sisak can, and biodiesel in Vukovar can't. A closed factory, and that's that vicious circle we're discussing here tonight at 9:00. A vicious circle that won't lead us anywhere. The development of overall transport in terms of alternative fuels faces this vicious circle, investors do not invest capital in infrastructure building because there is insufficient demand on the market. Therefore, the price of the vehicle driven by alternative fuels is also high due to low customer demand. On the other hand, customers do not want to get such vehicles because they are expensive, and because of the lack of adequate infrastructure, we are turning around in circles. Like a pussycat. So without the support of the public bodies to bridge these problems, and the factories would not be preserved and extinguished, we will find it difficult to get out of that vicious circle and it's nice to write it all in our laws, but it would be even nicer if these laws finally started to apply to me, and if the competent inspection bodies started to control the distributors a little bit, then maybe that factory in Vukovar and these other 2 plants, all three of them employed together by workers, people would work, receive wages, and the farmers we discussed, here all day, would grow raw materials from which this biodiesel was produced. Otherwise, farmers were all in the vicinity of Chepin in my county who now have no one to sell what they were growing for a biodiesel factory in Vukovar. So the problem isn't quite that simple and hard for us to solve these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93341	Following the debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Sandra Bencic, has no right to lose her. Next is a debate by Mira Bulj on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93342	State secretaries, a river would make some alternative fuels very important, fossil fuels are even more important and never more expensive, currently farmers cry out for oil, and we're going to be a little bit in the future. I've seen that in reply to something you said to me as if I were more often in the assembly, otherwise I'm very little and I rarely answer, so I'm going to be gentle so I'm going to say that as an activist and as a man I think from that area I'm ears in politics just because you're leading right now, you're a little young, I mean it's not that, it's good as young. So we're talking about infrastructure. This time about something we must achieve by EU standards, which will be. A colleague before me said the problem was the lack of a vehicle. There are some small roads in Vukovar-Srijem County with us is the opposite problem. The busiest road in Croatia is D1 through the centre of the town of Sinja. At the level of the year.../incomprehensible/... was to us Omis means summer at one point. So I asked you a serious question, very important for infrastructure, it is a fast road Kukuzovac – Križice it is a union of Sinja with Split i.e. The Cetina province, which is no less or less, has more inhabitants than Licko-Senj County, and is larger than Međimurje County. So that problem, I'm glad to see this Ante Sanader project going through Kozjak, I don't mind. However, the tribal would measure how much traffic we have, how important it is Sinj, Cetinski end and how important that tunnel is if you get it, I think something might be of some importance because trust me that Split because of the density i.e. There's a problem with overcrowding. And about stations that charge electrically, on electricity, it should, the tribalo discuss of course the triba and standards and reach, the tribune people have money, the tribune have subsidies that they can buy such vehicles, the tribune have a complete infrastructure. However, if we continue this way, there will be a lot of things, and we will go with the donkey to certain things. And it's not just about the secretary of state who, in the end, you said that sentence with the right, you're right, you should say, we should all be here more often, in a statement, not enough just to pave the way for the election cubes. Once I was a candidate for mayor, those last election and I would go to the Imotski second round, I couldn't get past the truck, rush, chase through the Imot truck, go to the cube, and then the river in the county doesn't have a chicken di up to the stake, just for the sake of the vote.../incomprehensible/... wanted to say that it had to have priorities in the infrastructure. As a young man down from Dalmatia, you understand what I'm saying, and you're also from Zadar. from the Zadar hinterland. And we know what the backs mean. So this year, I may have been, unfortunately.../incomprehensible/... colleague of Parliament's representatives and unfortunately, of course, the Sinj HDZ I sent back to the mayor's history. And, of course, as mayor of Sinja, I want cooperation, but cooperation in the project. Write it to yourself, but Sinj and the Cetin end will no longer be without that road. I don't have to be mayor. Probably a colleague laughing at Deur. Probably the people were wrong about him. The people may be wrong about you when you laugh about me being mayor. But I repeat once again, I am sorry that he is not a minister, he avoids these, these topics, fast road Kukuzovac – Križice is a strategic project important for Split-Dalmatia, not Dalmatia. Kukuzovac is the center of development, I'm talking about the Kukuzovac as long as that road comes if you know the area. With the resolution of this part of the dump, the economic zone, a huge area for Split's development, I repeat the overcrowded pool from Omis to Trogir are simply a natural barrier to the mountains in the hinterland, the Kaštelan Bay is already occupied by this space. So once again, and I will talk about it more and more often, and I expect you and the minister to come to Sinjska alka, and bring it to the people, the regiment of the heroic Cetina region, where you all want to come to Sinjska alka, that brand and to the miraculous Lady Sinjska, I hope that this year it will not be banned by Beros or this Minister Bozinović.../incomprehensible/... that there will be no procession. So I'm expecting you, but with that news, that's what the people expect, it's easy for me, I'm just the mayor right now, and that's the need. And that's what this people deserve. And then we'll talk about alternatives, infrastructure, whether the charger's electric, tribune alternative fuel, if you're watching, you bring down a little fuel, a little excise duty down, 12 kuna is fuel. Here, in the end, I won't be long, but I wanted only a young secretary of state to be told because it's from Dalmatia not only to look at mayors by party card and by the direction of the heads of the county organizations and those who pull, draw the strings. Look at the people, the interests of these areas, the development potential of these areas, and believe me, you as a young man will not make a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93343	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS representative, Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93344	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, of course again in some late hours, and some topic has already been said by the Secretary of State in some light topic. This topic that I am extremely fond of and this is a topic that I think we need to talk about now and that we need to talk on time. This is one amendment and an addition to the law that is to be supported and you know that even from the opposition you get whenever you do some step, when you do step up to some green technology to get and from the opposition somehow support for it all together. And here we're in line with the directive, we're going to satisfy some form and have it all together so I'm talking about the chargers and all the fain. Now let's talk about reality. Let's see what we really have and what we really want. So, the topic of alternative fuels is the subject of the EU's dealings. The theme we're dealing with is not because we want to, but because we have to. What's this about? So, it's about us thinking and seeing which step we take further to transport and the way in which we have certain means of transport. Now I'm starting to talk complicated, and I'm just gonna try to tell it. So at this point at EU level last year, more than 50 cars were sold that are electric cars. But what makes pollution is that when I talk about road, rail and other traffic, public transport. So at this point, there are several key issues. Key issue, public transport, funds involved in public transport to which fuels will they be? Is it going to be electro chargers, is it going to be hydrogen, is it going to be something else? What's going to happen to all those vehicles that are in the cab ride? So, the fact that someone is going to buy an electric car, on an electric drive, drive from point A to B, primarily to drive within cities talks about environmental consciousness, talks about everything else, and it is, first of all, not to that extent or the consumer, but it is not to that extent or polluter. Although the cities to remind you have passed different variants and different options we still have some cities and will be cities that are in Germany where certain days are forbidden traffic. Where it's forbidden to traffic by diesel fuel cars. We didn't get to that. But what is a key issue and the country's commitment is to public transport. There's a colleague on behalf of the club talking about biofuels. I'm the story of biofuels and even biofuel production went through and all together. We've been through some experiences that are good to know. So, the big polluters at the world level are your ships, your planes, are your heavy cargo traffic, we're small, we're a small country, but the question is what the future will be like for airplanes. So, what we're gonna do here is we're gonna be fueled by planes and then we're gonna do everything else. The question is ships, ships that were first started and then biofuel consumption proved to be created in the first set of these different algae, so then it was not to say, I won't roughly always be some benefit more damage than benefits. So that's a series of things to discuss and talk about. I'm very happy to discuss and discuss this, first of all, I'm terribly curious and this is my character trait, and as soon as something new is new, it intrigues me to see a little bit of what and how. And secondly, I think, we're one small country and it would always be good if our role models were some other country and we saw when some other countries made something to see what they could do to us. When they were the first wind power plants worked in Croatia I was a great supporter of wind power plants and I said I was a great supporter for several reasons. The first reason is to really show that we are a country that takes care of different sources of energy. The other supporter, to me, these wind power plants in the room don't look as bad as they look good. And the third thing is, I thought it was going to be some kind of domestic industry. The first and second things were left, although there were a lot of those who were against it, so only then were we discussing birds, birds' flights, who sleeps, who doesn't sleep, when the birds fly, they don't fly, so we always go one step too far, and the third reason we never did. So we have never turned it into a good thing for Croatia. So, let's now move on to the general chargers as this law says, chargers of alternative, the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. So, we'll establish infrastructure. We're going to establish, we're going to satisfy the form, we're going to have regulations, we're going to say how it is, they're going to get information in time, which is what and how, but let's just ask ourselves, so this is one of the laws where we should give ourselves answers as we think that we're going to develop in the future about our public traffic and about that heavy truck traffic. What are we going to encourage? What fuel are we going to encourage, and which industry are we going to encourage? I have to admit and there, my son doesn't listen to this, I have there really my son is, he's doctored on using different types of fuel and it's just for these remote transports, how, can I use the current fuels, which means using electricity, which means using hydrogen, which means this and then every time I ask him quite directly, what do you think. And he says, look, it's going to be what industry will recognize that they're the best possible and it's not up to us, we're going to continue to be on that market. All of this has its advantages and disadvantages. So the advantages are in the subject of use, and what are faults is waste management. The waste management and the electric vehicles, and the disposal of the waste, as well as someone else's. So, it's just a question of who's gonna break through first and who's gonna be stronger. The same thing he says at this point were, or when we talked about the chargers for the electric cars, you could come charging. The question is, the moment you don't want to do it anymore, I'm saying free of charge, the question is the moment when it, it's not like that anymore, and it can't be like that. So, what I'm trying to do to you in these late hours, as my colleague Miro Bulj says, so I don't care if anyone listens or doesn't listen, I listen to myself. I'm kind of always trying to speak from this pay phone rationally, trying to speak somewhat affirmatively, and regardless of whether the two or three of us need it, I'm trying to get behind that at least to keep us in our heads or to keep doing some steps. So we will satisfy the form here, we will satisfy all those EU directives and everything else, the question is what we want. What does Croatia do through a plan of resilience and recovery that we recognize? What are we going to subsidize, what are we going to invest in? Because look, we invest in someone else's industry, so we don't make it all together except the exception is a Roman who produces one part and everything else. So, it's always a big, big, big, public transport. So the theme is this transport that's heavy and what's important, we're the country that's decided to develop tourism, and that's something that no matter what we're suggesting is tied up one way or another, if more than 50% of last year's car was sold with electric power, so they're going to come here, you know what they're going to look at first, first they're going to look at what kind of chargers we have, because if they come to a gas station like we have now, and the third one's okay, they're going to fill the car in two hours, they're going to tell my company to go somewhere else. So we have to take care of it, too, and we have to take care of it all. So to me, the debate on this law, the debate on this law that we have, and we satisfy the form, but the debate is a step further. I didn't think I'd have an individual to give up, but I'm not gonna give up. I just need a little more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93345	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93346	Dear Secretary of State, honourable colleagues and colleagues, this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU legislation or the 2014 Directive and its amendment from 2019 and, as counterpart Mrak Taritash said, whenever Croatia's legislation is harmonised with European, the legislation of Croatia is harmonised with European legislation there is no dispute here, so we are prepared to make such proposals and to support them. However, in the middle of 2021, the European Commission published a proposal to create a new regulation on alternative fuel infrastructures that should have taken effect already this year. Therefore, this new regulation will encourage a much faster transition to low- or zero-emission mobility with the appropriate infrastructure to charge such vehicles as we are talking about today, so those to alternative fuels. Which would mean that we are now introducing a directive that we are about to put out of force because we are going to have to comply with our legislation with the new regulatory legislation whose adoption or entry into force we expect, and it is also mandatory as such to introduce it into our legislation. So, once again, in this example of the amendment of the law, we are actually looking at our delay, our memorial, we may have received a pack of the European Commission because we are constantly late even in violation of those deadlines in which we have to comply with our laws with European directives. In the Republic of Croatia, alternative fuels used in transport include electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and natural gas. We aim to develop an alternative fuel infrastructure to achieve sustainable market and transport system development and achieve less or minimal negative environmental impacts. Why have I specifically mentioned here what is considered to be alternative fuels in the Republic of Croatia? Because, among other things, natural gas is considered to be ingested, the one from the LNG terminal in Omislje which we decided to fold or cross into tanks and drive on one of the most traffic-laden state roads in the Republic of Croatia. And this is the latest information, that is, this initiative has just been launched and, of course, one local community such as Omisalj will once again fight the windmills and try to point out to the ruling that such an idea is simply madness. And well said colleague Mrak Taritash, what is the problem in the whole story is the fact that Croatia does not know what it wants. It is one thing to prescribe from the European directives, but it is quite another to do so on the ground. If we were to apply even what we say as an order from Europe on the ground, we could say that at least we know what we want, we want what the EU tells us, but as an independent state, we should be able to think strategically about how we're going to behave, and this new initiative that I mentioned earlier on the example of LNG terminals and the transport of ingested natural gas to tanks from such a terminal that has not been seen anywhere in the world, at least not in such a way is something that was not foreseen by an environmental impact study. And why not? Because that's not what you were thinking. So it was clear that it was not normal, that it was not a standard and standard way of doing it. Not only that, even the supply point or the crossing point for the intrinsic natural gas and in the Terminal Gas Act is provided for in Rijeka on Mlaca, and here it is now trying to derivate this law and past such a law to infuse Omislja and transport the intrinsic natural gas from the tank terminal, repeated on the busiest, one of the busiest roads, the state roads in Croatia. But let me get back to the law. The law proposes to be further regulated for the interoperability of areas related to L-category charging sites, then to regulate the supply of electricity from land to inland waterway vessels, then to arrange natural gas supply places for vehicles participating in road and water transport and technical specifications for hydrogen supply to road transport vehicles. It shall also determine the establishment of a registries register for alternative fuels and its management, etc., etc. Although these changes are welcome, I repeat, we are once again cascaded because this year we will meet with a new regulation on alternative fuel infrastructure that significantly better defines publicly available filling infrastructures for vehicles as it increases among other things and the number of chargers across Europe. The new regulation set up the so-called so-called. Nationalally binding targets that would prescribe how many EU member states must set up a charge room for light and heavy vehicles, so the SDP Club decided to invite the ministry to start preparing, not to be late again, the moment will come very soon when we will have to implement this directive in our legislation as well. If we follow what is happening around us, we can predict some things or we could actually comply with this directive much sooner or later, or we can bring this legislation into line with this Directive. So what we're doing now we could've done a long time ago. As a tourist country, I believe that we will all agree that it is in order to introduce a charge of charge of the vehicle using bank cards, so all chargers should also set up card readers on their chargers, thereby making it easier to charge charge to many electric car drivers especially tourists who are not familiar with the network of chargers in the country they visit. And that is, of course, the proposal for this new regulation that we are just expecting. It is precisely this regulation, so from 2021 that we are going to have to introduce a significant amount of infrastructure strengthening to the so-called so-called infrastructure. TNT corridor which connects all major transport points in Europe, which means that in Croatia and neighbouring countries the number of chargers for light and heavy electric vehicles in the relations Ljubljana – Zagreb and Varazdin – Rijeka would be further increased. By 2025 at every 60 kilometers, at least one charger for electric trucks or buses with two chargers would be placed up to 350 kilowatts, and at least one charger with two chargers would be equipped with up to 150 kilowatts. By 2030, the number of chargers must be doubled. So, the goals are very high, and I hope that despite this pace, we will step up a little bit to achieve these high goals or at least get closer to those goals. What is the proposal of the European Electromobility Association for every state in Europe to set up enough infrastructure for at least 10% of the total number of vehicles in the country, for example in Croatia, which would be much more infrastructure than is currently needed on the existing number of electric vehicles, and this would certainly be motivating for vehicle purchasers to consider switching to vehicles with zero CO2 emissions. Therefore, owners would not worry if they could find a place to charge, and on the other hand, the charging facility would be co-financed by the EU, so for the country itself and such an expansion of the infrastructure would actually be largely decommissioned. Here, because of everything that I have stated, I am really appealing to the promoter to hurry up with the application of this new regulation that was adopted in 2021, which will soon come into force in order to actually improve the functioning of alternative fuel infrastructure by its timely application and so as not to constantly cascade behind those most efficient Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93347	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Mir Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93348	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, honourable colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, when the Law on the Establishment of Alternative Fuel Infrastructure was passed in 2016, which we are now changing through this bill and I think we can all conclude that the infrastructure for alternative fuels except for the gas pump almost in Croatia was not there at the time. In these slightly more than 5 years, it has been built exactly a lot of power chargers, but we must conclude that, apart from the still infused oil gas, there is still an extremely limited use of other alternative fuels in transport such as still a very small market of transport products that do not use oil derivatives. If so, we can see it according to the data provided by the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia for 2021, where in late 2021, we had a total of 2 million 437 thousand registered all vehicles in the Republic of Croatia, of which a million and 794 thousand are precisely those categories of M1 so vehicles that are used for the transport of mostly passengers, but the one next to the driver who has up to a maximum of eight more passengers. In the total number of millions and 794 thousand, there are some 65,000 of those categories of M1 that also have equipment that can be used for ingested oil gas. When we calculate that as a percentage, it means somewhere around 4% of these vehicles are used by ingested oil gas. The goal of the Republic of Croatia is to develop an alternative fuel infrastructure as a prerequisite for use, as we have already heard here electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and natural gas in transport to achieve sustainable market development based on the right use of electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas in transport, resulting in a minimal negative impact on the environment and society. When we take data for electric vehicles then we can see that at the end of 2021, the share of electric vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia relative to the total number of vehicles of category M1 amounts to all 0,17% and according to the data of the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia we have 3,054 vehicles of category M1 on electric drive. And on the other hand, when we compared it to 2016 when we first passed the law, there were only 224 such vehicles, which means we now have an increase in these five years from about 14 times. What's even more interesting is that hybrid vehicles, so those that are mostly on oil or gasoline, mostly gasoline, are growing their number from 1,843 to even 15.918. This is not so much conditioned by the desire of our customers as the industrial development itself and the technological development of those who produce cars because they have concluded that the development of hybrid vehicles is a significant savings of fuel and therefore already some categories of vehicles, that I am not speaking stamps and thus advertising them, but you can hardly buy them anymore to be exclusively diesel or gasoline without being installed into them and electric motors and some battery, which means they are actually hybrid. Those vehicles that are also hybrid and externally connected, mean that they can be additionally full, let's say 2016 was only 96, and now such vehicles we have another 1.181 means some total number is 3,054 exclusively on the electric drive another 1,181 hybrid that can be charged additionally. This draft Bill of Law amending and supplementing the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Act further prescribes provisions on charging places for motor vehicles of category L, which are mopeds, motorcycles, three-cycles, four cycles which have not been in the law so far, meaning that this law of 2016 did not prescribe or define technical specifications, norms which are to be met by motor vehicle chargers of category L. When I look at how many of these vehicles were registered in 2016, 445 of them were registered in the Republic of Croatia, now at the end of 2021 it grows four times and we have 1,771 of these vehicles. In addition, provisions on the supply of electricity from land to inland waterway vessels are introduced into the law and are prescribed to meet the standards. So it was done already in 2016 for vehicles at sea, but on the inner waters it was not, so it is added here, which is basically something that is very useful and desirable. Provisions relating to gas hydrogen filling stations used as fuel in motor vehicles, including hydrogen quality characteristics, fuel supply algorithms and power supply connections shall be amended. What's kind of a fact, and it's already been set up through replicas at the beginning, we in the Republic of Croatia what I know we have one charge room at the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding that serves more for scientific purposes than for anything else. And how many vehicles do we have on hydrogen? I'm not sure we have a registered one. However, it is again a reflection of what is happening in the world industry. If there may be tens of thousands of total hydrogen vehicles around the world, then it's a reflection of us as a small country, and we can hardly develop at once and force everyone else to do something like that if everyone else in that direction doesn't. Provisions on natural gas supply for vehicles participating in road and water transport are added. The draft law aimed at better informing users as well as monitoring the development of alternative fuel infrastructures shall determine the establishment of an alternative fuel charger register and its management. I've tried a little bit of finding out how much we have at this point in the charge room, I've done it for those who are HEPs, let's say if those data are accurate enough that I've managed to find, but let's say 260 chargers in the Republic have only HEPs, so there's not a number of those that are Tiffon's, Petrolov's, and HT has their own chargers. When you add it up a little bit compared to the number of cars registered in the Republic of Croatia, then when you exclude the tourist season, that number of chargers actually turns out to be enough because it turns out that these chargers have 2 to 6 connection points, so when you do a little bit of calculating that, say, the average 3 points per charger on this number of cars, it practically turns out that we have 3.9 cars. It's already been said here that we need chargers that would be much more powerful. HEP is, HEP has installed the first chargers with 175 wheel of amper, and I think we have one of 360 colovolt amper, so we have those that are relatively fast and along the highway for, to cover our tourist season, but we can't expect that if it decides on a world level or moves on to electric cars exclusively to electric power that we'll be able to fill all cars very, very quickly. I now see that time is slowly leaking to me, so I will just say that, of course, this draft law also transposes the provisions of certain EU acquis that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to apply as a member from the alternative fuels area and the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93349	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93350	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues here we are gathered here in large numbers, there are 8 of us and now we're talking to each other about what we should do. I'll just for the sake of accuracy list a little different numbers than those that my predecessor listed. In fact, we may have enough chargers at the moment, but we will have to respect the EU's recommendations. And the number of chargers in Croatia according to the proposal of the European Electromobility Association should be at 10% level of the total fleet, Mr Totgergeli, which means that there should be several tens of thousands of chargers in the Republic of Croatia that could serve around 280,000 cars. So these are the recommendations we'll probably have to follow soon and I guess there are some negotiations, and I'm afraid we won't be able to get away from that. And at the same time, by 2025, we should set up at least one charger for electric trucks or buses every 60 kilometers, which means that the number of chargers should double. So that's a lot, a lot more than we have right now if we want to meet some of the standards that our colleague, the distinguished representative Mrak Taritash, spoke of because when a tourist comes to Croatia and when they see that 5 is next on the power plant she said she'll leave, I'm afraid she won't because she's going to have an empty battery, there. Alternative fuels to be regulated by this law, which will be regulated by the establishment of infrastructure by this law are electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas and ingested oil gas. And we must agree that with most of the mentioned alternative fuels we have already met in life and in our debate in the assembly, and alternative fuel that has not yet been talked about, at least not in this mandate is something special that is said to have a by-product that is completely clean, which is water steam. The hydrogen chargers in Croatia have not been very widespread since the opening of the first Croatian hydrogen charger at the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding of the University of Zagreb over which the first hydrogen-powered bike has been filled for nearly 3 years. Here's the answer right now if we have hydrogen vehicles in Croatia, we have a safe, it was built at Engineering College three years ago and here it can be loaded on the charge room that's there. On the portals we can find information that the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier is inevitable in electricity with.../incomprehensible/... to plants, and with cogeneration the most efficient and purest way of converting other energy sources into electricity. The H2 Association says hydrogen is inevitable and that without hydrogen, it will not be possible to imagine for the next 10 to 20 years in the field of technology, as well as in industry. According to their estimates, by 2030, Croatia should see at least 6 pump stations for hydrogen. The first of these pumping stations that will be built should be in Zagreb or Port and will be used for buses, private cars and trucks. At the same time, the association with the town of Vis has concluded a contract and works for the first hydrogen charger on the island, so there will be a boat charger if, if regulated by law or if we define standards for water supply facilities or water transport. You've heard the answer to my reply to Mr. Secretary from the Ministry, and I hope that this will be resolved given that this project has already already begun, and if we don't regulate it by law, we'll have problems. These are the plans and forecasts of the association, and unfortunately, in the bill, several places mention hydrogen as road fuel and no water transport and no railway. The draft law clarifies that it is waiting for the EU Council working group to complete the debate on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the introduction of... alternative fuels where hydrogen is discussed among others and the introduction of hydrogen into other areas of transport, including water and rail transport. Now, from this note it is evident that Croatia is most likely late to comply with the Directive from... Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, So the question is, did we get a warning about this discrepancy, I hope the secretary will answer, with the EU directive, and now we have to do it urgently? Because at least in one hand, it is speculative that at the same time we have a proposal for a law that we are harmonising with the directive, while at the same time in the Committee on EU Affairs and the parent board of the position of the Republic of Croatia on a new regulation which should be repealed. Now, the rules following this adoption of this law are also followed by the rules and it is very likely that the new directive will be adopted before the completion of our jobs here in Croatia relating to compliance with the old still valid directive, so the question is what are we going to do after that? They knew we were following again probably at the end of the year again the same harmonisation, probably a change of law and a new rule again, or if that's not so please correct me later in the final word. Furthermore, I am taking the opportunity to ask a question to the legislator for us as a tourist destination visited amongst others and many nauticalists to us who have a large number of islands with which land is connected by ship and ferry lines is not in the interest of us to take a step forward and define without the EU Parliament and without the Council of the EU in our law and the development of infrastructure for hydrogen chargers and water transport. I think it is very important, given that this issue must also be asked because of a boatman who will certainly start using hydrogen as fuel in his vessels, and also because of our inhabitants on islands and shipers who will surely seek an alternative for oil derivatives. We must note that it is good that it has been recognised that alternative fuel chargers should be taken into account and that standards that must be respected with a view to meeting all users of vehicles with alternative fuels, I am thinking primarily of power chargers. And I also welcome that the law defines standards that should be respected in the construction and release of hydrogen chargers. I would like to point out once again that the law should also provide for rules and standards for water-supervised water-supervised water-supply plants, regardless of EU and Council of Europe regulations, because here, as I said, it is currently in the debate in the EU Working Groups Council and I think that it might happen to us that, just when we adopt all the rules regarding this law, we will have to re-change the law and bring new regulations. I recall that when we took the first step in the provisions of the Excise Law that the EU has accepted and included this step in EU legislation and I believe that there is also an opportunity here to take such a step because I believe that many EU members have the same or similar problems, especially EU members who are by the sea, meaning those who are on the Mediterranean Sea, who have developed tourism, which have nauticals, who come to their countries, I think they will have the same or similar problems, and that we are not talking about ferry and shipping traffic that will probably quickly move on to that alternative fuel. So I think that we could make a small step, and already now that we are in the assembly, these discussions are about alternative fuels and alternative fuel stations to propose this and, as such, to give such a solution to our law, and also to propose it to Europe, given that we still have to give an opinion on the regulation currently under discussion in the Council of Europe. I've asked a few questions, and I hope Mr. Secretary will answer those questions and we'll find a common language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93351	Next is the individual debate of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93352	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I'd like to highlight three things here through this individual debate. The first thing to explain again is what I asked the secretary of state, so what is it? We have different EU countries with different complex ministries, so we have a ministry that is responsible for the economy and for environmental protection, or sustainable development, whatever we want to call the Ministry in charge of Infrastructure, so it is clear that through the directive and everything else, the ministry in charge of the economy is also responsible for alternative fuel policy, so I am talking about alternative fuel policy for the investment and everything else. And the ministry in charge of infrastructure is in charge of this law, which speaks the Law on the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. So, what will be fuel, what in this sense will be policy for the Ministry of Economy, and this ministry is doing politics or dealing with the way and under the conditions where and how to set up chargers. And that is why this is that it is responsible for the administrative oversight of the implementation of this law cannot be a ministry in charge of energy but only that ministry in which the law is competent he will implement it and be in charge of supervision. I have to reflect a little on the inspection, so we have this great state inspectorate, and that inspectorate was almost the inspectors of the chief of all ministries, from the ministry of Minister Butkovic who was then and now the minister was not because he wanted the inspection or had the possibility of the inspection staying with him. I don't think it's bad, I think it's good, but about that. So, we need to know clearly about alternative fuels and how the market is going to develop, so the engine market will decide, the engines that are installed in sailboats, in boats, in, used in railways, used in road traffic, depending on a number of things they will decide either for further development or for hydrogen or for bio gas or some other option or on electric drive. It will depend on the market, technology and everything, and we have to track our infrastructure, so we won't be working on the infrastructure for fuel that's not there or who's not going to be with us, or if we decide that we're doing complete public transport on electric cars, so where's the power plant, so we're not going to do the chargers for what's not going to be the drive, but that's what I'd say some big world players. So, in Croatia we don't have production in this sense that, but the big world players will at some point be forced to decide and say the railroad will ić, I'm really talking like that out of the sleeve, at one point the entire railroad goes to hydrogen or it's going to say local transport, so local transport will decide to go to a combination of that and it will develop and we'll buy it on some market and you won't buy something that's not already been stalked and it's not done. And we do these chargers for what someone decided, not what we say now, we have to have three chargers like this, two like this, 26 of these, depending on how it happens. So, everything, it's getting stronger, I'm talking about the automotive industry, the electric-powered industry. Something that maybe, we've all had for many years, except for the secretary of state, he's from this younger generation, so we had an amendment to a law yesterday where we introduce cars without drivers. Think about it 10 years ago. We could see that in the James Bond movies, and it becomes reality. So, what am I saying? This is something absolutely in the sense that needs to be supported, but something that requires a serious debate and see what we will do in terms of our economy and policy decide to continue to develop. Someone else might decide for us because if there's gonna be development and if the ships you mentioned and the boats are gonna be on diesel today. They might be electric engines in the future, and maybe they won't, and maybe they'll be hydrogen, and maybe there'll be something about it. It'll depend on the charging infrastructure. It's an interesting subject for me, but I won't bother you anymore, and I don't have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93353	We have one replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93354	Your Honor, I must agree with you in most of your debate. What's a little confusing is that we're going to decide which chargers we're going to do, given how the world's engine industry is going to develop, and I agree with that. I don't think any of the alternative fuels are gonna miss us, and I think we're gonna have to have chargers for all the alternative fuels. But the question arises which dynamics will need to build charging stations for individual alternative fuels, given that this depends on what you said about what dynamics will actually develop engines for individual vehicles, that's the first thing. The other thing, what is actually a little disturbing for us who are here right now talking about the law, is these are these inspections that you mentioned and I need to ask you if you think it's enough time for all these inspections to be aligned and that after that the laws of the inspection service, that the law is passed and that inspection services and everyone else are doing normal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93355	Thank you very much. So, I don't, I don't have any dilemmas for the simple reason that this infrastructure is actually following other decisions. So it seems to me that it's all going to be okay together in that sense, just kind of seems like it's supposed to be formally put together. There's plenty of countries where both the economy and the infrastructure are together, so the same ministry, and then there wouldn't be this dispute here that I was talking about. But what's really a story, so in which, in which sense, it's going to go, so it's not electrical energy, so it's not like you're going to slip in and everything okay, so the electricity is being produced somewhere. Well, here we are recently, I myself told this speaker that we must make a decision that is our attitude towards nuclear power plants. Well, it's not like you guys have a little bit there, so that electricity is being produced somewhere and the way it's being produced is the theme of seeing the relationship to climate change and others. So it's all connected together somewhere, just in some movies at the end we come to zero, it's never zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93356	An individual debate between the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93357	Here is the conclusion, from this debate, I have concluded that what the market says is that alternative fuels, charging stations, if the interest markets show they will be made and that will be what the conclusion is simple what the state can do. I don't know what to do with the regulation. I don't know what to do with it, and that's what this part is about. So the market will show the chargers, the auto-industry will then and the big players will invest in the chargers, the state will make a commitment to what must be the harmonisation of laws and these standards and acts that must be harmonised and that is the whole story. However, I would point out once again that it is very important and important that the Ministry of Transport builds infrastructure for development and survival of mainly rural areas. And once again, I note that this is the most important since there is a young boy here who is currently busy with the talks, but also that is good, probably listens, that probably infrastructure is the most important means traffic infrastructure is important, important. I repeat once again mainly here I repeat for the Dalmatian Zagora this infrastructure is these vertical traffic circuits on the highway it is essentially bypassed in this way not only Sinj which I mention the Cetin end but the vrgorje end, the property end, the Knin end, the Drinj end of this area from Krka to Neretva which has lost 100,000 people since the County was founded, 100,000 people. And I was just following it, it's especially nice to know that in the Cetina area we only have growth in one settlement, which is on the Local Committee in Suhač by 1% is growth from Krka to Neretva only in one place. Now that I don't know, my colleague Sanader probably knows. Once again... Because of me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it could be. Once again I would point out briefly, this industry will do, the auto-industry, the state will make regulation, norms, and infrastructure is very important. And once again I repeat to the secretary of state you have the strength and the energy you have, so the Dalmatian Zagora is traffic-insulated we will start from Krka to Neretva and towards your end of the Straight Wheels and the links are very important, not to be promised, for example, as was the airport that will then be at... in Sibenik as it is called, so that according to Knin, some road, I know that there have been some promises made in the previous parliamentary campaign, but that infrastructure can draw close to the backs with the big cities, I repeat it can, and this legislation should be brought into line naturally with the market. The market will affect the construction of charging stations with alternative fuels in this case we're probably talking about electric cars, hydrogen probably the future, and if it is, and that's where all philosophy agrees. Someone roll up their sleeves together and do these projects so that there's not just a dead letter left on paper. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93358	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93359	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As already stated in the proposed law, the existing legal framework for the use of alternative fuels in transport and infrastructure development will be amended and complemented. It is certainly time to develop this necessary infrastructure to achieve the development of a sustainable transport system and reduce the negative effects for the environment. One of today's top priorities is to certainly build a climate-resistant future. We have already brought in a series of measures aimed at reducing the emissions of pollutants from transport, especially when we know that in total greenhouse gas emissions, 25% of which are generated from road transport. Therefore, we passed a law promoting road vehicles in road clear vehicles in road transport, we passed the Biofuels Act for transport, and now we have these amendments and additions to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. And I find it extremely important to coordinate the implementation of the entire eco package of these laws. We also have a national policy framework for the establishment of infrastructure and the development of the alternative fuel market in transport. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law as well as implementing regulations are harmonised with European legislation, we meet the obligations of the NOP, and we also consider the preconditions for further development of infrastructure for alternative fuels. This is important in order to successfully achieve a green transition and manage to realise climate ambitions by 2030, which is reduced emissions by at least 55%. The EU is working on revising its legislation in the area of climate, energy and transport in the framework of the package by 55% to bring the existing regulations in line with the 2030 and 2050 ambitions. A series of new proposals will be included in the package, so here we must be prepared to do everything we can to minimise oil dependence and mitigate the current negative impact on the environment. The EU is seeking to ensure the availability and usability of a wide range of infrastructures for alternative fuels across Europe and therefore it is crucial to adopt this bill in order to allow for the uninterrupted use of the vehicle on alternative fuels throughout the EU in the near future. This proposal for a law sets out the technical specifications for charging and supplying alternative fuels to be compatible with all vehicle technologies, as well as other technical specifications contributing to interoperability of transport. In the Republic of Croatia, alternative fuels used in transport are electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and natural and incinerated gas. Apart from gas and biofuels, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, other alternative transport fuels are used poorly and we still have too little non-useable means of transport, do not use oil derivatives. The Green Plan is not only an environmental policy it is an economic and geopolitical need, which is best seen right now as pandemics and economic turmoils have a significant impact on the economy and on the standard and life of citizens. The National Recovery Plan also brings reforms to Croatia's economic transformation, the criteria for the allocation of funds are projects that include green transition and environmental protection. For what is said today, and in order to achieve ambitious climate goals, I believe that all stakeholders and competent resolutions must contribute to its realization. It is our political commitment to help Europe become Europe's first climate neutral continent. As part of this and other laws in the area to encourage the production and use of alternative fuels in transport, all vehicle users on alternative fuels including vessels and aircraft should be able to move easily the EU using such basic infrastructure as highways, ports and airports, which requires full interoperability of this infrastructure. So finally, I want to say that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93360	Final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93361	Dear Chairman, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues here today we have heard a whole series of views on alternative fuel chargers, we have heard a little advertising about the road in Dalmatia, or in the hinterland, and I think that since we have heard a lot about it, there will probably be a high concentration of these alternative, full-scale alternative fuels. He won't mind a fellow Bull, you little joke. But I don't think in this law we need to discuss much more, we heard almost everything we had a number of articles of law that we need to change, which we need to adapt. What I would ask only Mr. Secretary to really answer those questions that we have asked, there are not many, we have 2-3 questions, and in particular my question whether we are late and whether we have received a reminder from the EU, given that we believe that we are a little late to comply with the directive which is currently in force, means Directive 2014/2019 and the question is whether we will succeed in adopting a new directive that will actually repeal this old directive at the same time, or whether we will put an old directive out of force by the time we adopt a new directive, whether we will be able to bring all our acts in line with this law, in particular the regulations, or whether we will be late, and perhaps even when we adopt those rules already have, we will already have a new directive that we will have to comply with. I hope that's not the case, but if that's the case, it would be good to hear it from Mr. Secretary. Its answer will also depend on our debate at the club where we will decide whether we will support this law, and we will also ask for information from committees to discuss the regulation on a new directive. So after that, when we sum up everything together, we'll make a decision on our club representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93362	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93363	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić injured Article 238, undermining the very significant road I mentioned, not only here but all these verticals. These are very important roads, part of the infrastructure that is very important for Dalmatia. I'm talking about the main Križice – Kukuzovac, it's a merger of the Cetina region with Split, so it's not crazy. It's a dream down the Dalmatians, that road. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93364	Okay, you're getting a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93365	Thank you, Vice President. Here, very briefly, the road will be. As far as delay is concerned, and the European Commission has no delays as you can see, this is a regular procedure, there is no, there is no emergency procedure, there are no pucks so here I hope you're satisfied with the answer and then at the club and you will support this law. Of course, I thank everyone for this, for this quality debate, all the quality suggestions and suggestions we will also follow in the final draft of the law. Here I expect we'll have a lot of support here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93366	Replica Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93367	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, the secretary of state said the road would be, let him say when it would start, as far as I'm concerned, enough for tonight. That would be knowing not only about me but about a lot of people in Dalmatia so I expect you to say, not maybe tonight, but here's the sooner you say it. As far as alternative fuels are concerned, I will repeat it once more, the market will determine, of course, that the state is obliged to regulate that market. Thank you, Lippa, for the charger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-17-0.u93368	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. number 246. Good night, all of you. Session adjourned at 22.14 p.m.
