ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102773	We're going to another debate, now it's time for a respected colleague, Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102774	Ladies and gentlemen. Last year, a liter of oil was 12.00 kuna, and now 19.00 kuna means the addition is over 50%, a liter of permanent milk was 6.5 kuna, and now it's 9.00 kuna harvesting over 50%, diesel was 8.90 now is 13.00 kuna harvesting over 40%. The salary of teachers in Croatia was 6,000 kuna, the salary of employees in Tisk was 4,700, and the average salary of Croatian police officers was the same as about 6,000 kunas and the salaries of nurses did not increase all of them except possibly in one-digit percentages. These figures, i.e. these facts testify to the dramaticity of everyday life of Croatian people, but they also testify to the insensitivity, incompetence and inadequacy of the ruling structures in Croatia. Does the Croatian government ask itself how Croatian people survive, does the Croatian government ask itself how Croatian people pay for their directors and school meals to their children, how they pay for prom and prom parties to their children? Is the Croatian government aware that its corrupt and illegal policies deprives the Croatian man of the right to a dignified life? The fundamental task of every government, every country in the world cares about the everyday life of its citizens. In the past few mandates, Croatian governments have only taken care of themselves and a narrow circle of usurpering powers that protect each other because these alarming and worrying figures would not be possible if even the Croatian state institutions functioned to the least. Due to the current crisis and in response to the price of oil derivatives, the German government, for example, introduced a measure called the 9 euro ticket. For 9 euros a month, all German citizens can be driven by a German railway in the territory of all Germany. Every day, Croatian citizens speak to me with dramatic information, for example. about the full rampage of electricity prices where individual restaurants, higher schools and companies get literally double the bills they had last month. Why is that? This is because all key state institutions are paralyzed and disabled in action, and instead of acting under the Constitution and the law, they are instrumentalised to act in the interests of individuals. For example, yesterday we learned that HANFE employees who need to oversee the Leasing houses and pension funds, etc., are trading financial products on the basis of insider information and are making extra money with their salary. TU HANFU is run by one of the role models of a certain Ante Zigman. A person from the incubator Martina Dalic, an architect of the Borg thief, who in every normal legal order would be processed, but in today's Croatia she is the director of Podravka. We had an identical abuse case a few months ago in the case of the CNB. This CNB is neither Croatian nor national because everything that this institution does, works for the interests of the summits around Boris Vujčić, and violates European and Croatian legislation together with banks in Croatia, disproves Croatian citizens and allows extra profits to banks. If Croatia had any functioning legal order of the CNB summit, it would have been processed long ago. I've been informed by IRS employees that there are restricted zones that the IRS can't enter. The tax administration may harass the guests on the Adriatic, farmers, maids on the salary, but thoroughly comb Zagreb Holding or Atlantic Group or Adris group or PPD to Tax Administration should not work. Also in the employment and labour market segment, a complete collapse took place because the state does not have any programme for seasonal employees. Neither in support of employers nor in support of employees. The result is that our qualified people in the catering sector must leave their home country, and the state without any strategy shares work permits. Today's government policy can be characterized as a train without a timetable in which train drivers and conductors in an open alliance with robbers rob passengers. Because if institutions in Croatia acted in accordance with the law and did their jobs then taxes would be lower, the labour market would be arranged, and this faceless corruption would not be possible but would be at the level of us similar countries, such as Austria, Germany or the Czech Republic. So you wouldn't be jeopardizing the daily life of her inhabitants. This illegal, anti-European and anti-Croatian action of Croatian powerful men is motivated by the selfish, self-loving and arrogant goals of these powerful men who keep the Croatian state and its citizens captives in chains of corruption for one single reason, which is that they could be wrongly enriched without being punished for it. But that's the end of it. I am convinced that we will fight for the rule of law, that we will overthrow this usurper group of powerful men that we will build Croatia as a well-organised, rich and stable European state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102816	Now, as the fifth, he will speak on behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia's esteemed colleague, Škoro, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102817	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bukarica. Unlike MP Karolina Vidovic-Kristo who believes that something will change in Croatia, I am sure he will not as long as this electoral model is in action and as long as the ratings show what they show. There is one side here in the Croatian Parliament which is very pleased with the way the Croatian Parliament works and, of course, the Croatian state. I've actually been encouraged by some articles in the daily newspaper about the activities of opposition deputies decided to use these five minutes to perhaps say something about what the opposition representative is. So it's interesting that here now when it comes to the most interesting part of the parliamentary debate, and these free speeches are in the assembly of twenty people. It would be the same thing if it were 151 people, so it doesn't matter. It all comes down to a Friday when at 12 o'clock, hands are raised. I think that here is basically a lot of things just wasting words, time, spending everything called resources and the Croatian Parliament burns some 145 million kunas annually. It is well-respected ladies and gentlemen, if one kindergarten in Zagreb is 22 million kunas, perhaps some 26 kindergartens that could be built in 4 years, because our presence here really doesn't mean much. Generally speaking, I was, say, the last time I talked here about an election scam in Garcino, and there was absolutely nothing going on. And you know what? Nothing's going to happen at all. Whatever you're saying won't happen because this country is basically ruled by a trade coalition headed by a Mr. Prime Minister sitting in his office and together with his closest associates deciding everything, and we're here to, well, I'd say we're wasting our time. The data doesn't work, the figures don't work, Croatia has 315 thousand health insurance companies more than its residents this year. Croatia has 3 888 529 inhabitants and 4 203 246 health insurance companies. We have the same 3 million 888 and some residents and 3 684 467 voters, so many told Mostu that these signatures should be collected, and the State Statistics Bureau says that 743 556 are young. Someone's lying. And nothing. So when it comes to the role of the opposition representative, he's a worker like everyone else, he's just his position as Parliament, and I'm doing a little bit of doing it, so I've even done a little research on what are the characteristics of a good worker, independence and independence, skills, knowledge and ability. Well, look at the agenda. We'll discuss traffic today, and then we'll discuss the right access to information, and tomorrow we'll talk about the audit, and then we'll talk about stock supplies, and then we'll talk about the home number, and they're all experts on everything. And they say the same thing, and they play the same game over and over and over again, and it's known exactly when someone's saying something, who's going to answer the line, and then something that should take a minute, two, three, lasts five, six, seven, ten. Ineffective and unnecessary. One of the essential elements of a good worker is that he has honesty, and I won't talk about it here and, of course, enthusiasm and motivation. And what is the motivation of the opposition representative? 2 274 amendments were submitted in the 10th session of the Parliament of 22 July. 372, 1,813 were rejected, so 80% were rejected, but it is important that 309 amendments were submitted on the ruling side and 27 that were rejected, and 1,786 amendments were rejected from the opposition MPs, and 73 were accepted. That's the data from April this year. So we opponents suggested 82% of these amendments, and 78% were rejected. What is motivation, in fact, and what is the point of being an opposition parliamentary representative? The issue of the number of representatives in general in Croatia is one issue that we must address. 151 MPs, Slovakia that sews us all has 150 and has 5.5 million inhabitants, why don't we actually give it to the Prime Minister to decide everything, as it decides, and we will [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It builds kindergartens. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102924	As the 12th in the name of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak for the esteemed fellow Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u102925	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we celebrated the Day of Croatian diplomacy and no one expects some special praises here for what Croatian diplomacy has done so far, and it has done much, but on the other hand it is unacceptable to moralise by those who consciously or unconsciously repeat the criticisms that Croatia and the West are pointing to today, for example. Sergei Lavrov. It is unacceptable to moralise from those who were in 2014 when it was necessary to clearly determine who was the aggressor and who the victim was on the side of the aggressor, who were saying Russia acted defensively, Putin had no choice but to take what he could, and that was the east of Ukraine and Crimea. So from these positions to moralize and criticise Croatian diplomacy or Croatian foreign policy today I think it is absolutely declassified, it may be the contents of some column in some Banja Luka newspapers, but it is certainly not the responsible foreign policy that we should be promoting and leading here today in this high home. The modern Croatian state was established with a clear goal of achieving its right to its national state and of course Croatian diplomacy and the Croatian state, under the direction of Franjo Tuđman, by understanding international circumstances and international order, which is why it even writes in the preamble of our constitution. And what understanding was there then? Yes, we all remember when the Secretary of State of the United States came to Belgrade and said that he did not want to recognise the unilateral, unilateral declarations of independence of Croatia and Slovenia at the time, whether we had closed down then, whether we had gone into conflict with the United States, no, we continued with our idea, declared independence, and Franjo Tudjman knew well that this policy should be changed, he opened the dialogue, and this relationship had changed very much, and it enabled, among other things, diplomatic preparation and any remaining preparations later for the Liberation Action Storm. So this is how serious, responsible and sovereign foreign policy is conducted. Today, we face new challenges, but the answer to this is not and cannot be a rock, Barba Putin's rock, but the answer can only be a clear foreign policy that Croatia sees as part of the West, which it sees as part of the EU, as part of the NATO alliance, as a national state that will know how to protect its interests, which is interested and will promote the equality of all three constituent peoples in BiH and thus protect them, of course and promote the interests and rights of the Croatian people in BiH, and it will do so in a way that it will watch how results come, and not how to have certain maybe political points on the internal plan. It's the only way you can run a serious and effective foreign policy because like John Fitzgerald Kennedy said you can't be stronger out there than you are at home. We are in this high home representatives of all Croatian citizens, representatives of the Croatian people, and we need to find this strength within our system, within our country that we can then also see this through our foreign policy and therefore from this pay phone we should not collect cheap points for internal combat but we are really looking for what is common good, which is to strengthen the positions of the Croatian state in the 21st century, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103019	Now she will speak as a tenth respected colleague, Oreshkovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103020	Good afternoon, everyone. Last week, I warned that corruption began in the elections by adopting non-existent votes by the HDZ, allowing them a bad and unconstitutional set of election units. Election units are designed to win HDZ corruption on them. Since the line of electoral units is the beginning and source of its hoax that has been going on since the elections, I have been proposing that the reform of electoral legislation be included in a special chapter of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which HDZ's power knows is being rejected. A speech in which I warned of the need for an urgent amendment to electoral legislation here in the Republic of Croatia was held in an almost completely empty assembly on Fridays as a common phenomenon. Last Friday, however, media warned of the empty assembly. So today I will point out that the corruption that starts in the elections continues through the dissatisfaction of the Croatian Parliament. The picture of an empty meeting of paintings is devastated by Croatia. This is Croatia directed by HDZ. In the same way and the same reasons the HDZ wins in the devastated Slavic counties of HDZ wins in the games that take place within these unfortunate walls, regardless of whether or not there is a parliamentary majority. The devastated assembly was created by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure and the mode of work of the Croatian Parliament is one of the HDZ forts. I therefore view the Rules of Procedure as the heart of a card game to be destroyed. The HDZ majority will not change the Rules of Procedure because the existing one suits him perfectly. He also likes that empty parliamentary representative because every empty chair creates and strengthens the impression with our citizens that we are all the same. Therefore, any unwarranted absence of opposition MPs also helps strengthen HDZ power because the difference between HDZ and the rest of Croatia is that HDZ voters always go to elections. They're motivated because HDZ is existentially bound. And for the opposition, whoever the opposition is, no one will vote in that number unless we are able to convince the citizens that we are better. As in the next 2 years HDZ will not change the course of election units, so will not change the unfortunate Rules of Procedure, which means that we particularly opposition MPs must change the practice within what exists. And that is exactly what I call on those opposition representatives who really work and justify their sense of existence in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Practice can't be changed if we don't send a message with our non-occurrence that what's being discussed here doesn't really matter. Today, for example, two final drafts of the law are on the agenda. We'll take positions on behalf of the clubs, submit amendments, but I'm asking how much we really listen to each other. One of the changes to the Rules of Procedure that I would advocate is that we introduce a rule that if there are not at least one-third of the parliamentary deputies present at the meeting to declare that there are no conditions to hold the debate at all. Furthermore, we have accepted the practice of keeping monologues, either for five or for 10 minutes, and no one is replicating anyone and there are no conditions to hold the debate. As far as I know, no opposition club has lobbyed or attempted lobbying with others to support its amendments on the day of the vote. So if we can't orally replicate each other because we have a limited number of replicas, let's introduce a custom to send each other to the club representatives of our amendment proposals, that at least on the day of the vote we know what this is about. Furthermore, the parliament lost its fundamental role and the property of the legislative body, we do not have our own legislative initiatives, the work on committees reflects the same majority that has positions and in the assembly itself. As long as we don't reduce the number of constituency committees, until we bring it down to some reasonable measure, the committees will serve to divide the armchairs and to give someone undeserved roles, to give them a false sense of importance, and in fact only additional different privileges. Most of them have their tangible material properties. The committees should be the main flight, the main debate on the content of a legislative proposal, and only when we reduce the number of these parliamentary committees and give it the content and importance that we should have may be able to build HS as one meaningful state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103090	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected counterpart, Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103091	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Just a few, I'm going to start with one rhetorical figure as well as my colleague Sacic, I'm not going to talk about it today, but I still have to touch some issues, which is violence against the LGBT population, and she unfortunately has colleagues and colleagues there and I can now list you five minutes of recent cases and it wouldn't be enough to list them all. But there's this verbal thing that's happening here and unfortunately in this high house. And I'm just gonna remind you that it's dr. Markotic suddenly became a great expert when it comes to monkey goddesses, but when it comes to covid, it is now those who declare her an expert who spoke of her not being very relevant. But, well, smart enough, I guess he's more of a talker. Every violence of a colleague and a colleague is about condemnation at the end, and a colleague of Skoro who is not here, perhaps if I educate him a little and tell him, the difference is that no one will insult him just because he loves someone or because God does not publicly say that he loves someone, which he and his likes do so. But colleagues and colleagues are not the subject I wanted to talk about in this free speech. In fact, the war in Ukraine continues to take place and, unfortunately, it will not end so quickly from this perspective. Unfortunately, this entails a whole series of other repercusions that we feel, sanctions on Russia, food supply chains, energy, global market disturbances, and then the inflation we've been talking about lately, and we often talk about importing the same. At the same time, unfortunately, in Croatia inflation is wild and it is a euphemism that I use for inflation because they officially say inflation is about 6% somewhere. But what does that mean to our citizens is that 6% when he or she comes into the store and they see that some of the basic foods have grown by 50% and 100%? My colleagues and colleagues, that's not 6% of them. So reality is much more brutal than statistics tell us. Unfortunately, even with the latest meetings with the prime minister, we read that there will be no shortage, unfortunately shortages can happen, any energy and possibly other products. We hope that it will not come to them, but it does not mean that because of the rise in energy prices will certainly be more expensive, everything will be more expensive and again we are in this chain of constant inflation. At the same time, we introduce the euro, so you don't take it wrong again, I'm in favour of introducing the euro, but I think we've cut the transition period too short and we've taken it extremely unseriously. Some made fun of me talking about, say, a Slovak approach that had been educating their public about the euro for almost two years, teaching them to recalculate, so I say again, recalculating, having black lists, encouraging those who miscalculated or collecting without reason to report them and so forth. None of this is going to happen with us, we're just going to move to the euro, two weeks are going to be mixed circulation and kunas and euros, and that's about it. However, hundreds of thousands of our citizens live on the edge of poverty, and I fear that inflation will not only affect them because of the euro but also because of the war and everything else. And this introduction of the euro is ultimately said by economic experts themselves, favours foreign capital, those with large salaries, traders, banks, but certainly not at least not at this time and at least not in this way. And what exactly is the point of this speech? The government took some measures yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, but the share of the fuel price burden in the country remains still more than 50%. Unfortunately, the measures we have seen so far have been extremely reactive, half-reactive and not systematic, and I am from this place telling the government that it is necessary to bring clear, systematic and consistent measures as quickly as possible to ease the inflationary pressure on citizens and the economy in order to overcome this crisis as easily as possible. If you do not have your ideas the opposition has begun to come up with its proposals, take something that has already been seen and during the covid crisis our proposals have refused to receive very similar from the ruling in a few weeks. We don't blame it in politics for no plagiarism, but please do something sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103165	Honorable MPs and MPs good morning. As every time at the beginning of the session, we have a position, the first is today's Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the esteemed colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103166	My colleagues and colleagues. Six years ago, BiH constitutional court decisions in the case of Ljubic, which prohibits Bosniaks from electing political representatives, same year Andrej Plenkovic became prime minister. That is why I recently asked the prime minister what is the situation and how long it has been since the election legislation has been amended in BiH. As I did not get an answer, I will try to answer the asked question myself and sum up the successes that Plenkovic's quiet or better said too quiet diplomacy has achieved in the last month. The first success is an invitation to the former US ambassador to Croatia, Peter Galbraith, at the Conference in Zagreb, organised by the MVEP for 30 years of international recognition of Croatia. In addition to Galbraith, Minister Grlic Radman, special advisers from Prime Minister Mate Granic and Vladimir Drobnjak, Dubravka Suica and others participated in the conference. Miroslav Tudjman dedicated the entire chapter of the book "Haški perjury" to the false and tenant testimony of Peter Galbraith against President Franjo Tudjman and the Croatian six in the case of Prlic and others. Miroslav Tudjman thus writes that the Hague court quotes "adopted Galbraith's statements that Franjo Tudjman was in the verdict overrun by the borders of Banovina hrvatska". On the basis of Galbraith’s testimony, the Hague court decided that “the verdict according to Peter Galbraith Franjo Tudjman was forced to give up his big Croatian programme. ” On the side of the ruling now to the Croatian six, could you not find and invite someone else to the 30th anniversary of Croatia's recognition? Couldn't you at HDZ have been informed of who Peter Galbraith was and he tried to block Operation "Storm" in President Tudjman's office the day before it began by agreeing that the United States was opposed to "Storms"? The attempt to prevent military operations was testified in The Hague court and former Ambassador Miomir Zuzul, and Galbraith later admitted that he was not telling the truth. What would happen to Croatia if Tudjman had bought the Galbraith trick that was brought in 30 years after Plenkovic and Grlic Radman as a great friend? Why so much intruding to American officials where they should and where they should not and those who testified against Franjo Tudjman as someone who "created a great Croatia"? So much for Tudjman's legacy in HDZ. The second result of Plenkovic's explanation to our strategic partners refers to the draft of the Bundestag resolution, the same day that German Chancellor Scholz and Plenkovic held a meeting in Berlin on the Bundestag committees was presented with a draft resolution of the ruling German coalition. The resolution calls on the German government to ask Serbia and Croatia to distance from the nationalist and separatist forces. Why did the Croatian side not immediately invite the German ambassador to consult and ask for an explanation of the scandalous document in which Croatia and the unjustly called representatives of the Croats to BiH? The third result of the overly, more precisely the mutative diplomacy, we had a chance to see at the beginning of the week. Let me quote last year's statement by Minister Grlic Radman, "We look forward to working with Christian Schmidt and we are sure that together with the EU and the United States, legitimate representatives of the constituent people will encourage compromise." As a fruit of the joy of this co-operation, the SDP imposed sanctions on the president of the Federation of BiH and BiH Vice-President Marinko Cavari yesterday, and yesterday the High Representative for BiH Christian Schmidt is a forced decision on financing the general elections to be held in the autumn under unconstitutional electoral law, despite all strategic compasses and promises by Prime Minister Plenkovic that elections cannot be held under the old electoral law and belief that they advocate and explain to our partners. Why does Schmidt, who is part of Plenkovic's family and Šuičana's family, not impose amendments to electoral legislation but impose decisions on financing elections under the unconstitutional electoral law? Obviously, this anesthetizing that some call silent diplomacy has produced no results. I don't know if you in HDZ are even aware of the existing situation and the catastrophic damage if this trend continues? What do you do? The HDZ government does not want to hear a veto on Finland and Sweden's NATO membership until the election law is changed in BiH, while NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg calls for Turkey's reserves to be taken into account as Finland and Sweden enters the defence alliance. NATO enlargement is primarily a US project, and we currently have a problem with US diplomacy in BiH and this problem needs to be solved if we are allies. We're acting like vasals right now, and if we keep on doing that, we're gonna get treated like one. In short, the wiper's chatty in nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103242	And we're going to the last reported debate, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Raukar Gamulin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103243	Thank you very much. So Croatia is really a land of wonders and unsuspecting possibilities, there is no end or end to resourceful and skilled people, people who create fantastic talent and perseverance for themselves and several future generations of their families. With incredible precision they always use the same formula that is infallible, use the public and turn it into private. It goes to ours, whatever they touch turns to gold, working and modest from day to day from month to month from year to year from 10 years to 10 years persistently without end and ending up turning public into private. Fearless are the Nejmari of the Croatian present and the future, no one and nothing can stop them, as one goes, two new ones are already there, and our government with care and mother care is careful that these easily acquired knowledge and skills are developed and passed on from one to another so that this happy line never ceases. It was only a little quiet around the CNB and their bond trading, 58 geniuses who got along well, and the prime minister placed in the wind a similar Ćorić who, despite the phone calls even Hrvoje-Šipek had to do a little research when there was a master from NANFA, Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. 89 masters traded securities contrary to the Capital Market Act under the watchful eye of their director Ante Zigman, and otherwise these laws are a little limited to all these Croatian talents of turning the public into private, but as we see recently, the work has been done in this field to reduce the impact on the most talented and most potent Croatian group called take, kidnap, lie, steal, smudge. Let us remind ourselves once again what HANFA, the state regulator in charge of securities and financial markets, and determines whether there has been illicit trading of securities, conflicts of interest, trading of privileged information or in general, infringements of the Capital Market Act. According to the law, it is clear that HANFA employees are required to report securities trading and are not allowed to trade securities with companies that oversee and related companies in order to exclude criminal persecution for conflict of interest and trade in privileged information. After the employee reports the transaction, the Management Board of the HANFA must determine whether there is a conflict of interest for each individual transaction. But our brave Croatian people from HANFA didn't just get distracted so easily. They reported only any other transaction, courageously opposing a legal provision that considered it a serious injury that should end in the end. They reported those 953 securities transactions, but those brave ones, the best ones, they didn't report at least 711 transactions. A total of 89 HANFA employees were not allowed to trade, 53 of them remain employees of the regulator. And seven employees are real heroes. They were in responsible positions in HANFA, and from these positions they cared for their families and were valuable to their sons and daughters, grandchildren and grandchildren, great-grandsons, great-grandki, great-granddaughters, etc. And how could it not be if our government tells us, push, push, push, move, almost disappear, with a sum of 16 500 kuna to fight corruption, Andrej Plenkovic and the team calls for more active and masseuse involvement in this luxuriant business in which, at times, only sometimes, there are very few legal problems, but my people, who do not risk, do not profit. And so we have a new 79 geniuses, masters, heroes of corruption, fraud, theft and lies at the State Financial Services Control Agency. Dear Zlata, do we have to report it personally or will it be enough all black on white on the Ilko Cimic pen index? Mr. Plenkovic, will you pick up the phone now and call our Gold to do something about it? Well, the question in which direction, to protect a brave Croatian man or perhaps, perhaps, perhaps, after all, to arrest her, pardon her, not to warn me, so to launch a reconnaissance that will result in a criminal prosecution for criminals who have stolen, cheated, lied to all of us incompetent citizens of this country who have untalented and stupidly pay taxes, VAT and other taxes [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] /Speaker disabled./... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103244	When you talk about the arrest, be very careful, I see that around Zagreb, I see that everything is going on around Zagreb. ... Yes, it is. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not upset, but you're upset about what's going on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Sacic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103315	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Here, today we will not speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club and look back at the grand and beautiful gathering of Croatian Catholic youth at Dinamo Stadium, more than 50,000 people lived here, gathered in peace, prayed, for the improvement of Croatia. We won't talk about Pride, the gay Pride which was held at the same time, who achieved the effect he had achieved in the Croatian public, but we could look back at that state television, Croatian television has not devoted a second of one to a set of 50,000 people, HTV, the shame may be on you. HDZ, change, act, name, name, name, you have a program of democracy, where is democracy? What leads? We are not going to talk today about any LGBT studio M going on, be careful now, my friend, with, in cooperation with the Faculty of Philosophy, to raise our children from 3 to 6 years old to this, under quotes, gender equality, or I don't know what they call it in Croatia, please nice, democracy, di exists, where every man, life, is precious, don't need to, let's not even record any violence against people who have other sexual orientations, but we don't want to agree that someone is rearing us, that we're re-creating our culture, style, lifestyle, and from kindergarten to what age we don't know. So I'm not going to talk about it today. We'll talk about it another time. It is a shame that our government is democratic under President Plenkovic, Minister Fuchs, as Spain agreed to, please, and Portugal. And what am I going to talk about today? Well, I'm going to talk about a lot, a lot, a lot of the same important topics, which is the anti-urban defense of the Republic of Croatia, our farmers who are actually a set of different circumstances to the greatest extent of negligence and listening to Brussels bureaucrats who measure cucumbers and look at which angle they are eventually surrounded by what Brussels leaders listened and came to the conclusion of any Croats, so we don't need farmers any anti-urban defense. You just make sure in the insurance companies and fingers in the ear, corn will grow, vineyards will bloom, vegetables will have candles, everything will be as Kekin's says this will all be, I don't know how either. Now, unfortunately, history and experience have been telling us that since 2001, this law has been passed in the Vukovar-Srijem County and in Požega and Zagorje, our Croatian and Međimurje and Imotska region, we have suffered enormous damages. They are annually I am a member of this Committee for the Assessment of Damages here Croatian State, the budget only for these damages when the elemental disaster is declared 30% must be. Only the state of Croatia pays more than 150, 160 million a year to those unfortunates because insurance companies do not protect them, up to 20% protect them from fighting. But what is it? He protects them from fighting, gives them 20% but no corn, no wheat, no wine, no grapes, no flowers, no onions, no food. The state insurance company doesn't cover it. So we have sustained damage, we have actually caused the non-refundable, and we cannot put nets on the whole of Croatia. How am I going to get a net on my vineyards when I'm 55 degrees with my beard on my knees, where I'm going to put a net, and it's 50%. We're not all in a position to be in Istria and I don't know in the plain we have everything straight, so you put a net and you don't have a problem even though it's a problem. So we made a mistake. We can make it right. Dispose of the State Hydrological Institute of that study, it's no good, let's go to experts who say that 20 million kuna should be invested annually in an effective system that rocketry, which is what reagent and we have economic cost-effectiveness 20 million beware opposite 150 million minimum. And that system needs to be removed operationally and from the State Hydrometeorological Institute, placed under the supervision of civil protection, because they're the only ones, it's a natural disaster like a flood, a fire, anything else and a fight. And civil protection has to do it. And the DMZ has to give information about everything else. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103316	Thank you, fellow Sacic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103317	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. In fact, we're not gonna talk about refurbishing and stuff, so let's leave it for another time. But I have to react when my colleague Sacic says there's no violence against LGBT persons. He's got it all right. There are still discrimination, there are still physical attacks, there are still many prejudices that perhaps education needs to solve, so the fellow Sacic himself by social media says that monkey goddesses are gay diseases and similar things that I don't think have, there's no room in...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103318	Your colleague Hajdukovic knows that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, you are being warned. You have the right to speak for five minutes, you could say that in the context of that, and now this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Here's your colleague Sacic with the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103319	... attacked and insulted in front of the Croatian public as a discriminatory. [[Specially enabled.]] Article 238 has been injured. Mr. Collar, the monkey goddess has, in the words of Professor Alemka Markovic, put it in context, put it in the context of the gay population. Please, nice! Please, the highest authority... [[Break president: colleague Sacic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103320	.../Adversity President: Comrade Sacic, you also get a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103321	And why is that? Why is it my fault now? Well, he told me, he insulted me. [[The Incursion President: Because you are replicating, and you are not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103322	He received his colleague Hajdukovic's warning, and you also received a warning because this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you are replicating a subject on which you have different views. My colleague Škoro and you would like to get involved? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103323	And I'd like a warning, Mr. President. I'd just like to supplement Mr. Hajdukovic's article 238. So it's not entirely true that there's violence against the LGBT community, because one part of the violence is happening in the LGBT community itself, so here's the public doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103324	My colleague Škoro and you are being warned. This was also a replica. We are going to the third debate, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed colleague Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103438	My colleagues and colleagues, after last week on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club for this speaker, presented a proposal to take away Croatian citizenship, even some colleagues from the assembly felt called out and recognized themselves in the description of those who should be left without a passport or as they say passport. There was a media retaliation on my smallness and the Homeland Movement from Belgrade to Zagreb. The handwriting on both fronts is the same. They're the same names as the portals that call me, but the financiers aren't. Belgrade's News, which were identified as a threat by Milorad Pupovac, is funded by Vukic and Ana Brnabic, and the Zagreb News quoted by Milorad Pupovac is funded by Plenkovic and Nina Obulen. It's both of these, I'd be ashamed if I hadn't been released, you'd be really ashamed. The legislative proposal to take away Croatian citizenship for all those who threaten our national, security and subdue the foundations of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia is already in the making of a legal team of the Homeland Movement. We have no illusion at all that such a law can be passed without changing the Constitution, but the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures, it can change if it has political will and wit. And just because I already pointed out last week, for example, the Austrian Social Democrats that could be seen by colleagues on my left, now follows the message to HDZ deputies. Instead of supporting a healthy initiative and a legal proposal that should be in your interest, given the sanctities to which you like to be invited, you continue to tolerate and financially support the enemy press and stands on which four Croatian pilots are practically tried at the centre of the Croatian capital, according to Belgrade. And what has been done by the HDZ and SDP governments so far, including the current Plenkovic government, to bring to justice the JNA aggressor pilot, who was on November 7th, '91. in the middle of a white day in the centre of Bizovac where there were no military targets dropped the bomb and killed 11-year-old boy Dragan Cvetkovic. Throwing a group of Croatian civilians in a square where there were no fighting vehicles, no tanks, no transporters, 6 more people were killed including 3 Croatian police officers, and 20 civilians were seriously wounded. I don't think it is necessary in particular to point out the sad truth that Dragan's mother, Rose and Brother Dalibor, never welcomed justice, which is only a small fraction of the great shame of the Croatian judiciary. Gentlemen of the HDZ, we Croatian defenders are already in pain of laying crowns and burning candles in the monuments of our comrades whose murderers have never been processed or adequately punished. We have already embraced your rituals in front of the cameras, and the families of the victims have already deafened from your false promises that year after year on various sites from Vukovar to Dubrovnik repeat like parrots. Stop with the demagogy and stop deluding this troubled people. To begin, support our legal initiative to take away Croatian citizenship from our enemies. Ask Vukic if Brussels doesn't defend you where our people have gone. Insist war damages for the destroyed Croatian towns and villages, for the campers of Serbian concentration camps, for 402 killed children in the Homeland War including small Dragan Cvetkovic, but also for children killed in the rocketling of Slavonski Brod, which the Pupovec spokesman says were killed by Croatian aircraft. I still expect Sljivancanin and Stanimirovic to come and say that we killed Croatian wounded in Ovcara, that is all I expect and that I was in the firing water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103525	Now it's on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103526	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. I often spoke about the benefits of mother tongue education. After that, there were necessarily injuries to the Rules of Procedure, condemnations, one word of disdain for making views based on positive regulations in our country. I have often highlighted shortcomings, criticised myself, opposed attitudes of those who do not understand the need to preserve 3 key identities of every nation, including members of national minorities, which are language, letter, and religion. Likewise today, with pride and joy, I am talking about the success of the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia. Yesterday, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina accepted the initiative of the Croatian National Council to form a Croatian school centre and a general type of gymnasium as part of it. This commendable decision was supported by 91 representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly, and four were against it. The reasoning of the decision states that an analysis of the existing situation regarding the education of students in Croatian as a mother tongue and a desire to improve the quality of education has identified the lack of an appropriate institution that would cover all levels of education of the Croatian national minority in the mother tongue. I fully agree with the view that the proposed education and education centre would be an institution that develops intellectual abilities, cultivates cultural and religious heritage, points to value, willingness for professional life and life in the community of the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia. The school centre should be opened not far from the centre of Subotica in an object that was returned to the Catholic Church in Serbia in the process of restitution of church property. Soon afterwards, the opening of kindergartens and the establishment of elementary school at the Croatian school centre would follow. That there is nothing going on for the minorities is easy for us to confirm that the Croatian National Council launched the topic of the draft Croatian school centre in 2017, and at the beginning of this year, the government of Vojvodina proposed to the Assembly to give consent. I congratulate the Croatian National Council on perseverance and look forward to the success of their multi-year struggle to achieve the rights of members of the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia. I also wish them full classrooms of children who will attend mother tongue teaching by keeping their identity features. And this time I'm going to say what I've said before even though after that I've been convicted and criticized, no, this is not segregation or ghettoization at all. This approach is merely a guarantee of the preservation of the identity of a nation who has lived in a given area for centuries. That's why we in the SDSS will be the first to support these and similar initiatives for a simple reason, it's hard for anyone to understand ourselves better than we minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103566	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Hajdas Doncic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103567	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I will re-inflation as once, I will say, one phenomenon that has not been in Croatian society and in European society, the European community, well, good past 20, 25 years. So we're talking about economic terminology, so-called Speedy inflation, which I hope the European Central Bank and European bureaucrats will therefore do everything to avoid another worse idea, i.e. ... But they were alive and saw how our bureaucrats from the EU Commission, under quotes, would say our bureaucrats, actually react because times are challenging. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that in Croatia inflation is exclusively imported character, meaning that it depends on the price of energy and actually something called the drop in supply chains, but we also need to be aware that although inflation is forecasted this year around 9%, that this inflation will not be the same and the same for all. So people with low incomes, low incomes, so for them, that inflation is 15 to 20% because only if you're looking at a basket of consumer goods, you notice that actually food and energy are the highest of their prices. So almost 20% and that's where the problem is now because you had a budget rebalance that was exclusively intended to meet the master criteria and introduce the euro. I've asked the question and I'm going to ask it and now, why are we a team, at a pace I'm going to say, we should reduce both deficit levels and public debt levels? That wasn't necessary at all. So we could leave ourselves space just for these times of crisis to help the most vulnerable groups, and that can only be done with direct supplements or subsidies. Therefore, the SDP proposed yesterday a comprehensive set of economic measures, including both energy and pensioners and entrepreneurship and citizens. When I mentioned inflation, I said it wasn't the same for everyone. So the most endangered social group, if that's what I can call it, are the pensioners. I'll repeat and repeat the same question, why hasn't the pension adjustment formula changed? Why not take a 100% share of the consumer price index, so if at the beginning of the year retired for 1000 kuna he could buy a certain basket of food products, from oil, flour, toilet paper, it would be in the interest of the state to buy the same basket of goods at the end of the year, but provided that the indexation of pensions was on the consumer basket, that the real value of his money remained the same. And now he didn't have the same because actually pensions, the increase in pensions doesn't follow inflation growth or vice versa. So that's the first proposal. Also, no one thought about it through energy supplements. So I'm saying it's not fair and I'm saying it as a Social Democrats that it's not fair, so you get so-called. an energy subsidy without being limited to how much energy you are, whether it's gas or electricity you're actually spending in the household. So you can get 40 lip subsidies and you don't want to spend 500 or 1000 units, so you had to make a basket as much as the average household has the right to subsidize and thus encourage citizens to act more responsibly, so I'm going to tell someone, something called energy efficiency. Well, then we can give him a bigger subsidy to that because this turns out to be one of those populist measures, let's give it all to everyone. And third thing, which I definitely don't understand, why don't we use the coasts for the solar revolution? So now we're going to import energy from gas or coal, pay it shamelessly expensive, and instead of loosening the whole process of putting photovoltaic cells on it. That's, that's, that's some of from our proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103755	Now, as fourth, they will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformist, respected counterpart Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103756	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The last 10 days of Zagreb are again day-to-day echoing explosions. Although we discussed the ATM problem behind this pay phone less than three weeks ago, the situation has not improved, but has worsened. Every week there are new cases, new explosions and millions of damages, and the police are almost powerless, and it is fortunate that no one has ever been killed. On May 30th, an ATM was blown up in Novi Zagreb, an ATM was blown up in Gajnice on May 31st, two ATMs were blown up in Zagreb's Folnegovic settlement on June 1st. It's mostly about obvious culmination, because ATMs have become significantly more common targets than in the last year, given that over a period of only 5 months, as many as 20 break-ins have been reported, and of which 19 have been caused by explosions. All this would not be problematic if we here in the Croatian Parliament in April last year adopted the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, and this law remained a dead letter on paper just as unfortunately and numerous other laws. We bring in a large number of objectively quality laws that never become life-saving because their application is not supervised. In particular, as the ATM is concerned with the shifts, it is not noticeable which shows almost daily black statistics, as some banks oppose saying this expensive introduction of active electrochemical protection. I find such an explanation of banks as well as the failure to comply with their legal obligations unacceptable because it directly endangers human lives and causes material damage. Given that the security of citizens and their assets is a fundamental legitimacy and the purpose of the State's supervision and action of the implementation of the prescribed protection, it is an imperative obligation not only to avoid or bypass but also to meet it zealously. Banks have obviously failed to fulfil their legal obligation to introduce electrochemical protection because otherwise, attacks on ATMs and endangering the security of citizens would surely cease. In that case, the money from the ATM would become unusable to detimise further attacks on ATMs. The same case we actually had with an attack on armored vehicles. That is why I call on the Ministry of the Interior, the competent authority to urgently start monitoring monetary institutions, i.e. banks and determine whether they implement a legal obligation introduced in this House last year. So far, banks have largely failed to meet their legal obligations regarding the proper protection of their ATMs. Otherwise, only one in a series of dead letters on paper will remain the best intention of the legislator and the law provides for protection. In this regard, the public and we, as legislators, expect urgent action and immediate changes for the purpose of general well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103770	Now it's my friend Zurovec's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u103771	Thank you. Here's my speech may be with a little less violence, but with more technical information that's pretty much related to how our institutions don't work. I would refer to Mr. Skor as saying what's the point of being of course in the opposition. Well, the point is to point out sometimes what's good, but also, in most cases, to point out what's wrong, and unfortunately in this country, there's a lot that's metastasized and a lot that's gone in a completely wrong direction, so I would say one important item, and in all our lives, not just in our institutions, which is time. The time that passes to correct certain things, the time that maybe some of Overton's windows move in the direction we want whether it's left or right. Well, it's also time to get rid of certain things. I watched just recently interviews how our dear water supply and disposal of the city of Zagreb solve all requirements in 90 days. I'm responsible here for saying that this is such a lie, that it offends anyone who has any salt in their head. In fact, my citizens wait a year to literally dig up something that is 1 metre long, and in the end, when they do so themselves, they have a period of reminders and punishments that are several thousand kunas, and operationally it may be worth several hundred kunas. That's the problem with these institutions of ours. And now it's one very naked, one very vivid example, but let's move on. We have these cities, we have sports communities, cultural communities, you know who you are or the mayors or the mayors of how they work. Money is provided in the city, funds are provided in the budget, and the sports community makes a programme based on its needs, these funds are set up through competitions, and it serves as a single water heater in order to place the funds towards associations. But the moment that mayors or mayors are not exactly up to those associations is when things happen, as is unfortunately happening in the town of Gospić where I received a memo from athletes who were still sent on 16 February 2022. So it's been a few months, and maybe it'll be a while by the end of the year, and those athletes who were supposed to get the Budget Law, but also by breaking the law, 76 of the Sport Act, they don't see the money they need for their action. Time will pass again, money will be spent illegally again, and what is the worst institution will not react. Also, I'm going back to this first example. For example, my citizens are charged with a purifier in Zagreb, and people have no sewers at all. So you charge something you don't use. And then you report it to the water service council, they look at you palely, they have no idea what you're talking about, and eventually this kind of value for the money you're supposed to get isn't coming back. We watch sports, we watch infrastructure, we watch state institutions, so it doesn't work. And that's why there's this opposition whether we're left and right or in the center I think we should point out, we should highlight these examples in Gospić. I also call here the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, which conducts surveillance from their responsibilities, are, where these four months are. I also call on the water supply and the drain you're lying to, whoever you're petting your eyes to last here in 90 days. I responsibly say it lasts a year. Recently, a company had built its entire hall before, introduced machines that came from the Middle East through the Netherlands before they were literally attached to the water that was 10 meters away. Well, it's a living shame for this country. It is a shame for the City of Zagreb and for that company. Not to mention the use of EU funds. We had a report last week that we were very successful, that we're expecting billions of dollars. Do you know how this has spread in the city of Zagreb over the past 7-8 years? Of course, there should also be an opportunity for the new government to make things right, but if it continues at such a pace we will remain zero euros through European funds in the Croatian capital at least for the part that is related to agglomeration, which is what is a shame. And it's a shame for all of us here. So, Mr. Skoro for that opposition exists, we have to highlight things that are wrong, we should always talk about things that need to be changed, and that's why we're still here. And besides, it's not bad for us to make a move here and there, so maybe there'll be some corrections in this assembly, and I believe, of course, in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114014	We are now going to our agenda: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on road safety, second reading, P.Z. No. 214; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 214. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I would ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill. With us is Secretary of State Zarko Katic, but before that we have several requests for a break, the first is the fellow Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114015	Thank you, most esteemed Mr. President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the House Movement Club because we want to draw attention once again to the fact that such a final proposal for amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act is completely unskilled and needs to be restored to another more serious work. Of course, we're talking about art here. 37 of these amendments and additions to the Law, in particular pages 3 and 4. We know ourselves in our public space, there are very, very, very many comments on the fact that family medicine doctors will have, after insight into the health condition of patients, the same medical condition in case it is suspicious, report to the police, or report to the police that they are at risk of driving skills. Not only do we mention drivers who may have problems with excessive blood pressure, diabetes or similar, I would like to remind you that in Croatia we have a number of defence populations who are suffering from PTSD receiving certain pharmacotherapys that could potentially lead a family doctor to withdraw a driver’s license, i.e. to ask the Ministry of the Interior. We would like to point out once again that this law is not good, not only in this part, but also in a few other parts, and we suggest that it be returned to work together, of course, with competent institutions, with doctors and with medical profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114016	The apartment is approved. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114017	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to point out once again that the proposer of this Act, especially in the section relating to health checks on drivers, is in Article. 37 once again proved that the ruling world does not respect the opinion of professions, medical associations, patients' associations and oppositions at all. A wasteful public consultation, a wasteful thematic session we held on the board, a wasteful debate in the first reading. You in the woods, we in the road. You on one ear inside, on the other outside. You have to change this law because it's wrong. What you prescribe will not solve road safety, and there will be irreparable damage to our citizens' health and health. It is tragic that traffic experts, police and the judiciary are unable to solve the problem of too many road accidents, but the problem, as you suggest, should be addressed by doctors, especially family doctors. The biggest cause of road accidents is too fast, mobile and alcohol, not temporary changes in health conditions. The only doctors authorised to approve driving are specialists in medical work. Why doesn't the Republic of Croatia look up to other states that have an orderly way of issuing permits, who can lose their license temporarily, what health conditions? Why don't you look up to these countries? We all switch to doctors especially family doctors, and unless the patient is reported to be subject to possible criminal responsibility. Of course the patient should be warned, it should be listed in the medical records, but not reported to the police in the way you imagined. This bill violates the trust between a doctor and a patient, doctors will warn a patient, but patients in fear of being punished or being left without a driver’s license will not even speak about what medicines they are taking, what their health conditions are, so their health will also be impaired. So this law is wrong. you destroy the relationship between the doctor and the patient. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114018	Thank you very much. The break is approved. Comrade Zurovec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114019	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Focus Club and the independent MPs, I am looking for a break on what my colleagues have said and what they have made very clear. By this law, we will violate the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. Namely, family doctors cannot give you confidential information about their patients. Also, we have problems with medical personnel anyway, we have medical problems, this way I'm very interested in who wants to be a family doctor who's going to be different from his patients the way he unfortunately gets lucky or doesn't get lucky with the police. Also, everyone must be responsible for their behavior inside the traffic. Finally, if the family doctor is something and prescribes it again, the patient may take some medicine on his own and may endanger traffic again. We also have problems with the police, we lack the basic police. So that's something that should also be pointed out in public space. If we're short on the basic police force, who's gonna check out all those unconscious drivers? Also if we don't have the police that we're going to have a normal order within this country. Let's move on, what are your rights as a police officer when you have to react as well? We don't even have that part solved. So here with one law, we're not going to solve one problem, but we're going to make about a dozen more. Also for these working skills is medical work, not family doctors. In this way we will only further reject the profession, we will have additional likely eviction and departure of doctors from this country. Please review this law once again and please think again about whether we want to pass such a law or there is still room of course that it is upgraded in a proper way that will serve us all in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114020	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute IDS Club to further consult and warn us of some things. In relation to the first reading, we note that practically none of the proposals are accepted not only by the opposition, but also by the representatives of the health profession. And what happens now, what will we have consequences for? A small number of medical examinations, a lack of confidence in the doctor – patient, a cover-up of changes in medical condition by a patient, leading to devastating consequences on their health especially in some chronic and severe diagnosis. Also, the law itself is clear to all so many of them warning professional people will be harmful, it will not reduce the number of severe traffic accidents because we know that traffic accidents with the most difficult consequences, they are most affected by speed, alcohol inexperience, non-compliance with traffic regulations, inconsistency in driving, and far below 1% actually 0.002 if I am not wrong about changing my health conditions. And I'm curious about how those situations are because a number of medicines that also affect the ability to drive can be obtained without a prescription and it goes beyond the profession and past the knowledge of the doctor or enters their database. But if it wasn't just the subject of this medical section, I'd still be interested in the other one in the traffic itself. The law's okay for some things, but where's our transport infrastructure? She's not following these new trends at all. What about the accompanying traffic primarily for romobile drivers, bicycles, how many kilometers of such trails are designed in Croatia, are they preparing for European funds, are they already running? While there is danger, as we walk on foot in some urban areas to be shot down by a romobile or a bicycle and on the other hand, while there is a danger in rural areas while we are on a bicycle or a mobile to be shot down by a motor vehicle all together, that law will not solve this one either. Not everyone else who's tied to it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114022	Thank you very much. The break is approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114023	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Most Club, we are looking for a 10 minute break to further consult on this law. One of the main shortcomings in these laws is that with this law doctors will have to become spies. It's gonna have to be part of that collaboration network and coming into collage with the rest of your call, which is a medical secret. And that the basic data on the patients themselves cannot be reported and sent to the police themselves. And if it's already been amended by this law, we as the MOST Club don't see why we didn't go into the British model where there's an interdisciplinary agency that will also include medicine, including police, will include insurance houses and such an independent body to make decisions on who's capable of driving a car and who doesn't. Furthermore, this law is also discriminatory because nowhere in the law mentions or regulates the relationship of private clinics and health homes. Which means that someone who has better property status will be able to go and buy their driver's license until someone who does not will be able to go to a health care home and will be afraid to go to a checkup for the reason that 30% of the probability is now calculated and 30% of the population in the Republic will be affected. Both ordinary drivers and drivers of emergency, emergency medical care, as well as drivers of public urban and intercity transport, etc. Furthermore, what you have done with this law is that you have brought all responsibility to the Doctors of Family Medicine for the reason that now that they are betrayed in fact, they will have to protect themselves, so there will be no more trust with doctors, there will be no more treatment but to protect them in any possible situation so they will issue solutions to protect themselves. Neither did you protect our drivers, nor protected your profession and further quarrelled the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114024	Thank you. The break is approved. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114025	Dear President, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to make sure that our colleagues and colleagues, as well as the Croatian public, express dissatisfaction with the proposed text of the bill, in particular in the part which wishes to actually impose an obligation on family doctors to put past any medical and medical ethics, logic and legal obligations in an extended manner, police prosthesis to combat crime in traffic, i.e. in this case, traffic delicacies. Because we think that apart from being comparatively viewed almost nowhere in Europe in that form there are no, and where there are terrible criticisms and getting out of that path, the wrong way, the blind streets out. We believe that this provision with our constitutional and legal values is in collegiate with other laws, because doctors are bound by medical secrecy, and one provision of this kind of road safety law can't be derrogated, and that is because there are no material and technical conditions for this. Most people who normally perform all their tasks regularly are treated in transport, but therefore remain responsible for traffic. However, those who are out of range and treatment and doctors are the most common, and there is the highest authority of the police traffic. So please withdraw that proposal, it is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114026	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114027	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, so I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Club For a fair Croatia to further analyse and warn the public of a very unusual law that generally inaugurates the transfer of the responsibility of the MUP to doctors. But by the way, you know that we and the board have talked about when they start wearing helmets, when they don't, who doesn't wear them, when they're wearing protective reflective vests in what situations you're wearing, so you've come to appreciate something about it. You did not appreciate our suggestion that bicycle drivers and other traffic vehicles that are being driven by road users and should be provided in some way because they can cause major damage accidents and even casualties. However, as far as the doctor is concerned, I know that you will say that a medical condition is not entered in the register and thus protects the doctor’s obligation not to speak about the health condition of his patient, but only introduces a provision which is based on someone being banned from driving a vehicle because of taking a medicine or a health condition. There's a doctor sitting next to me. I'm sure there's a little bit of drugs in the traffic and in optics that don't say that it doesn't affect the ability between other things and driving a motor vehicle. And I think the problem is that you've imposed fines for doctors from 5 to 10,000 kuna. You have thus opened a Swedish table for insurance houses which will then blame doctors for a lot of what happened, and you do not have what is necessary and this is statistical data on how much the accident is caused by the consumption of the medicine. So I think we should think about it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114028	And we have another request, Comrade Hood, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114029	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club. Heavy words from spies, medical reports, medical secrets, concerns that anyone who has diabetes, epilepsy, is allergic to the fact that from the day of the introduction of this law or the adoption of the regulations in a year will no longer be disturbed on the road, he will no longer be allowed to drive. If you have diabetes and you can be a pilot and fly a plane with regular controls and checks and supervision of your medical condition, then you can certainly sit down for a personal car driver or drive on a mobile. So these claims are certainly not true. It's the same with allergies. I also have diabetes and allergies, so by Friday's interpretations, I shouldn't walk on foot, let alone drive a car. So, if it happens that my doctor has changed my medical condition or changed my therapy until my condition has stopped to warn me and tells me not to drive for the next week or ten days, I certainly won't attack him for it, but I'll be grateful. I think we'll all agree that whoever for some reason is unable to drive a vehicle, so up to six months, that's that temporary incompetence, that shouldn't be done. And I don't know who would be in favor of letting whoever's incapacitated to drive it still have the hope that nothing will happen. What will we say when our hopes are betrayed? On the other hand, if we do not inform those who are supposed to control it, which we are going to quickly put on a pillar of shame in Croatia because they have not prevented such a situation Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114030	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one's a colleague of Dretar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114031	... It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder president: microphone please.]] Thank you. Article 238 of the esteemed representative of Kapulica is not true, or I would ask him exactly where he saw diabetes or allergy as a cause of inability to drive a personal motor vehicle, since the resolution ministry did not bring in at all a rule in which it was mentioned any other disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114032	Comrade Dretar, you are being warned because this is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114033	Article 238 of my colleague Capulica deceives the public. This law is already on its own in cohesion because it is already defined by Article. In 230 of this law, which should be decided by a branch of medicine, which is the medical work and this responsibility from the MUP is transferred to, to doctors of family medicine is discriminatory and will lead to huge problems in the system itself and we have offered a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114034	Comrade Troscott, also a reminder, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you made your point. Comrade Hood, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114035	Art. 238, of course, what I'm about to say isn't actually a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and where did I hear that? So a colleague in the debate during the first reading of a number of MPs sitting here, so I think what you're talking about, you want me to read a stenogram with, with a debate, maybe you should read it before you comment on the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114036	My fellow Hood, although you've been justified, you've been replicated, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114037	The 238th article, first and foremost colleagues of Troscott and many others. Today you are the midwives of Croatian doctors, and I will ask you what you would have done if it had happened to you as one Mr. Marian, let it remain Marianne, who was run over by the car from behind when the driver had an epilepsy attack that had not been reported to anyone, could be all the expensive shame, the man died today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114038	My colleague Zekanovic, and I have to give you a heads-up because you've replicated it, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't use any injuries to the Rules of Procedure because you have the ability to speak on behalf of the club and individually so please don't do that. Here's another attempt to hurt the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114039	Thank you very much. Art. 238, my colleague Zekanovic responds to your insult to all of us here, especially us who are doctors that can be ashamed of us, you may be ashamed because first you do not know what this law is about. One epilepsy and chronic condition are one temporary condition, and apparently neither are your other colleagues with whom you are obviously a little closer to socializing, you have no idea what 7 days, 10 days, or which means 2 or 10 or 15 years, you have no idea and you insult us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114040	Comrade Maric, you also get a warning, and you get a warning. We still have a new request for a break now, Comrade Badak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114041	Thank you very much, President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes in order to take another chance to refer to the applicant's request to consider whether you want to allow and implement one of these laws that has caused a great storm in both the public and among doctors because you directly put them in an unfavourable situation by imposing on them the obligation to report patients in breaching the patient's relationship, also imposing on them the obligation of breaking responsibility which is a major problem, which will lead to exclusively the insurance companies and insurance houses rubbing their hands. With a bill like this, we will further lead people to the fact that they will not be screened, they will not present their symptoms to the doctor knowing that they may be expected to be taken away from the driver's license, which, in time, will result in a greater number of untreated conditions and certain conditions, including chronic diseases, not to mention the issue of protection of personal data that has been violated, which we are constantly talking about, and parallelly doing otherwise. We're fighting for the protection of personal data, and then last week we're discussing an insight into citizens' bank accounts, today we're discussing the availability of information on health status at, at will. We believe that the law in this form is not good, and we ask the promoter to reconsider the position of a doctor and a large number of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114042	And this break has been approved, but we'll use the article. 293.b., so we're not going to take a break, but we're going to continue our work, and I call now on Secretary of State of Honor, Zarko Katic, to explain the final draft of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs, gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and allow me to lay down the basic objectives that the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is about. Every time we propose such a law or its amendments and supplement the basic goal is to reduce the number of traffic accidents and casualties in them. Traffic accidents are a major evil of the modern world, but it is difficult to avoid them completely, but we need to do everything to reduce them, to prevent activities and education, and only indirectly, by sanctioning those who do not comply with traffic rules to make as few people suffer in traffic accidents as possible. We wish to further influence these amendments on the awareness of traffic users that it is necessary to respect traffic regulations or to deter potential perpetrators from committing traffic offences and thus reduce accidents in traffic accidents. This policy is not only implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through this law and its amendments and additions, but also through the national programme or, in its sixth edition, called the National Plan, the National Plan on the Reduction of Road Safety on the Roads of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government adopted for the period from 2021 to 2030, as I said it was the sixth plan or road safety programme since 1994. and always its main intention was to reduce the number of victims and seriously injured and the total number of serious accidents. I'll remind you that despite our dissatisfaction with the number of victims in car accidents, the number of victims since 1990 has been significantly reduced to here, especially the fatalities. That year, we had 1360 victims, killed in car accidents, and last year we ended up at 293 years before that with 237 victims in car accidents. This plan through 190 activities, 71 measures and 13 areas of action is intended to make it closer to the desired number to at least halve the number of victims in traffic accidents during that period. These changes ahead of you are primarily due to technical and technological development, but also to the modernisation of the existing Road Traffic Safety Act, which clearly needs to be implemented every few years, and these are all governments and all the meetings of HS so far. As regards this concrete final draft of the law that is before you, the aim is to define new categories of vehicles, so certain means of transport that are defined by this law as auxiliary walking aids or personal means of transport have emerged. This includes electric romobile, electric monocycle Segway, etc. and the adoption of these provisions will allow for their participation in road transport, the right and the way to use surfaces that can be moved and conditions that must be met by those vehicles as well as their drivers when taking part in the traffic. The personal means of transport which is now and most mentioned in the context of these changes and additions will therefore include a vehicle which is not classified in any other category of vehicle, in accordance with specific regulations which do not have a seating position whose engine volume is not greater than 25 cm3 and whose permanent power of the electric motor is not more than 0,6 kW and which cannot develop a speed greater than 25 km/h on a flat road. Drivers of a personal means of transport shall be obliged to move on a cycling path or bike lane in the direction of movement, and in the case that a cycling path or lane does not exist, the mode shall be moved across areas intended for pedestrian movement and peaceful traffic zones provided that they take care of the safety of other road users. I would say a few more characteristics or rules that will apply to drivers, so above all, the age limit for the management of a personal means of transport is proposed to be 14 years, due night and day in the event of a loss of visibility are marked with a reflective vest or reflective clothing from first dusk to full dawn, so at night, and in the event of reduced visibility on the personal means of transport, one light of white paint on the front and one red light on the back shall be turned on. The driver of the personal means of transport on his head must wear a safety helmet while driving and only one person operating that vehicle may be transported on a personal means of transport, not operating the vehicle using headphones on both ears, etc., these are some basic indications of the use of a personal means of transport. The next change I would like to highlight is the introduced concept of zone and traffic in a protected culturally historical area and the contact zone. This has been introduced into the law on the proposal of the city of Dubrovnik because this entire cultural historical unit and culturally well is listed in the World Heritage List and in the list of endangered world heritage for which specific measures are being set to ensure and protect the value of this cultural goods and we believe it is good to prescribe entry into that area, the ways and conditions of entry, transport and exit of the vehicle from that zone. The law also finally introduces the possibility for doctors to issue a notice of temporary incompetence for driving management due to the temporary health condition of the driver. This, as I have now heard, has brought the most attention and interest to the public. I would say that the current provisions of the Road Safety Act stipulate that all doctors, that means not only doctors of family medicine but also specialists of private doctors, have an obligation to provide the MUP with information on a health change affecting the ability to drive safely. After receiving the notice, drivers shall refer to the performance of an extraordinary medical examination. This amendment has been proposed in order to avoid sending a driver to carry out an emergency health check due to temporary health conditions for a short period of up to six months. So, I stress that no new obligation has been made to doctors. In cases where the health condition of the driver is more severe or the driver has a certain degree of disability he will continue to be referred to performing an extraordinary supervisory health examination. I repeat also once again that it is not true that private doctors are not obliged to report temporary incompetence since the provision in the final proposal of the law applies to all doctors or to any doctor who has treated the patient who, of course, is also the driver. Those doctors who are in the CEZIH system, therefore this HZZO information system will deliver the notice by electronic means while the other doctors will deliver the information via the prescribed form. When we talk about the fact that, on the number of applications, the current applications for a permanent change in health status are after '19. When it grew significantly, in the '20s, in '21. and in the first 5 months of this year again significantly reduced, but not only are these cases of changes in the health condition when a person is going to, when the driver is going to take an extraordinary medical examination, it is also referred to by the driver who has identified the proportion of alcohol in the blood greater than 1.5 prominions, or if it has been established that he has managed the vehicle under the influence of drugs or medicines, as well as the driver who refused to undergo the study whether he has alcohol, drugs or drugs in the body, as well as all those who are at least 3 times legally punished for the management of the vehicle with an illicit amount of alcohol in the blood, so 0.5 permeates and more. Therefore, many of them have found a limited ability not to respond or incompetence, and some do not respond, do not respond to an extraordinary medical examination. And all of them are taken away from their driver's licenses. Therefore, if it has not passed it, if it has not, if it is deemed incompetent, if it is limited to the ability and if it has not accessed that review. Not to read your numbers, I've got data for the last five years and the first five months of this year, but a significant number is left without a driver's license. Furthermore, we also want to sanction unconscious drivers who park vehicles in the intended places that are intended only to charge electric vehicles. Many use one legal void and park there, then make it impossible for electric car drivers or hybrid drivers to fill their vehicles there and will now be sanctioned if they leave their vehicle there. Further registration plates with red and green numbers and letters are removed in order to prevent problems that arise from foreign bodies, so foreign traffic control bodies, whether it is police, customs, inspections of different countries which, in the control of vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia, which are marked with license plates with red numbers and letters, are considered illegal because they are therefore deviating from the majority of others they encounter and such vehicles are then subject to additional longer, and we mean unnecessary checks. And these are normally vehicles according to current regulations which, due to their dimensions, were either the length, width or height, or the maximum permissible mass which is larger than prescribed, are therefore marked by a special, special colour on their registration plates. Furthermore, we want to define these changes to the law and how the ambulance passes when an incident occurs. We have often been in the MUP, but the general public has also said that we should further educate drivers in the event of a certain need to pass the ambulance. This tape, which calls as a lifeline, is intended for priority vehicles anyway, and serves to pass an emergency service vehicle when an incident occurs in order to speed up the process of helping injured road users. Although Article 152(1) does not apply. The road safety law defines the way priority vehicles pass on two lanes currently do not have a provision in the law that defines the method of passage on multiple lanes and is then prescribed by these amendments. These provisions exist in many EU countries. In addition, the definition of a fully automated vehicle is introduced and sanctions are imposed on drivers who are improperly using vehicles with partially automated systems. It shall be possible for vehicles marked with portable plates to go to technical inspection and registration of the vehicle. Portable tiles shall be issued on behalf of the legal and natural persons of craftsmen involved in the production, upgrade, service, transport or sale of a small vehicle and shall be used for vehicles moving to the place of customs, type-approval, service, sales or exhibition place, place of testing, storage or storage or upgrade as well as for vehicles carrying out the test drive. We also enable drivers of category B motor vehicle management, excuse motor tricycles, but provided that for motor tricycles of more than 15 kilowatts you have category B licenses is at least 21 years old. And finally, unlike the previous changes and additions, when in a significant part there have been increased sanctions for certain and most often we also consider the most dangerous traffic offences on the roads this time we only have, we suggest only one increase in fines for the infringement of unadjusted speed from the current 500 to 1,000 kuna. Speed continued to be one of the most common causes of traffic accidents, and in the past and previous year, the highest number of people died because of a rate of more than 35 percent and 84 people in their 20 ’ s respectively. And in the end, I would like to make the difference between the final proposal and this law before you and the bill we discussed three months ago. Therefore, the change would be if the helmet had to be worn by all drivers during the journey, and in the bill the obligation was prescribed only for drivers under 16 years of age. So now it's worth it to all the drivers. Why? Because the personal means of transport are quite fast, unstable, there are small wheels that easily, therefore, do not absorb planes on the sidewalk, so it is very susceptible to changes in the direction of movement, and even to some difficult situations, so either the driver falls or attacks other road users. For this reason, we feel that it is necessary to introduce the obligation to wear a helmet. A fine has been proposed for wearing headphones on or in both ears, so one ear is allowed, but not on both, and this sanction is introduced for the first time. In the draft law, it was therefore proposed to amount to 1000 kuna but we believe that, in proportion to other sanctions, it would be necessary and reduced, therefore, in the final proposal, that sanction is provided for by 300 kuna if this regulation is violated. It is then proposed to extend the deadline for the Minister of Health to comply with the rules on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers with the provisions of this law to 12 months. In the bill of law, that deadline was six months. It is intended to give a longer time for quality preparation to be completed or a new rule on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers and to be very carefully, measured and quality introduced by these health conditions which will be the reason for temporary, which are temporary and for which time, drivers will not be allowed to drive. I repeat that the provisions of Article 37(3) and (4) of this Act will not enter into force at that time, but will enter into force only by adopting a Regulation on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers. The red cross intervention vehicles shall also be included in a group of vehicles with the right advantage as referred to in Article 151(1). The road safety law and ultimately introduces the obligation to own the first aid box when taking part in transport. It is prescribed by the Regulation on the technical conditions of the road transport vehicle, and for the infringement of its non-minority, a penalty shall be imposed for the infringement of 300 kuna. Here's how much I'd like for now on the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114044	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. We have an entire sequence, a long line of replicas. Let's start from the beginning. The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114045	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. This morning, we heard several amendments and additions to this bill in relation to the first reading, and I was particularly stuck with the ear of two amendments, which is exactly what you mentioned the introduction of a fine of 300 kuna for wearing headphones in traffic. I think it's very important, because we're witnessing that right now often people with these headphones can't concentrate on traffic. In the first proposal of the law, this height was fines of 1000 kuna and mandatory wearing helmets for all participants in the transport of two wheels on electric rhombuses, mopeds and the rest, not just those under 16 years old. I think we're all the same in that. I believe that traffic safety is never enough and do you think that black statistics will improve significantly by adopting this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114046	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114047	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I repeat once again that the goal of these changes is to try to reduce the number of victims in traffic and influence the driver's consciousness that with their behavior many can bend themselves and many in black. As much as the police keep detailed statistics on the various violations of the victims, etc. Today, for example, on the present day of 2022, a total of 16 less injured in traffic than it was on the same day last year when a hundred people died. So far, in these first five months and a week, 84 people have been killed to death, but it takes a lot more to reduce that number. And these sanctions that you mentioned, that is, these changes go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114048	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114049	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State I will not speak here about the nadal article 37, which actually takes away the freedoms of Croatian citizens and puts them into the hands of the Croatian police, or the government currently located where it is. My question is actually about the personal means of transport. In fact, in the first article, if I'm not mistaken, the 104th change from the counseling that was, it was 250, defined that the 250 watt electric motor, later that changed to 600. Today it's in the final law of 600. Why limit technical conditions, technology progresses every day, those 600 might be equivalent to 2 kilowatts tomorrow. That doesn't make any sense. No European country applies such practice. By which criteria you determined it would be 600, not 1 kilowatt or 2 or 3 kilowatts. Because this just doesn't make sense. If we're talking about traffic safety and accident reduction, it's been shown that romobiles have a far smaller [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114050	Dear Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114051	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I had briefly said something about personal means of transport, first of all, about electric romobiles. We respect the fact that they've appeared in traffic for the last few years and I'm trying to follow up with time and regulate this area. We believe we'll do it the best we can. We believe that romobiles, although attractive especially in this warmer part of the year, especially in larger cities where they are used, are still not so sure that they would not limit the speed of their movement and the strength they can, therefore, which is the greatest force they can develop. They're pretty low, so up to 15 centimetres tops, the driver's standing pretty well I'd say awkward for safe management and we think we have to do everything we can to keep others from getting hurt. The participants in the traffic from them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114052	Thank you very much, dear secretary. A colleague of Milanović litre, you have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114053	Article 238, public deception, colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114054	No, there's no public deception in that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114055	Please nice, please nice you have to let me finish...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114056	No, I don't have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114057	...exposure of why there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure so that we could take away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114058	...because that article doesn't say anything about deception to the public. Based on Article 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114059	I didn't even bring out what we're gonna hurt the Rules of Procedure, you're taking away my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114060	Because you haven't even called in adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114061	Well, on 238, I told you now that the public's deception has statistics that have been proven to be rhombus...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114062	Based on that, don't discuss it with me. On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114063	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so as we could see, these amendments to the law regardless of what they bring the most attention to both the media and the public and their colleagues have caused in this section regarding doctors and the reporting of patients who could endanger the safety of motor vehicle management. Of course, any doctor who is serious must warn his patient first that he should not drive if he has a condition or is taking medicines that threaten him. Of course, any responsible doctor would have to inform the MAP if such a person with his liability would accidentally cause some kind of traffic risk. And I think there's a lot of people here who aren't health care professionals right now who are commenting on this and what's most important is that the health profession will adopt a rule together with the Ministry of Health, right, and if the health profession agrees and says what diseases and conditions they are, I don't think there's a problem with having some kind of problem. What I'm having a problem with here is the punishments I wish there weren't for doctors if they didn't do this, they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114064	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114065	We certainly expect the health profession to be fully involved in the adoption of this rule. I just think it's completely logical and I don't know how it might happen if it doesn't take part. This deadline has been extended to 12 months to produce a better quality rule. As far as sanctions are concerned, they are not these changes and additions touched. So the sanctions that exist earlier are neither deleted nor reduced, nor increased. Once again, there is no new special obligation that would be burdened only by a family doctor, but by any doctor who has knowledge of a serious change in health conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114066	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114067	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am interested in whether the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health have conducted consultations with the professional health chambers and the Ministry of Health and whether they are in agreement with the proposed legal solution, given that health professionals are the most involved in the implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114068	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114069	Dear Mr. Representative, ever since it was brought in, when the last amendments were made in 2019, the minister appointed, the interior minister a working group to monitor the effects of the implementation of these amendments and additions and were also representatives of the doctor. Of course, there were more medical associations in these amendments and the additions were not directly involved in this draft bill, but were consulted, were representatives of the Ministry of Health of Health of course participated from the beginning in the consultation process and in the government procedure. Of course the Ministry of Health actively participated, so the doctors were familiar. No, we didn't fully agree with their arguments, and as a result, these changes and additions are ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114070	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114071	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State shows that my colleagues from the ruling option, but neither do you to the MUP who make decisions on behalf of the doctor know what this law will do in practice. Many of our citizens, or our patients, are taking a number of medicines with possible interactions. But here I'm going to give you the most banal example, so the monotherapy of taking one medicine, so I'm a diabetic doctor, so here's an example of a person with diabetes that we're introducing some kind of medicine, we don't know how long, maybe a couple of weeks, maybe a couple of months, it's been defined by law for up to six months. This medicine has little risk of hypoglycaemia, so we're assuming we don't have to report it. However, one day the patient did not eat enough, he was physically active, he was driving, he had hypoglycaemia and a car accident. The insurance company does not want to pay compensation because there is a small risk of hypoglycaemia and who will be guilty, family doctor, diabetic? Are you aware of what this law will bring into practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114072	Thank you, thank you. Before answering, it seems to me that the respected representative Zekanovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114073	Dear President, Article 238, here's a colleague who's been in the assembly too long, so she forgot a little medicine. And temporarily incapacitated is incapacitated and permanently incapacitated. And temporarily incapacitated can take a person's life, as well as permanently incapacitated, because of his health. And I read the law, and you didn't read it, and the medicine obviously evaporated from your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114074	You get, you get a warning, I, first, it was a replica, and this wasn't even correct, was it? Uh, come on, let's not go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, I've made a note to my colleagues, therefore, don't you agree? You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The job of the police is difficult enough and responsible enough to really not want to get involved in the work of a doctor who is also responsible and very difficult and complex. Therefore, I say once again, the driver’s health check rule will determine what conditions can affect the driver’s temporary inability. We believe that those diseases, those medicines, those situations that last, as the law says, will be prescribed for a shorter period of time, or a maximum of 6 months, and where they will, as much as possible, include medicines that cannot, or whose consumption would affect the inability to drive. The police can't determine what drugs they are, it'll be determined by doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114076	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114077	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, there's a lot, there's a lot of discussion, there's a lot of sightings of this bill, which is normal. Like any proposal, we can find him a lot of virtues, a lot of faults, but here, today we mention the most common rule about health checks that, as you said yourself, but here, as we hear through the debate, should also regulate all health conditions, diagnosis possible and doses of certain medicines, and thus make it easier for all doctors, all of us who work and in the health system. Of course, through that part of the story and to soften this attitude about the possible sanctions of the doctor as it will make it easier to function through the correct definition. I will also take the opportunity to praise the story that was created at the time of Covid, which is the integration of the MUP into CESIH just for Covid's confirmation, and it will now facilitate the functioning of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114078	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114079	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, everything you've stated stands. It will be necessary when the regulation is passed, or earlier, to avoid wasting time, to enable all segments of the Ministry of the Interior, in particular, traffic police with CESIH, are currently linked to these administrative affairs. When a doctor sends either through the system or on a form of notification that someone is incapacitated to manage the vehicle temporarily, or more permanently because of a severe health disorder, the notification shall then be delivered through that system and then the police shall send that person to an extraordinary supervisory examination, which shall then determine the final jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114080	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114081	Thank you very much, Mr. Katic. Tell me, it seems to me that the medical lobby is weaker than the insurance lobby that pushes this law and probably because they have more money. Since there is no president of HVIDRA here to say what I'm about to say, and there is no colleague of Deura, tell me, are you aware that with this law are the most endangered people, defenders who suffer from PTSD? Do they need it after all, after the war, after the disease, do they need a driver's license? I don't think so, and I didn't see that neither did the Ministry of Defense nor HVIDRA nor the other defense organizations. Here, that's why I'm asking you right now, you are aware that with this law you will lead to an increase in the suicide of Croatian defenders if you start taking away their licenses, and you will take away them because people are taking medicines because they suffer from PTSD, not because it was their whim, but because they went to defend this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114082	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114083	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I believe that this law will not reflect so negatively on Croatian defenders, as you say. The law passed the harmonisation and opinion and the Croatian Defence Ministry and I believe their opinion reflects the real and real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114084	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114085	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear to me that some are fighting for freedom, so even at one point under the alleged struggle for freedom will deny that someone is incapable of driving a motor vehicle and that is one terrible knowledge. So this isn't about taking any freedom, it's about saving people's lives. You too know the case when a young man was killed because someone didn't declare the driver incompetent. I don't care if it's temporary or permanent. The man died because someone had an epileptic seizure that wasn't reported, and that's all that matters. However, specifically related to this Law, if this will be an increase in the work for doctors, you must staff them. Either increase the headgear or reduce the number of charts or transfer from complete to work medicine. That's what could be done, but denying health facts and common sense, that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114086	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114087	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I think freedom is always worth fighting for, but, of course, the rights of others should be respected if someone's boundaries of their freedom were to be interpreted so widely. I assume that these changes will not increase the work of the doctor more significantly, so there is an information system, most doctors are connected to the information system, so the health ministry, or HZZO, will only need to enter the code of a particular disease into that system so that it is visible and if that code matches what will be stated in the rulebook, then such a person will be able to manage the vehicle, either temporarily, and if he wants the final word, he will go to this extraordinary health check after which there is still the possibility of a second-degree commission, so I believe that every citizen will come to a fair and a fair relationship to the state and to... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114088	Thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114089	Thank you. HDZ colleagues keep mentioning the profession. The profession should be heard, and this bill systematically ignores the profession. Some politicians who swear to speak from the position of the profession, and it is quite clear that they speak from the position of personal and party interest and that they have not worked in the profession for decades do not consider the voice of medicine. It is the last time that we all respond to this discrimination and the introduction of police practice in medicine and in medical care, so once again I call on you to support family medicine doctors in fighting for your rights and for the rights of your patients. Change this cadada law. And I wonder if reason will prevail on Friday when this proposal will be voted on, the final draft of the law, or we will see again how the party voting machine works in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114090	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114091	I'll just say it once again that it's not just family medicine doctors, so this is the obligation of every doctor who's treated a patient or has knowledge of his medical condition, that is, temporary or permanent inability to drive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114092	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114093	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I would refer to the proposed introduction of a fine of 300 kuna on the use of headphones when operating a bicycle, and this applies to other drivers of personal means of transport such as electric romobiles and the like. You yourself said in the first draft of the law she was 1,000 kuna. I welcome this reduction of the fine to 300 kuna, especially as it applies to young people, because they use the most of these means and headphones, and we know that using headphones, we also drastically reduce the ability to react and manage the vehicle, but also I don't think that it's the only goal of punishing these people's personal responsibilities and education, so my question is whether there are any statistics or assessments of the connection of traffic accidents. and the use of headphones in traffic. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114094	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114095	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, although the amount of sanctions for committing this offence is thus reduced, he is not innocent at all. And I call on all citizens who drive or participate in traffic, not to have headphones in both ears because surely, apart from sight and hearing is a very important road safety factor. Thus, headphones are often driven by cyclists, carried by cyclists, carried by users of these personal means of transport. I would just mention, I think that we can be proud of the action among young people, among students where students have the first chance to pass a cycle management exam that is conducted in cooperation with the MUP with HAK and schools, where every year several thousand of the youngest are educated and get their first permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114096	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114097	My dear secretary, Mr. Katic, the fact that only you are sitting here today in the Parliament of the Resolute Ministry of the Interior means that it is only the presentation of your respective ministry and that the Ministry of Health here is not a shameful fact. So, the very fact that you've come to represent the law, and the rule of diagnosis and medication is not yet finished and that you doctors of family medicine are mostly left behind, so on a subjective level, they're also assessing that the smallest detail that they have to report to the police has no other conclusion but that you're creating one spy network. There is no other excuse than that you absolutely did nothing, but to build additional and burden the system. 30% of the drivers will be killed right away on Monday, so they're already people from all the associations of health care that you haven't contacted because they're preparing you a constitutional suit, all of which means a health association is preparing you a constitutional suit, which means the law is sloppyly prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114098	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114099	Dear Mr. Troscott, let's not be obsessed with spies. The rule couldn't be passed before the law. The law is the basis, he prescribes that a certain rule will be adopted, who will bring it, and within what time it will be brought. I believe that we will, we will do everything possible to have competent and relevant people involved in it who will put out the best rulebook possible. That would, however, be necessary in all other sublegal acts based on any other law. As for the constitutional lawsuit, then one, it is made possible for all citizens of this country. They are allowed individuals, natural persons, legal persons to review the acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, the Government, their compliance with other laws and with the Constitution as a roof document, so, if necessary, we will give the necessary indication to the Constitutional Court why we think this law is and constitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114100	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114101	Thank you very much. In Article 13, you say that Article 112 is amended and that a fine of 500 kuna will be fined for a misdemeanor of a cyclist who does not move on the right if there is no intended course. Also, he'll be punished with 500 kunas if he's more cyclists, so if they don't move behind each other. In Article 16, you say that Article 120 also changes and you say that a rider will be punished by 300 kuna if he does not move on the right side of the road and if there are more, if they do not move behind each other. If you think horses are less dangerous than bicycles, it's one thing and the other if you think the property situation of cyclists is better than the property condition of riders since they have to pay 500 kuna for the same offense, and these are only 300. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114102	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114103	Dear Mr. Representative, I think both bicycles and horses are as dangerous as their driver, or rider, are dangerous. Unlike the bikes in our country, perhaps less than in some other countries, but the trend has increased the number of bicycles on our roads especially in cities. Unlike them, riders are very few, but it was one legal gap that should also be regulated because there are, can be them especially in some actions, some markings, celebrations, etc. So that question was to be solved, but the most important thing is the rider or driver.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114104	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114105	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. In view of the number of accidents and accidents, measures should surely be taken. There are diseases and medicines that are not available today... with the management of motor vehicles, of course due to the consequences that they occur. But what you think of the development of modern technologies is that this law will also loosen up a little bit, like autopilots where technology will run the car and someone who either reacts less or something will be able to drive the car around me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114106	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114107	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Ha am not an expert, I believe that medicines will develop in this direction as smart medicines say they will target only diseases and cause diseases, and they will not lead a person into some state of intoxication, drowsiness or inability not only to drive a vehicle which is very important but to generally participate in everyday life and work. And the development of new vehicles and we've also perceived it here going its course, but I'm maybe a little conservative so I think it's still important and the driver or most important at this point, and maybe there'll be a time when the driver won't be the verdict. While it is still important to regulate quality everything about drivers because they are the most common and the biggest causes of traffic accidents, and of course we take care of our vehicles and the roads that we traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114108	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114109	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a law that has caused a number of controversy both in first reading and in second reading, especially medical professions, even to the extent that doctors claim that he is in collegiate with the Health Protection Act. You said at one point today that you met doctors, and you didn't include them in the making of laws. So I'm curious about what kind of professional foothold would be to pass a law like this with a series of controversy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114110	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114111	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Representative. I don't think there's really any reason to use the term that this is a controversial bill. With a certain number of legal provisions, it is difficult to achieve that everyone always agrees. I repeat, maybe I'm boring and like a parrot, the rule will be able to answer all these possible issues. The law will not apply until the regulation has been passed. I ask all doctors, all those who can say something here useful to get involved and to bring in a rule that will have either 3 or 33 or 333 articles as long as it takes, but that fits the spirit of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114112	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. When we go to the emergency room together, let's say the firemen and the HGSS are worth different rules to us, and we go after the same man. It's about 200 times a year, and life depends on seconds, they have other rules, which means they can't get in the way, they can't use the phone, they can't use a bunch of other things, and then they do it and they get fines for it. That's not right. Art. 151. defines mountain service, and art. 149. Emergency services in these cases I think you should make an exception so either not punish those people or do anything to transfer the mountain service to art. 149, if that's impossible now, then at least with the next changes, that's what you're really worried about. This way we're late for an intervention, or they're late for intervention, or they're breaking the rules, and I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114114	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114115	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Representative. The role of mountain service in today's Croatia is certainly very important and it is a very useful service that we follow every day practically saves someone from unacceptable areas that cannot be accessed by roads. They are, as you said now, their rights let's say so and obligations are regulated. 151. which provides a particular fund of opportunities such as the possibility of parking and stop-overs, or may drive more than the limits set, but do not have any rights regulated for other services and that is regulated by Article 151. 149th Law. For business reasons, it was not possible to transfer the HGSS from Art. Article 151 149, but it'll be done first chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114116	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have a long-standing institutional memory in the public administration, so you must remember that former Minister Pancic sought proof of driving licenses when revising HRVI status. Of course, it was raised by the entire defense public and that he was traumatizing them and of course he gave up on it. Now that the Ministry of Defence has left the deadline for recognising HRVI's disease-based status and with the basis of the PTSD, it is likely that many Croatian defenders will realise the status of the chronicated PTSD. Is there any possibility that such Croatian defenders may be deprived of their driver's license since this government is taking a bus to the chest and considers it necessary to protect Croatian defenders, additionally from untraumaticising and protecting their rights achieved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114118	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114119	Thank you. Your Honor. MPs, since you mentioned yourself, I don't have a sense of such a long institutional memory, it seems to me like I've been since yesterday, but this, this is a matter of personal feeling. Croatian defenders are certainly the group of people in this country to whom we should pay due attention and respect their real needs. Anyone who manages a vehicle must comply with the regulations. The thing is, and again, I'm referring to the rulebook, the thing is whether a person is going to take certain medicines that are incompatible with safe driving. I don't think that Croatian defenders will particularly stand out from other citizens of this country when it comes to road safety and driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114120	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In order for this bill to get a majority in HS on Friday, it seems to me that one change is needed, one amendment, and I think that this key amendment is just an amendment that represents the Committee on Law and that says all these obligations for family medicine doctors will not apply until the rules are adopted. It will not apply until the rules are adopted and, of course, the rules must comply with European standards on the rights of the patient, on the rights of the doctor. I think it's a key one amendment that I hope will be accepted and then, of course, the law gets HS support on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114122	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114123	Your Honor, thank you very much, Your Honor. It was precisely because of certain fears brought forward recently, which in public, which at meetings, we wanted to remove it and say that clearly say, regulation by law, that these provisions of the law from Article. 37 will not come into force until the rules are passed. The government could, of course, react to some of its amendments later, or react after sending the law to HS, but this seemed to be the simplest solution since the Legislative Committee said it would submit such an amendment and we would accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114124	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, solutions should be such that they encourage people who have a problem with alcohol consumption or drugs to go into the treatment system, and they do not give up different treatments because of certain legal regulations. When we talk about the health care area, I think it should be a dominant personal responsibility, and no medical responsibility should be eliminated. What I am interested in, therefore, is in line with the new guidelines, and will soon be in force and the EU's regulation on blockade devices in people with alcohol problems, whether the Ministry is considering some perspective regarding the installation of these devices, especially those offenders and repeaters, regarding alcohol consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114126	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114127	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I agree with you and the basic intent and this Law and practice is that the driver himself is responsible for his spells and that he reports when he is not his own, therefore his worsening medical condition that affects the ability to drive. In some EU countries, therefore, drivers are obliged to report such a situation, such as Cyprus, Greece, Spain, France, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Norway and the UK, but there are also countries that impose the obligation on both the driver and the doctor or only the doctor. So there are 11 countries where the doctor is obliged to report this condition. As far as this issue is concerned about the installation of the device, I wouldn't know exactly how to answer you right now, but the question is both technological and... development, it would certainly be very useful to install [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and make it a commitment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114128	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114129	Thank you, Secretary of State. Just what I saw as a problem, were absorbed by few colleagues Mlinarić and Nađ, so given the history of our country's creation, Croatia has significantly more patients with post-traumatic stress disorder, so-called. PTSD rather than other countries and such conditions, other than antidepressants, are also treated with antipsychotics and antipsychotics whose use is caused by side effects, including lack of energy and sleepiness. I ask you, will patients with this diagnosis be covered under this bill, so will they succumb to the withdrawal of driver's licenses? Please answer what will happen to people with PTSD diagnosis who, in order to function, have to take stronger medicines like this, will we especially know that our defenders who, when needed, are willing to give their lives will be taken away from them by means of a single click of the mouse? We know that we still don't have a disease list rule, but I believe there's some framework information about the conditions we're talking about. You probably already have some. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114130	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114131	Appreciated, ma'am. Counselor, I really don't have any additional knowledge. I said clearly that the Ministry of Internal Affairs cannot deal with the regulation of these conditions is therefore also an obligation to adopt this Regulation, not with these amendments and additions, but practically from the creation of the Road Safety Act, since much earlier is the day of the Minister of Health Affairs. He will, I suppose, appoint with a task force a task force that will then prescribe what are the conditions affecting the safe management of the vehicle. What you mentioned, I really have no knowledge, I don't know, I don't use these drugs and I don't know how it affects the safety of driving.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114132	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. This replica of mine certainly won't end up in the central journal, but here I see a lot of horsemen of the apocalypse and the challenge of the day of judgment, so my replica to you will be for those real riders. Art. 2. It gives units of local and regional self-government a little more power when it comes to tradition and culture, in particular to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, we know that we have a lot of these fine riding, that we have a lot of cultural events, and horses are one of the features and associations of Slavonia. Also in Art. The 16th subparagraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 are changed, so here may be a little bit of an explanation of what is happening and how much this whole process simplifies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114134	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114135	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, so in art. 2. which regulates therefore this is the definition of certain concepts used in this law defines what a rider is, although it seems to all of us that, that it is easy to say what a rider is, but here is a rider who participates in traffic, so he is not a rider on an iceberg or a embankment, so then in art. 16. It is described more closely who can ride, so it can be a person who has 16 years of age, that he must move as close as possible to the right edge of the road and if he rides them more, and it is generally in these situations that, then, that they are obliged to move behind each other and not side by side, so as to take away space for other traffic participants and it is prescribed at the end of this 300 kuna sanction for non-compliance with these rules, which was troubled by MP Škoro just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114136	Honorable representative and vice president of the Vosovac Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114137	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, when a drunkised person manages a vehicle, the driver or driver who is in such a condition is responsible, however, when a person with a medical condition manages a vehicle, he is not responsible but is borne by a doctor and he has very clearly shown the case from 2019. When a drug addict was treated under the influence of opiates and the drugs crashed into the billing house and thereby damaged or killed three people, the doctor replied to his condition. After that, the number of doctor reports for medical examinations for both easier and difficult health problems is until the end of 2019. You've grown to 8 grand, out of these 8 grand, only 2,000 have proved to be justified and the rest has paid for the MUP, and now you're changing this bill, do you think this is the right way to punish doctors, not solve key problems, but transfer responsibility to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114138	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114139	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, for the use of alcohol, as well as medicines that can be stunning or harmful for or contraindications for driving is the responsible driver who manages this vehicle, is not a responsible doctor, the doctor will instruct him, and we want to clarify this and make more detailed provision, he will tell him when he can't, when he uses a medicine that he uses that he can't drive with, and these changes are only mentioned temporary conditions, and those permanent conditions are already regulated and we don't think there are any major problems. As I was saying at the outset, other than those referred to by doctors to an extraordinary medical examination, there are a number of people who, due to violations of the rules of multiple alcoholisation or rejection, submit to the proposal the same thing go to these examinations, extraordinary medical examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114140	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114141	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, unfortunately we have insufficient parking spaces reserved for the transport of disabled persons in view of the real needs. We have to keep the public informed that a place marked for parking of disabled people is not a privilege of free parking when you may be thinking of it at times rather than helping people who have difficulty moving, who are providing mobility, day-to-day functioning and integration in society. In your opinion, is the fine of 700 kuna for improper parking in a place which means reserved for disabled persons a reasonable punishment since the Ombudsman prescribes or asks for the punishment to be increased, for example in Slovenia is that fine up to 200 euros? The second question concerns police officers and registration quotas at police academy, should they be increased in view of the increased number of needs for police officers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114142	Thank you, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114143	Appreciated, ma'am. MPs parking in a place that is intended only for disabled persons is indeed I would say a more ugly act and an act which is not worthy of a healthy person who can park his car anywhere else or go and do a round and look for a parking space if it was in that parking lot, everything was filled. I think the number of parking spaces corresponds to about the needs, but it's still happening that someone even in addition to the empty spaces that can park in that place that shows the extreme haughtiness of such people. For such people, then no sanctions would be too great, so they agree that it could be increased, but we think that under the balance of all penalties it's hard to jump off with something, but maybe another time we'll increase that sentence. As for the enrolment, he'll be about at the level of the last few years, but he tends towards the bigger one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114144	Thank you. Dear Representative Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114145	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, although today's debate can be seen to be the most important part of the doctor's responsibility for driving or not managing motor vehicles, I would like to look back on something else. I would like to thank you on behalf of the city of Dubrovnik for accepting amendments to the Road Safety Act, Art. 2., the introduction of the 106th zone of transport in a protected cultural historical unit. This is the first time we have introduced such a term that will actually enable the city of Dubrovnik, but not only the city of Dubrovnik, but also other cities that are under UNESCO protection from the introduction of traffic control with the main focus on citizens who and such places must be available, and all other economic operators at their disposal. And indeed thank you very much on behalf of me personally as mayor of the city of Dubrovnik, but certainly on behalf of all citizens of the city of Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114146	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114147	Dear Mr. Representative, although this is the case, by including the number of these points that they give, which describe the concepts used in the law have grown to over 100, but we believe that this was a valid reason for them to both fit and traffic zones into a protected cultural historical unit. These areas in our cities have been given thanks to many generations of ancestors who have been doing so as much more important, so they have not destroyed it or even after the heavy sufferings as they were in Dubrovnik in the 17th century and it would be completely irresponsible to destroy it very quickly because of what the hands of dollars are saying. So I think it has its own justification, and that's why your proposal was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114148	Your Honor, Agent Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114149	The Honored Chairman, the Honored Secretary of State, by such a bill, the ministry, the government, eventually and this assembly is sticking to something that shouldn't. And that's a matter of course of confidentiality. The confidentiality between a family doctor and his patient. It's something you don't need to take lightly. On the other hand, such a solution where the name and last name is determined which doctor is responsible for not reporting not only will we have a criminal liability of the doctor’s course of punishment but it is possible of course and the damages of the insurance houses to that particular doctor and therefore in criminal situations and criminal liability. So this kind of law opens a Pandora's box that will put family doctors in an extremely difficult situation in the future when that year goes by. And finally one question, how many people are since the law is already in force in '21? Their driver's license was taken from them by the law here? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114150	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114151	I agree with you, Your Honor, that, of course, the doctor and patient's relationship is confidential, special, and that's the way it has to be. However, who will tell you about the condition of a patient who is also a driver who will immediately after examination or the next day sit in his vehicle that he is not able to drive or temporarily be able to drive but rather a doctor. It's really someone else, some other profession that's hard to say. As far as the doctor is concerned, let's say, '19. He was the highest number of doctor's notices even 9.967 he was, he was in '20. Dropped to 3.818, '21. at 2,803, and in the first 5 months 934. It's last year, but we don't run by that criterion, but for all cases, there have been limited powers. estimated 903, incompetent 568 and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114152	We've got to stick to the weather. Your Honor, Agent Daus. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the proposed amendments to the law do not cover at all the area of determining the health capabilities of older drivers and periodic checks of the same. And the area in question in our country is inadequately regulated and is contrary to existing practice in the EU and to the proposed changes in existing legislation by the European Commission and the European Road Safety Agency. So I wonder why? And this is what I really respect older people, which is ultimately what we all do at home, but we all know that biology is inexorable and that with age and psychophysical, motor skills and other abilities are diminishing and that we have had a very unfortunately opportunity to see the situation in the wrong direction on the highway, etc., etc. So my question is why and why shouldn't it be introduced as was once a periodic examination of such people in years, especially of those who move away? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114154	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114155	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that's exactly the solution and that institute in law was. It was abolished in 2013, we know who it was in 2013, who could have proposed and abolished it. There were all kinds of conversations about it. It was considered not necessary to introduce. On the other hand, we often object that young people who are certainly healthier in general, but that they commit more violations, and then, in another period, it shifts to other categories. We don't have reliable, reliable data that some category of citizens, given their age or other characteristics, is just as much a criminal offender, I apologize to the offense mostly whether or not something and criminal acts, rather than some other group. That is why we have now stayed on this solution that we propose in the existing law and its changes and additions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114156	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114157	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, there was a lot of replicas, a question of whether or not I would say something new, but in any case, I would like to remind us all of that first sentence of yours when you started to explain this law, which is that the purpose of this passing of this law is to reduce accidents and suffering. So he also has a preventive character, and clearly there are penalties. By listening to the discussions, listening to these replicas, it seems to me that we have lost focus, from the focus of our citizens and their safety, which is why the law is passed that we are more thinking and discussing penalties, is mentioned here and some lobbyes, and of course the debate has gone to that extent that here and the representatives are wondering why the representatives of the Ministry of Health are not sitting here, this is not the law on the protection of this health care. I just want to say who's going to warn to change your health if you do not doctors Intruder Reiner: Thank you./... so it is trust [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In the profession. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114158	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114159	...counsel, I agree with you a lot, I apologize for saying it safely, but I had to, because the questions went on about the same subject a lot, and then I was forced to repeat myself. That's what I said in answer to a question just now, who's gonna be besides a doctor, and then someone else might be relevant then. Now this whole law has gone into question the responsibility of a doctor, and this question one or two out of 50 and some articles I think we've provided for this law and some other important questions, regulate, resolve, improve, but the question of this law that regulates one so important is difficult for me to tell the activity, but the area of our daily life is always going to have other opinions and we'll never end the story unfortunately, but we're working on this law being The better and the less people get hurt. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114160	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114161	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Katic. Introductoryly, you said that the aim of this law is to reduce traffic accidents and, above all, to achieve education and prevention, and only after that with legislation, I am glad that you cited a reduction in the number of people killed on Croatian roads compared to the 1990s, when it was around 1400, according to the present situation when it was 300 deaths and these data certainly speak of safety on Croatian roads. What I want to especially praise is the fact that this law specifically regulates what has not been regulated so far, which is the rhombus and other similar traffic, so I'm curious whether the regulation will be more orderly first of all. In big cities? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114162	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114163	Your Honor, Madam Representative. It's both the goal and these changes and the additions we've done primarily by managing that these new vehicles that have come up that we can't ignore, we can't close our eyes, we can't ban them, it wouldn't make sense, of course, because we think they still have their place, but it's necessary to figure out where to place those drivers of personal means, is that the road, is that a sidewalk. They always bother someone, so on the sidewalk by pedestrians, on the street, on the road drivers of personal and freight cars. I believe that we have found a good solution, we have managed the experiences of other countries, a number of countries have regulated it, and in some countries it is also ongoing and I think we have found ourselves somewhere in such thinking. The number of victims I repeat is shrinking again, the last three years are below 300, we've been getting close to that goal in the national programme, we haven't achieved it, we're almost hoping that we will achieve it by 2030. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114164	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'll open the debate even though it looks like after more than 30 replicas we've been through everything. All clubs have applied and a very large number of you although you are not in the hall much, but many of you have applied for individual debates. We are going to be as effective as possible and we are starting with the first club of representatives, which is Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114165	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. This is really how you have scored the Honorable President-in-Office Reiner in these few hours we have said almost everything crucially all of us who are harshly protesting and strongly disagreed with the proposed text of this law, as well as colleagues and colleagues from the ruling, especially the HDZ majority who are truly hearty defending it as if it were the most sacred thing we are offered right now. We Croatian sovereigns believe that this proposal is not well done, yet it has a terrible nomotechnical flaw because the key restriction of human rights and freedom, the key derrogation of delontological rules of the medical profession, the key question of the protection of personal data, the trust between the patient and the doctor in the proposal for this law is conditioned by the list and medicines and diseases. And this list, imagine now that respected colleagues and colleagues, determines who? The Minister with his rulebook, and we don't have that rulebook on the table right now, we don't actually have a catalog of those drugs or a list. According to this, if we blow our hand for it, who guarantees that I, as a sugar patient, or as it is already called, will not be a mess but a taxi or a neighbor or a pedestrian or a bicycle to come to work. It would be a great loss indeed. But we do not believe that we can go so indefinitely into changing the legislation to restrict human rights and freedoms, and without any concrete legal tangible and catalogically marked reason and conditions. My colleague Habib knows very well what I'm talking about, and he will surely agree with me on that. So what can we say? We can say that this law should also be amended nomotechnically and only then will it be ready for, as Col. Troscott says, a versatile and co-worker debate professionally on what conditions we can suspend, derrogate a medical secret in order to achieve a greater goal of protecting the lives and health of people, property in transport. Only then in exceptional situations and timing to define both content and clear how. Because now, it is open with this text that in a mass of 505,000 Croatian defenders, of those who unfortunately have certain solutions and treatable problems, for example, PTSD or some other disease, which use certain medicines, medications or treatments can not function in their.../incomprehensible/... those in their lives, family, social, some and work, but because of certain consumptions of certain medicines, regardless of what they say is not true, but Claritine when you drink against allergies, there clearly stands not to run a tractor, a manager, a saying stands a bagger, I don't know why, a working machine and a personal car, I don't know, if you feel something wrong, is it? Therefore, the fact that the threshold for repression and prevention of the movement of the population of the Republic of Croatia is so low, means in this case cars, motor vehicles are actually disturbing, should not and should not be so broadly placed. So I'm asking you to do it and I'm asking you to do it, and you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ because you can also be referred to on the first occasion, and when the law is passed, here, your colleague Kapulica will certainly be first on the list because he's a diabetes patient, and I don't know what he is, he said publicly, did he? So we won't accept it on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we send you a clear message, and I see colleagues and colleagues from all over the left and ultra left spectrum, and so do we, our associates from Most, IDS, colleagues and I've seen and they won't. Therefore, we only need to appeal from HSLS somewhere, possibly your coalition partner Pupovac, he certainly won't because he's scolding you in Belgrade and we've reached 75 hands maximum, I don't think anyone will find a new one and come up to raise a hand for it and it's optimism. So, Your Honor, Secretary of State, you're working on all other aspects. We have statistics that say that the big speed is a problem, wrong vehicles, cell phones, there is a need, cyclists in Zagreb, you are all here to come and use the apartment, is you right or wrong, that is another question, but the cyclist surely in Zagreb has a great chance, can reach you once every 7 days on foot. This should be discussed, seen, with these cycling associations to be more careful, to somehow adapt to it because it is now a monster in Zagreb. All the rest of you, everything else, we support your efforts to reduce the number of these and the criminal acts and the incessant and unfortunately we have all kinds of fools, drugged, alcoholized, who, hanged, are certainly there to be as hot as possible, as possible, and here carefully, walk like eggs here. Well, you can't have a general practice doctor at your service, hello, what about Sacic, there's a problem, right? You can't do that. We're here in a state of caution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114166	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114167	Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleagues, all of you who follow us. This law is very important and before I go, I would like to commend in general the intention of ruling and legislators here now that they are with this proposal where they would regulate things like bicycles in traffic, driving with headphones, therefore additional service, type of alcoholic state, drugs, etc., it makes absolutely sense. On the other hand, it is inadmissible to degrade, or degrade, the doctors of family medicine. I listened carefully to the arguments given by the ruling party, so no one said here that permission should not be given to doctors. That's not what anyone said. We even invited each other to an art class. 230, which is very, very clear, which says that before the start of training, candidates are required to undergo a medical examination, 2 medical examinations are carried out by healthcare institutions and companies that perform the medical work activities and specialists of medicine in private practice for certain categories can also be performed by family medicine doctors. What has happened now is that the MUP is literally, so Pontius Pillatovski has now transferred the entire responsibility to family medicine doctors at this moment for reasons that, above all, there is no rule that would define what these are diagnosiss, which are medicines that will require family medicine to issue a ban on participation in traffic. Not only that, but without consent and without permission, the data on the health of a particular person will have to be forwarded to the police department or to the police. There was even a proposal for certain associations to keep this information, for example within the relationship between the doctor and the patient, until today the MUP and Mr Katić and everyone else have not stated whether this is possible and why it would not be possible and why such information should be given at all, should be given by law, unless, for example, if the MUP did not require it for certain situations. This is how doctors are going to have to share that information. Mr. Katic did not give a basic answer, which is who will protect the doctors of family medicine when they will have to deal with patients and make them aware that they will no longer be able to drive a car and participate in traffic. He wants Mr. Katic to come there to health homes and protect our doctors with patients who are already frustrated with the many things that the sea has to do through life, and these doctors of family medicine will have to take them out of traffic on the basis of a rule that does not exist, based on a diagnosis that does not exist, based on medicines that do not exist. So all of this now comes down to the subjective experience of family medicine doctors who should make that decision independently. So no protection do these people have. And yet, and they're still thrown out by insurance houses waiting for them as hyenas because if they don't express themselves, and now, for any single thing, they're going to issue a solution that a person can't participate in traffic because people are simply going to have to protect themselves. So in 2019 Mr Katić was not killed, of course he is now a personification of the MUP but a doctor of family medicine. She was killed. So it's not just like that. They have not calculated the effects this law or proposal will have on society. Where the drivers are urgent, where the drivers of police vehicles, where the drivers of the city's, intercity transport, are 30% of the drivers will be left without permission. No one counted on it. Furthermore, in addition to being defined by the law, it should be the medical work that determines it, so this law as such is discriminatory because it is not prescribed what is with private clinics or private doctors of family medicine. So someone who's a richer citizen will be able to leave and buy their driver's license, and someone who doesn't have the fear of going to a health home will do that examination for reasons that there's a high probability of losing the driver's license and the fear of our doctors who have to give out an opinion or get them out of traffic for anything. So, on the one hand, patients are invited to review, on the other hand, the basic relationship between the patient and the family medicine doctor is violated because doctors at the end of the day with the Hippocratic oath are not obliged to become spies on this construction of the police state. They don't have to do that. They have sworn to treat us and that in this most intimate relationship that exists on the patient-doctor's route, they will build trust that has been built for years. The Doctor of Family Medicine has been in the relationship for 30 years, and now this relationship will become a mess just because Mr. Katic said if this goes now to the doctor of family medicine, you are now convulsing with people, you solve this problem. You're saying you called for the practice of European countries, you didn't, you didn't call for the practice of European countries because you didn't look at the Finnish model and you didn't look at the British model. .../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... in Britain, it is crucial to issue a license for participation in transport, which is an interdisciplinary agency where both the medical work and the police and the insurance houses are involved, all together, independently of being able to participate in traffic. So what you've done first of all is you've created chaos in the system because you don't know the effects that's going to happen with everything that you've done. You've broken your relationship because trust will be no more. The whole guilt and responsibility of the strata were transferred to doctors of family medicine who had no protection from either the repressive apparatus, and the insurance houses were waiting for them to make the slightest mistake. And they should solve that whole problem. So this is what people call, solve, Facebook, this, Whatsapp, through the platform, corresponds to all of us patients and needs to be additionally burdened, and Article 230 clearly defines medical work should be done, but not just medical work. So what do we do now? How are you going to get your doctors out of Monday, so she's going to have to protect herself? Here, Mr. Katic, how do we protect them? There will be a lot of frustrated people, I already see these conversations in these clinics as they talk to our family medicine doctors while you'll be protected there at the MUP, you may have an escort, no one will protect our doctors, but there will be a first chance to end up in the headlines then we'll skin them well and still pay the fine, end up in jail, and the system will further punish them and prosecute them. Here, this is, this is what we're looking at through this law today. This is the consequence of today when we declare it to me or everyone who will raise your hand on Friday, so you are, you are voting for media repressive and any persecution of family medicine doctor. Why do you find 2,500 people in Croatia so wrong? What did they do to put more pressure on them with these things? Everything has already been defined by my people, everything has already been defined. Why is this one change? Just to remove responsibility because it's difficult to communicate, try, try today on the situation as people live, barely pay their bills, barely pay their food, and it's going to be so frustrating for the doctors of family medicine who are already squirming from work because people, in particular, haven't recovered from the crown yet, yet they need to be squeezed and they need to be punished by the additional system. It's not a problem solved. The European countries to which you are calling have independent bodies interdisciplinary that make independent decisions, not at subjective level where the doctor one will say you have cirrhosis at 50% you can, in Čakovec will say if you can't. And then what we're going to do is we're going to go after both of the two doctors because we're going into a legal proposal without certain basics, and that's why we can't support this part of the law that's just haunting our family medicine doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114168	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Andrea Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114169	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. from the MUP, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, in this final proposal of the law, we will firstly repeat and define what was accepted during the debate at first reading, so wearing a helmet for all drivers of personal means of transport, the obligation to own first aid boxes and to include the intervention vehicles of the Croatian Red Cross in an article of the existing law. And what has not been adopted at all, and for which we are criticizing and we will continue to criticise, hoping that you will respect at least what you will now hear during this debate and in the amendments is particularly the part relating to driver's health checks, so Article. In 37, as I have already said, evidence that you have no respect for the opinion of professions, medical associations, patient associations and opposition. It was a public consultation with a number of reasonable remarks, we had a thematic session dedicated to this particular Law on Road Safety on 4.11. with a number of stakeholders from the profession, patients could hear what things would happen if this law was adopted, so that what you prescribe in the proposed amendments to the law will not solve road safety, and will cause immeasurable damage to our citizens' health and health. It is tragic that traffic experts, police and the judiciary are not able to solve the problem of too many road accidents, but all of this is being transferred to the back of doctors, especially family doctors. From the data that you certainly have better than we do, but we heard at the the thematic session the biggest cause of the accident are on the roads too fast, mobiles, alcohol, not temporary health change. That's what we learned from you, although you probably don't have the full data, if you have, you'll tell us. The profession itself says that the only doctors are authorized to approve car management specialists in medical work. He already mentioned, we also mentioned in the breaks or requests for a break, why our country does not look up to other countries. Here's an example of Great Britain where it's very clear that there's a government agency dealing with traffic security, their job is to issue permits, determine who, when and why he loses his license and when he can get it again. And there are experts in these agencies, not family doctors, who are experts, but the burden is not on family medicine doctors. In the UK, this document clearly shows, has a developed website, and every driver in auto-schools is educated in the use of that page or on the basis of their health status. All health conditions are listed in alphabetical order and in addition to them and instructions. If someone has to contact the agency because of their condition, when they have to call, if they're going to get a limit, how long, etc., it's all a line, and the fine of a thousand pounds if someone doesn't sign up alone. And with us, all responsibility is transferred to doctors, especially family doctors, and now unless the patient is reported to be subject to possible criminal and criminal responsibility. Unfortunately, in Croatia, medical care is not worth the presummation of innocence but the presummation of guilt, in every way it blames the doctor and the sister, and then let them defend themselves not to be guilty and to prove it. Of course it is necessary to warn the patient, write in his medical records, explain to him how his medicine can work, warn him of his responsibility, but the doctor’s job should not be to report a certain very broad description of the health conditions of his patients to the police. In the end line, what are these conditions? What are these diagnosiss, what medications, what doses? We don't have anything prescribed by the health administration yet, so the driver's health checks rule is announced within 12 months, so our only hope, our only hope, our profession and all our citizens, because this is going to hit our citizens' backs very hard, so our only hope is if the slowness of the ministry that needs to be passed by a rule within 12 months comes out again and the rule doesn't come out. So the ministry's creaminess doesn't bring a lawyer all happy. That's number one. Number two, if you're finally going to listen to what your waist says in that rulebook, and we're always talking to the end line for the first reading and you haven't listened to it, then I think it's actually very little hope that you'll listen to this rule on driver health checks. Furthermore, this bill of law has already said that trust between a doctor and a patient will be violated. It may occur that the patient will not present important medical information to the doctor because of possible sanctions or reports for fear of temporarily losing his driver’s license, so he will not take medicines, will not respond to the examinations, systematic checks are now announced, so that the patient will come to you and contact you with some confidence. Half of his symptoms will be suppressed in fear that you'll report him. So let's not interfere with the existing law that defines in art. 233 which states must be reported. We're talking about temporary conditions that are not defined at all, or we know the diagnosis, or the dose of drugs, or someone in one hospital or one office is going to bring an opinion, or someone else, so we don't have any order and we don't have any legal certainty. So, the intensity of this law is not to drive a doctor away but to impose additional burden and punishment with possible incidents, conflicts with patients, possible lawsuits, possible burdens from insurance companies. We were already talking about the example of 2019. Who got the first one? A family doctor who had never even heard from a patient, a woman had no idea the patient was released from the hospital. She's the first one to go. And you know who charged her? The insurance company for 600,000 kuna I know, because my colleague from my county, and the one who caused her a car accident, that patient was only later asking him what it was. Therefore, this law is not good, a good and confidential relationship with the patient should be broken down, and in the end, if you are going to insist that the data should be entered into CEZIH and that we are telling you all the time that there should be a patient’s admission to the chart, but not a police report, or CESIH. Then remove that misdemeanor or criminal responsibility of the doctor for these temporary conditions. So we're talking about temporary conditions where it's difficult to assess what's going to happen in seven days of taking the medicine, ten days of taking the medicine. Maybe someone's gonna take three months, maybe someone's gonna take the medicine for two days, and then three days won't because he's okay. So what? He's gonna call his doctor every time, so we're gonna click a little check in with CEZIH, we're gonna check out a little bit. It means total mess! You're saying the sanctions haven't been changed under this existing law. For me finely that paper in the infirmary, yesterday I took a picture of it nicely stands an article 233. Penalty 5 to 15 000 kuna, 1000 to 5000 kuna depending on whether a legal person or a natural person and this again applies to those conditions that are let's say permanent, where the patient really is not capable of driving. But this where you are now leading in Article 37(4) for these temporary conditions someone is spending a pill I don't know Normabell for two days and now don't report it and now you're going to pay 5,000 kuna. I mean, where's the point? Yeah? It was organized and organised, as I said the thematic session, was also round table at 11 months where representatives of professional associations, representatives of the Croatian Medical Chamber, co-ordination of family medicine, patients' rights associations warned, medical work. So, everyone warned unfortunately from the MUP was no one. So they warned about what would happen if this law was passed. The Association for Patients' Rights says it is clear by law, that the right to patient privacy and data protection is number one. If you share further information including CEZIH, the MUP must ask for patient permission. Therefore, the issue of medical ethics, data protection, confidentiality rights, the Law of Medicine, etc. So we've already said that there's a number one family medicine that's on the front line that's going to steal, but of course all of us doctors in the hospital structures, emergency medical care, etc. What about those doctors who don't have access to CEZIH? What about them? Therefore, this law is not good. Either you adopt all those amendments we've asked for, or simply that law has to go to full work because it's no good. And as a colleague in the family told his patients, he's going to tell them like this. When you come for a car checkup, you may not be able to come home, because I will report you for some medicine. Well, here you come with someone for a checkup, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114170	Thank you. Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Emil Daus will now speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although here they are, of course, representatives of the resolution ministry, given the main topic we are talking about today, it wouldn't hurt to have a representative or a representative from the Ministry of Health, because even though the Road Traffic Act here is the most talk about actually the reviews, about health care, about the medical profession. And that's a lot of us who don't have anything to do with the medical profession at all, but we followed very well, listened, and we got various e-mails, calls from the profession itself. And compared to the first reading, we note that virtually none of the proposals by the representatives of the health profession were accepted. To remind ourselves again of the coordination of Croatian family medicine, which suggested that problems be resolved by informing the patient that he should not drive the vehicle, to stay between the doctor and the patient, in a way that the doctor can seduce it in medical documentation, to hand over the patient while only on the special request of police officers would the doctor be obliged to provide such a notice. The Croatian Medical Chamber has announced a review of the constitutionality of the law in the Constitutional Court if the final version of the law is to be voted on in such a way as to contain not only the obligation of the doctor of family medicine to report a change of health but also their criminal liability. The Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights called on citizens yesterday to sign a petition, opposing the intention of doctors forwarding information about their patients to the police because it violates the law guaranteeing patients' rights. Some professions are unable to carry out jobs in their workplace due to the so-called a warning which currently restricts their constitutional right to work and the right to the availability of a job defined in Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Although the promoter stated that the draft amendments in question included health ministry staff with due respect, which I said in the first reading of the health administrations is not a medical profession on the ground, and if changes to the law exclude the medical profession in charge of determining the driver’s health skills, and in particular, there is no way of achieving quality changes to the law itself, resulting in a resulting and improving road safety. And there are many terms, the contents that we mentioned in the first reading, pointed to them. Some will remember today as the term of the chosen doctor. How and how patients will be warned. All those unselected doctors, for example, hospital, non-patient specialists, those who are not selected doctors of family medicine, gynecology, dentistry, who do not have access to CEZIH. I don't know if this has been worked up and improved in the meantime, but CEZIH was not allowed access to medical professionals who determine the health skills of the driver and on the long side made it possible for the members of the MUP. And isn't that a little bit weird? We further point out that the introduction of a period of reasonable doubt giving police members the right to derivate the assessment of the driver's medical ability determined by the competent specialist of medical work and consular associates on the basis of an anonymous and adversative suspect. So I don't know if there is a provision in any other legislation of the Republic of Croatia to question the decision of a doctor because of a reasonable suspicion of a member of the police and because of which further proceedings are being carried out and... additional costs due to the reference to the opinion of the health authority on the review of the second-degree committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is further worrying about us, and I believe that there is also a colleague who thinks about those who live in rural areas because over 90% of Croatia is rural and who do not have available public transport, is that issuing a warning about changing the health status of the driver's license is caused by additional costs and procedures caused by restrictions on mobility. In the light of the legislator's proposal for amendments to the law, it says that the changes want to achieve savings for drivers, I just don't know what it says when it says that the compensation for the health examination of drivers who are unhappy with issued warnings about the change in wages is the same driver. The bill also introduces the liability of a driver who has been given a warning about a change of health status, but I am not yet clear within any period and which, by means of which the driver is entitled to appeal on the alert currently in question, which currently loses the right to drive vehicles. What's a fact, and it's already heard today, the law will be harmful and will not reduce the number of severe traffic accidents because of traffic accidents, and we all know that very well, unfortunately, the speed, alcohol, the lack of experience of younger drivers, hanging, non-compliance with traffic regulations, and somewhere around 0.02%, as I heard today morning, the profession itself, the change of health. And what I said and at the stop, let's not forget that drivers can buy medicines that affect their ability to drive without a prescription without going to a doctor, what in such cases? And I want to draw attention to another important moment as well as to the debate in the first reading. The proposed amendments to the Law do not cover the area of determining the health capabilities of older drivers, periodic examinations of them. We know that the young, the population of young people are much more often and most actually, if they look at age groups, it causes traffic accidents. If there were speeds and inexperience, etc., but as I said before in the replica, biology was just as inexorable and it was, it was, and it was past 2013. Nine years and nothing's changed. The subject area in our country is not adequately regulated and is contrary to existing EU practice and should be able to gain some courage, perhaps not the most popular, but we are not engaged in populism but also in managing these societies, to gain courage and to regulate that problem further. And finally, let's get out of this doctor's office a little bit more where I think we're going towards traffic, without adequate transport infrastructure, built in accordance with the latest safety regulations for the reputation of developed European countries, we're not going to reach the level of road safety. And I don't only think about bike paths, romobiles, electric romobiles, but also more quality and safer roads for motor vehicles, we have many long-term, inadequate, arranged road crossings across the track so that I don't tell you how many are in Istria without, not at all, no bumpers, no ramps; time-consuming and new times unadjusted traffic signalling, etc. While there is the fear of pedestrians to be hit by an electric car on foot in an urban environment like Zagreb, Rijeka, I don't know, Split, Pula and while the driver of a rhombus or bicycle is afraid of being hit by a vehicle on a local road, unclassified in a rural environment, we haven't solved the problem or will solve any law. Not this one either. So there's a parallel to building the transport infrastructure itself. It's not simple, it's not cheap and it won't be built in a year. But it can be considered strategically, especially since we have had EU funds available. But with that, we should start on time and then prepare the paperwork and everything that comes next, but we seem to be late again. The IDS representative club will not support this legislative proposal primarily for the reasons we heard today, no proposal for a profession or opposition on the subject of medical examination has been accepted. These changes in the system must not be carried out without a previous expert and scientific analysis, and I repeat once again, I do not know when it has been so deaf to the proposals of the profession and not a single proposal has been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114172	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists will speak to the esteemed representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114173	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is a step in regulating traffic safety and reducing almost daily black statistics even though we have certain objections and I will propose amendments to improve the Law and thus to improve road safety. The problem of the existing legislation on road safety is not only lack of regulation but also often inconsistencies and we hope that these changes after the proposed amendments to the law or that the law will be applied zealously and consistently, not as part of so far. I believe that the best prevention of road safety is the daily increased presence of police officers in traffic, i.e. on the road and here should be put emphasis if we want to increase traffic safety on the roads. Anyway, with us each new law implements the campaign during the first few months, and then slowly, that blade melts. As far as the Law itself is concerned, I have doubts about two proposed legal decisions, each of which includes positive provisions, but also provisions of certain open questions. First, it refers to the part of the Act which regulates the identification and temporary ability of the driver, since this bill transfers the responsibility for driving the vehicle during the duration of the health incompetence entirely to the doctor, although it should be exclusively on the driver himself, as is the case in the alcoholised state driving. In the light of the Law, it states that the provision is amended because, among other things, the administrative discharge of the physician, however, the text of the proposal arises exactly the opposite. Not only does the proposed change increase the existing administrative obligations of the doctor, but new obligations are also introduced that should not be part of the doctor’s work, and especially not of all doctors who treat drivers. Legal changes introduced by previous legal changes to doctors are subject to the obligation to submit changes to the driver’s health status together with the possibility of sanctioning and failing to comply with that obligation. Because of the concern that they have not been sanctioned in recent years, doctors have begun to submit health changes notices in a significantly larger number of cases, even for some minor health problems, and drivers are generally assessed as health and well-behaved with such health problems. If the medical examination found that the driver was capable of managing the motor vehicle, the compensation was paid by the police administration. Therefore, in the context of the amendment of the law, a new provision has been proposed whereby doctors, in the event of a driver’s disease, who assess only temporarily for a maximum duration of 6 months and who are appropriate to influence the ability to drive a vehicle, have decided on the temporary inability of drivers to drive. Such a way of confiscation of the right or prohibition of driving on the road during the time of the warning has been legally questioned and must not be left to doctors, and in particular not to all doctors who carry out any examination or treatment of the driver, but to the MUP, who may also give such a measure exclusively after examination of doctors specialised in the examination of the driver. Medicine works. In view of the already existing scope of performing medical activities, and the obligation to withdraw the right or prohibition of driving on the road is not and must not be a job or obligation concerning all doctors. In addition, the introduction of such an obligation would greatly disrupt the relationship between a doctor and a patient based on trust and likely increase the pressure on doctors. I think that doubt is quite clumsyly resolved over an article. The 54th century 5. The rules on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers. I think it should define all health conditions that cause temporary inability to drive. The notification obligation should only exist in the case of a permanent or serious impaired driver’s health condition and should be regulated in such a way that the Regulation clearly prescribes the condition that doctors are obliged to report. I also think that after that, finally and after more than 2 years. their use on Croatian roads legally regulate and participate electric romobiles in transport. The arrangements for the transport of such personal means shall be in line with the provisions relating to the similar categories of vehicle so far envisaged. I welcome the inclusion and definition of these relatively new environmentally acceptable and increasingly numerous means of transport in the provisions of the new law, and we are pleased that the proposals from the public debate on increasing the power of such vehicles from 0.25 kilowatts to 0.6. This regulation also makes these vehicles functional for adults because they can overcome the appropriate slopes. In any case, it is a means recognised by citizens, entrepreneurs and numerous cities in the context of encouraging mobility and supplementing public transport at the time of the energy crisis, which has no carbon footprint and improves the quality of transport in the city. Although these vehicles have significant benefits, safety standards relating to their management must not be ignored. Limitation of e-romobile speed but differ in EU countries, e.g. in Germany, Sweden and Norway, it shall, at a maximum of 20 km/h, in Belgium, Austria and Madrid, be the same 20 km/h, and in Germany the rhombus must be provided, and shall monitor the correctness of the rhombus, which shall be demonstrated by the label issued by the insurance undertaking. The safety of romobile management is a particularly important issue that must not be ignored in relation to the expected benefits and I will state certain facts in favour of this. The average rhombus most used in the Republic of Croatia has an electric motor of 250 watts and achieves a speed of 25 km/h. At that speed, the wheel spins cca. 610 turns per minute while the number of wheels of the average bike is at such speed cca. 200 turns per minute of everything. The wheel of the bike has a significantly larger mass than the wheel of the rhombus and, despite the less speed of the spin, causes a significantly better gyroscopic effect, the resulting bike is much more stable than the rhombus. The small wheels of the rhombus are extremely sensitive to the imbalances, which is why since the rhombus doesn't have... The wheel of every hole, not to mention the shaft, grid or lid, can cause a dangerous loss of stability of the rhombus. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Romobile is more difficult to manage in terms of rapid detour and pedestrian avoidance, so there is a great danger of walking on foot or falling off the road. Romobile can be driven without a problem and at a speed corresponding to the average walk of an adult 4 to 5 km/h, therefore there is no technical obstacle not to limit the speed of driving to 5 km. Therefore, the major problem associated with the e-romobile relates to brake stability on a slightly slippery stake, and certainly... and avoiding bumps and brakes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, it is difficult to see the car, and we daily witness that such drivers are particularly invisible in winter times on poorly lit roads because neither bicycles nor electric romobiles are usually equipped with adequate lighting. These safety risks for the use of romobiles should certainly be taken into account in particular in towns where they move mostly among pedestrians and we witness so - called. It's almost the wild west. According to statistical indicators in the first 10 months of 2021. 275 people were killed in traffic accidents on Croatian roads, which for 54 people or 26% more compared to the same period last year, 206 deaths were the most common causes of the accident being too fast and alcohol. We therefore commend that by changing the law, it also puts the focus on unadjusted speeds because we believe that the height of the driver's punishment will somehow deter from committing the offence as the most common cause of severe car accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114174	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS, and the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak, she is gone, she is losing her right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Rightful Croatian Honored Representative Miroslav Škoro, who is gone, loses his right to speak. Now it's the House Movement Representatives' Club, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ, according to the respected representative Mario Kapulica, is missing, losing his right to speak, so Green-left bloc representative Ivana Kekin's club is respected. She's gone? He's losing his right to speak. The next Club of Representatives is that Social Democrats will speak to the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic. She's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So the next one will speak on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club and the Workers' Front, respected representative Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114175	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's lucky we're from HSS so we can break up a series of people who aren't there, but they're probably prevented from something, they'll discuss it another time. As far as this law is concerned, which is shown in public as a law that zinc will have to doctors give us patients and give away everything that we spend, so as not to be suspicious and insecure in traffic. But how badly this law is written, where it is seen that the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. Here, I'll tell you in an article of 30. Stock vehicles are allowed to be operated on state and county roads by a person who was 16 years old and on other roads by a person who was 14 years old. So the unclassified roads are the roads in the city where that person must be 16, 14 years old can be managed by a wagon. A wagon can have one, two, four, eight horses and a vehicle like that can be operated by a 14-year-old. But Article 16 states that a person who turned 16 may take part in road traffic on a riding animal. Whoever wrote this is really gonna say the right word, idiot. I think it's easier to run a horse than with eight horses and a wagon vehicle that has its own gauges and that can do far more damage on the road in traffic and far greater consequences with it. So you haven't thought about what you're writing at all. Second thing, therapeutic riding. Did you hear about the therapeutic ride? In my street of Stjepan Radić in Kutina, there is a porch that deals with therapeutic riding that comes with children with various health problems that release them by riding on horseback. Such children are put on a horse and carried through the street, through a village on a flat ground because they are not great riders and they should not be involved in therapeutic riding if they are not 16 years old. Here are the doctors, ask how many children are under 16 who need therapeutic riding. And now they're gonna say someone here's Lenart's rude, he called people in the ministry an idiot. Aren't they? Aren't they? I ask you colleagues of mine who are stressed can I say they don't use Normabel? Can I say they don't use Normabel? Well, sometimes you have to relieve the organism using Normabel. Well, everyone uses the ones who wrote the law. And what are we going to do about it secretly? Right? Now I'm going to go over to the Bosnian Dubica, buy the Croatian Normabelle card, have it for a year, no one will know because someone might sanction me, because someone wants to get my doctor to report me to spend Normabel, because then I'm unaccountable. I don't think the people who wrote this obviously don't go to the doctor regularly, don't sit in the waiting room and see what that doctor is doing familyly how much he has to do, what's going on in his office, that even so crowded with all these jobs he's got on his back today. We are a society where there are more and more older people, in which there is an increasing health picture of our citizens. Well, that doctor's got too much to do in his regular work, let alone doing what you want to impose on him by having to and rat on us hunters, so if we're in some kind of trouble, we're spending something. Brother dear, call the MUP because that Lenart guy over there drank two Normabelles. He can't have a gun anymore. So the absurdity of Croatian laws is right on this law. On the other hand, Article 51 says the driver is obliged to adapt the speed of the vehicle to the characteristics and condition of the road. Yes, and any of us who drives a vehicle whether it was worth 500 euros, 10,000 or 50,000 euros is sorry to break down his vehicle and will normally adjust the speed of movement to the conditions that are on the road. But here are the Ministry people to think about driving from Banova Jaruga to Kutina above Ilova. There is one overpass on which there are several such bulging asphalts that you can get kicked out of a beat and no matter how much speed you have adjusted, you can land into someone and you can do great damage. Especially the motorcyclists. I'm driving a motorcycle, too. Well, you know what the problem is when you're driving and you run into a thing like that on the road. Well, no one in this law talks about problems on Croatian roads. How many car accidents have been caused by bad roads. Since I'm from the city of Kutina, when you drive on that road, it's county road 31, 24 pass Petrochemy you come to such tracks that will bring you back to trouble no matter what kind of vehicle you drive. I also ride with a personal car, ride with a tractor that can pull 20 tons of cargo behind me, ride with a motorcycle. I've encountered problems a hundred times bigger than these people who drank Normabel and run a personal car. Normally, the people who wrote didn't remember that we also had rural spaces, that we had people who didn't have a taxi, a tram, a bus, and they had to get to a doctor. Do you know that many of our people unfortunately don't have a car but use their tractor to go 20 km to the doctor because they have no bus connections and now such old and sick people that their doctor will have to report, I don't know how they'll be coming to this doctor, how they'll do the most minimum of their needs if they can't move on some kind of vehicle, and usually they're moving on some roadways, because the further away from Zagreb traffic, the less and less people, the less they mean only punishments, the only restrictions, and the part that you can influence is education, I don't see here education in this law, you haven't mentioned education, that pedestrians are being educated, that cyclists are not riding on a bike but they're already saying we're going to punish you with 300 kunas. Penalties, every day of punishment, people have no more to pay for bread, let alone pay a great deal of fines, normally that traffic violations will always be because every normal man is wrong and you and me who have written the laws and who explain them here and all of us sitting here because we live under great stress, often you don't even watch a mile of hour in our traffic all the time instead of following traffic. A county road that goes from Ludina to Borovec restricted 60, from Borovec to Gradiška 70, same road, but it's another state? These are the problems that we have, and not that someone took some medicine, drank it today, so don't drink it three months later, and don't put the burden on family doctors because they're already too much, too few have, people have left that branch or gone out of the country where they can work more normally and still will, and these doctors who are already retired or could already retire and say, "Brother, I've had enough of this, I'm going to retire, I'm not going to deal with this anymore. Just the negative thinking of all ministries as if we're all thieves, brother, so we're not thieves, so it's clear where the thieves are convicted, it's proven who the thieves are, you stick to them, not the common people who suffer, who suffer the inflation that hits him on the head today, who tomorrow won't have gas at the gas station, who will not have gas to warm up, the heating tree has come to 450 kuna, I'm asking you how the Croats will live, and you're still burdening both the doctors and you're putting on their sentences and don't take care of the most normal things that you should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114176	On behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114177	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law has been in the works for a long time, and here we have come to the final proposal. I kind of appreciate that it would be good, since it's a law that caused quite a big and fierce debate in public space to be presented to us by the minister. There are some good customs of some ministries and ministers who come and stand behind the bill, there are those that can be seen only in the current hour, and it would be good for the minister to be here and defend, especially as a major dispute has arisen in the public space with regard to doctors. But when I said in creation, I mean not only this concrete proposal that we have in our second reading assembly today but also for some time when it was quite clear that we have certain situations and certain things that this law does not know at all. I mean, first of all, electric romobiles and similar vehicles. There sometime in 2019, before all these crowns, earthquakes, wars and all that hit us, the GLAS Party in the parliamentary procedure submitted a proposal for complementarity which defined the conditions and methods related to the electric romobile and similar vehicles. This proposal defined the concept of small electric vehicles, characteristics and speeds, the powers of JLS, the obligation to use lights, reflective vests, helmets, etc., of which the government has rejected the proposal as well as the updated one that I have referred to in the procedure in this conference and which is still on the agenda with an explanation that it is not a complete solution. This explanation is no news of any kind, as soon as the opposition decides to go with a proposal that is not even a topic of the world-wide view, which is not even a topic of division in society, but even as easily as the government says, we will not go with the whole solution and it is good that we finally get it and define it. In this case, therefore, this bill recognises the personal means of transport as they have been called and the characteristics are arranged, whether they are electric or driven by fossil fuels, they are romobiles, monocycles and the like. I would like to say immediately and stress that it is good that the government recognized our proposals that were in the first reading, which is the obligation to wear helmets and that it is, helmets, not just as it was in the proposal in the first reading until 16 years. age. So, from that 2019 to today, when we talk about romobiles or primarily electric romobiles and all other things have changed significantly, so in 2019 there were far fewer of them than there are now, certain cities, states and others have recognized what is happening here. Those who today produce can also develop speeds up to 40-50 km/h, all of us who are in traffic regardless of how pedestrians or anyone else see them every day, see them on our streets more and more and more see them that and delivery have become increasingly useful and is simply necessary and the need to define this by this law. I'm going to say a little more about it later, because I think maybe we should take a step further, but here we are. That some new times are coming is also recognized in this law because it introduces an automated vehicle that moves completely autonomously with hardware and software, it's actually interesting that we should prescribe it, but obviously it will be an interesting way to see these vehicles in traffic at all. And what I'm curious about is whether these automated vehicles could be illegally parked because when people park cars, it's a pretty common phenomenon. I don't know if it's going to be a phenomenon with these vehicles because this law somehow handled various spider services where the driver carries the costs of moving the vehicle not only when the vehicle is being moved but also when it's trying to move, so there's no more playing what's being paid for, there's no paying, there's also an attempt to move the vehicle. Speaking of parking and speaking of parking, it's a good thing it's a parking ban on an electric charger because it kind of seems to me like it's the most normal thing. Imagine if you happened to come to a classic gas station and there was a car where a car was permanently parked, there was no parking space and he had a nice parking lot in the gas station. I think it would somehow be considered that it might be a bit of a question about where that decision came from, and quite often we see that in a place that's meant to charge a car, not that it would be much, but that it's parked out there somewhere, so I don't have any dilemmas at all. But I want to go back to the rhombus once again that's the topic that I've been working really hard on, and I think that's something to take care of. So let's put a few situations in place, they can move on a bike path or lane if they exist, but they can't move if they can't move along a sidewalk or a pedestrian zone. I think that provision is too general, and the more the law obliges to limit the speed of 25 km/h, I think that's where the speed should have been defined when it comes to romobiles depending on which surfaces they move. If romobiles can move where they move and pedestrians so we have mixed foot traffic and romobiles then its speed should not be greater than 5 to 7 km/h or should be defined by walking speed. Of course, I am further warning because he therefore has the opportunity to move where he is on foot to move on the bike track and to move on those roads that are intended for different types of traffic and compared to that he should have defined his speed by seeing today how far the romobiles have gone, I'm sure he should have already introduced the insurance provision. The absence of insurance or a rather undefined provision in the law will certainly introduce additional problems because now that the rhombus is not defined by law when there is an accident between the rhombus and pedestrians, the rhombus is treated as a pedestrian, so in the future, the rhombus will be treated as a rhombus. As far as pedestrians and romobiles are concerned, I think the pedestrian is always on foot because no matter who he's with, he's in a really subordinate position, and I'm sure there's a need to think very carefully already in this bill to determine the provision of insurance. Since I mentioned the crashes in Art. The 112s of the law in the 7th paragraph provides one extremely important thing, “bike drivers and personal means of transport must, when crossing a zebra if the bike path is not marked, get off a bicycle or a romobile and push it as a foot,” so it is something that still creates major problems in traffic today. And that is why there are a lot of different actions, education and everything else, I suggest to the Ministry that one of the educations be after this law can be interesting and convenient videos so that people can educate what and how they should and how they can be used to define and related to the use of earphones and everything that is defined in this law should not or under what conditions for the simple reason that all of us who are involved in traffic could get good and timely information. All the previous ones who spoke before me, and will likely be spoken in an individual debate, and there is a further dispute which is both a dispute and a problem in public between the doctor's issue and their obligation to inform the police of the temporary incompetence of the driver for driving. I took a deep breath for the simple reason that there were very many objections, there were remarks from the doctor, there were objections in the first reading, it seems to me that this is really a problem, and it seems to me that the competent ministry for this law has decided to be so stubborn, and I'm afraid that this will continue to lead to major problems and that neither this draft law He didn't solve it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114178	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114179	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's first say what are the basic problems of road safety at first is speed, this law defines increased penalties for speeding almost double penalty and ok this is one approach that can pass even though I think in that part of the prevention too little in general in Croatia does. Another problem is alcohol addiction and intoxicating drugs as causes of road injuries. I guess that's what we're happy with, even though we can't be satisfied because very little or no reduction in the number of accidents under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs especially those terrible with mortals, with fatal outcomes in the early morning, and we already know how terrible it looks and how much loss of human, human lives is. In third place there's a common disease and a dispute about someone reporting someone, that someone's gonna rat on somebody, so you're this one, and we can translate these dilemmas any way we want. I can very freely raise my hand to this law knowing in advance that if the health profession and the police need to agree on a rule that this will never happen. That it would never happen. Therefore, the damages with this law in general can not be the most unchanged, unchanged situation, therefore without difficulty I can vote for this bill. Now, let's move on. In the full range of these speeds, drivers, doctors, road drivers, the whole time there's a game of hide-and-seek, a transfer of responsibility, and it'll take as long as there's traffic, as long as we have concessionaries on the roads, etc. There's no more insurance than a wild game. Okay, the Department of Agriculture is looking for a solution that drivers, now it's this empty space where obviously if something happens, drivers will have to suffer damage from the attack of savages, and the solution is to make these cases happen, they'll be secured. And you know how nice the roadmen are to make sure of that, concessionaries? Instead of lifting the fence and assessing where the gamer can cross, they put a warning mark on the highway 10.7km long. So, these drivers where they're allowed to drive 110 an hour must now have a new indication of the threat of an attack of savages in the length of 10.7 kilometers. Well, it's not a highway, it's not a simple village or I don't know the municipal roads where it's possible, it's a highway, it's a highway, so where the speeds are very high. Such, such games are inadmissible. It's inadmissible to run out of insurance, insurance from an attack of savages someone must have. As for the letters you all received from the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations. I understand that they need transportation for both treatment and all. However, the assumption that this law or amendments will damage trust in the relationship between a doctor and a patient and endanger medical secrets as well as a possible violation of the right to the patient’s privacy. To which the doctor’s secret or the patient’s privacy applies. She's sacred. It's valid until the moment he doesn't start endangering other people's lives. And my professional safety at work. And motor vehicle management is a dangerous asset management. That's the wording. It's a dangerous device management just like a motor crane, same as heavy machines, heavy trucks, etc., it's driving a car. So our right to privacy, our right to medical secrecy exists as long as it does not endanger the life and safety of others. And I'll say one more thing. I'm sure transferring a ball to family doctors isn't the happiest solution, and there's gonna be a lot more, a lot of speeches about it. This will not happen here because the law has provided a framework for this medical profession to decide who and how to say give a temporary or permanent, permanent ban. There will be a lot, a lot of slow on, like this on the first one, a deadline for the adoption of a rulebook of one year too long, and it may be too short given the recommendations between, in the profession itself, between the profession and therefore the person in charge of security. What I can do from my personal experience here is suggest the following. I worked in a shipyard that no longer has an oil company as a work security engineer, when it comes to changes in the working ability caused by illness, injury at work, etc., never, and they were specialists in medical work, never a specialist in medical work I decided on, so I think this is a temporary prevention for work and in the future the family doctor will not decide for himself. Perhaps a compromise solution that will be taken will be a decision on someone’s temporary or permanent prevention or, therefore, a permanent or temporary health condition in which a car is to be banned from driving will have to be decided by teams in which he must at least be a doctor, at least a psychologist to see how it affects the person who is driving or how it reflects on the environment. And in any case, it has to be someone who understands the safety of road traffic and they will have to team-take responsibility for someone’s temporary denial of driver’s license or right to drive a motor, motor vehicle. And the last thing I'm saying is that it's already been said, our traffic signalling is not consistent, it's not consistent with those speeds that are prescribed or the state of the roads and the speed regulations are not in line. That's what I can say. The tunnel Učka has two-way traffic, so on the same track they go to each other's vehicles to meet, it has a limit of 80 kilometers per hour. The tunnel Škurinje in Rijeka where you have traffic on two strips in only one direction has a limit of 60 per hour. Okay, I understand that at the end of that tunnel there's a way out, but whether the whole tunnel has to be 60, and there's two lanes moving in the same direction, so when the risk of an accident is the smallest. The same should be taken more into account, more care should be taken, and should be planned to be in some way unequivocal in most of Croatia's roads. We have a right to talk about it because at least a million and 200 thousand kilometers in the 21st year. In the end, I also want to express my satisfaction that what our club has advocated has been accepted for wearing helmets in these modern traffics and I am finally saying that we will support this proposal of the law of the HNS, HSU Club and the independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114180	We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114181	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Here I will speak in my individual debate from the perspective of a healthcare professional who will also be concerned by this law. Well, now the existing law in Article 233 defines that we healthcare professionals are required to have a medical examination or in the course of treatment if we find that the driver is suffering from a disease or has a disability for which he is no longer able to manage the vehicle safely, warn the patient, inform the police administration, and if we do not do so, the penalty is for the legal person 5 to 15,000 kuna and for the physical 1,000 to 5,000 kuna. But what brings this, these now, these amendments to the law. Therefore, Article 37(4) refers to the application for temporary changes in the situation up to 6 months. And now from the perspective of a diabetic means a number of ours, our people who have diabetes use a number of medicines that can interact with each other, means interact with each other and cause side effects. And here's one example I mentioned in the replica, that you only have one medicine that has a low risk of hypoglycaemia, and you, according to your expertise, assess that the patient should not be reported. However, the patient did not eat enough of that one day, he was physically active, took a pill, and hypoglycaemia occurred during which a car accident occurred. And what happens now? So, will the patient be charged, will it be the diabetic's fault, will it be the family doctor's fault? The insurance company estimated that there is a small risk of hypoglycaemia in the literature, and the insurance company is burdening whom, so the doctor and doctor will be punished. And we haven't even prescribed a rule to know exactly what the drugs are, which are the conditions, so it's a complete mess that goes into law making, and I'm saying you don't listen to waist. As for people with diabetes here, I have a memo that probably went to all clubs, so people with diabetes who today are in Croatia what is through CESI are registered 32,000 with diabetes, and those who don't even know they have diabetes, so they can also have different symptoms that can cause a car accident, so there are 540,000. However, alone, the Association of Patients, the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations, says that by adopting the law, I quote food, caused by people with diabetes in such a way that they will appear less and less on the medical examinations of family medicine and diabetics because of the fear of temporary withdrawal of the driver's license. So we're not just talking to you as doctors who are going to be punished if we don't report it, we're talking to the patients themselves. Well, half of you, or maybe a third of you who spend medicines under this law should report you because any medicine can have a side effect on your ability to drive. And what's a third of you going to do, half of you won't drive or go looking for spaghetti at your family doctor's. Don't report me. If he doesn't report you, then the punishment goes to the doctor, then you don't know each other anymore. Furthermore, as the Association of Diabetes says. Therefore, trust will be violated in relation to the doctor and the patient, the medical secret, possible violations of the right to patient privacy will be compromised. This will lead to a small number of medical examinations of the person with diabetes from the fear of temporary withdrawal of the driver’s license, it will suppress changes in their medical condition, thus increasing logically and the number of complications of diabetes, and we already know that almost 20% is already going to treat complications of diabetes, meaning 20% of the HZZO budget. Furthermore, as they say, the adoption of this law opens up a black market space because a part of the patients will start buying their medicines in that way in general, beyond the doctor’s recommendation, whether a family, whether a diabetic, so you already have big problems. Furthermore, since they ask who will answer if a patient who has been diagnosed with a temporary inability to drive a motor vehicle raises a report against a doctor who has had to report it to the police and is in the court of judgment for the benefit of a patient, the patients themselves recognize the dangers. There are no recent studies that prove that people with chronic non-infectious diseases are the most common cause of traffic violations, and in this way also people with diabetes view this law as discriminatory and on this group, without talking about all other patients who are taking some kind of treatment that doesn't have to be 5 years old, so we're talking now within 6 months, you can give someone a medicine that you predict might use for a shorter period of time. So here in these amendments to the law, I repeat, we're not talking about some sort of permanent disorder, to me, or to some fellow ophthalmologist with diabetes who is permanently damaged vision and can't drive, so of course he can't drive and that he has to take off this ability to drive, but someone who's taking a pill is going to take two days, so there are no defined things and this law isn't good, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114182	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative, Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114183	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs. As a doctor and as someone who has read and processed the material well and in the material itself, it is stated that 30% of those who actually caused the accident under the influence of alcohol, so they are the biggest problem in the overall safety of road traffic. So I'm asking you as a doctor right now, you've certainly read the data as to how many accidents are caused by a driver's disease or by a traffic participant, so this could really be a trigger, which is why this area is so widely normalized?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114184	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114185	Thank you very much. So, I was saying on behalf of the club, we got some data in the thematic session, but now that it's recent data or not, it means that in the temporary changes in the health situation of only 3%, and 95% of accidents cause too much speed, cell phone and alcohol, and here I am being denied by the MUP or, or the secretary of state, so 95% are causing with this mentioned person from 25 to 35 years old, I did well remember, so you told us at the the the thematic session or the fellow family medicine, meaning 3% of the changed health situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114186	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Maric, I believe that today there would not be so much debate and so much accent on the question of the driver's health skills if the rule had been passed, right? I therefore consider a good amendment to the Legislative Committee, which states that there is no application of the Article. Articles 4 and 5, Articles 4 and 5 233. and only the moment that this new rule is adopted, this existing rule is completely unusable for this purpose, then by the example of those countries that have very well regulated it I think there will be a lot of obstacles that have been spoken of over the past months, you can never norm to cover everything, but no diagnosis can be an exclusive criterion, but there must be rules and around time, about the dose, the question of side effects and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114188	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114189	Thank you very much. So, a colleague and you are a doctor and all of us who are on the Health Committee have expressed our concerns about the adoption of these amendments to the laws exactly on what you have stated, so first there is no regulation, we do not have any data that doctors will actually be able to deal with, which are diagnosiss, which are doses, which are, etc., there are arranged things in other countries why it has not already been done with this, why it has not been notified in time that the Regulation will be adopted which will take into account all that is in other countries, we have cited an example of Great Britain as it has been arranged for them, meaning there is no application of a family doctor to CESI and to the MUP, but there is a concrete agency to which drivers must report and there are several experts and doctors who then make a decision. So we all know and we all know very well and you know that this law is wrong and we can only fix it so much with the rulebook, and the question is that it will be brought within 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114190	Thank you, thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114191	Dear colleagues, I'm interested in everyone today mentioning the MUP, which is, what do you think is the real motivation of the MUP to bring these amendments to the law and puts full responsibility on the doctors themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114192	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114193	Now, first of all, it's not clear to me why I want to say the duck in some way in this part that applies and imposes something that refers to what the doctor's profession would have to bring, and without listening to the medical profession, that's the first comment. The second thing, when that accident was in 2019, I was already out, so a colleague from our county was punished with 15 thousand kuna, an insurance company charged her with 600 thousand kuna, was not first asked who caused the accident. After that, family medicine doctors began to report mass in 2019, and in 2019 there were 8,000 views and then it turned out that some 2,000 exams were i.e. People lost their license, 6 grand isn't, who paid for it, the M.O.P. And in my opinion, what we all did together at these thematic sessions and on committees actually made some kind of decision that there was a motivator of the MUP that actually took the money and that the burden went to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114194	Thank you. Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we both know as doctors how important it is to provide first aid precisely at the places of traffic accidents and we see that this law defines explicitly how education of future drivers is conducted, who can do this education, who has a license for such education, and also how this law prescribes and owns the right box to provide first aid and prescribes a penalty for not owning the same. We have repeatedly witnessed regrettable testimony from people who found themselves at the scene, however they were not equipped at all with a box or box that was incompletely equipped or expired the duration of certain products in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114196	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114197	I absolutely agree with what you've said, we who have often actually been on the front line when you're either in an emergency service or anywhere, so you can actually see that the unhappy one might be better able to provide help if someone was there for him who was educated or at least had that first aid box. I agree with that, and we were also talking in our first reading about how that should be defined and I'm glad that this remark that we've made has actually been introduced into this law. And of course, it was a long time ago when I was taking the driver's license, but I remember there was education and first aid and it was normal for me to have a first-aid box and I'm taking it personally, but I'm saying that now I'm particularly glad that there has to be a box, if there's no proper box to punish that driver.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114198	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114199	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, for the sake of the Croatian public, we understand here but for the sake of the Croatian public. So like this, a man makes an accident, he does enormous material damage, the doctor didn't report that he was drinking any medication, then who's going to pay for that damage if this all goes away? Then it goes to the doctor? So, we can say that this law is a drug code that blackmails doctors, squeezes them against the wall, catches them by the throat and forces them to dissipate their patients because otherwise what they're going to do with loans, runs out of houses, no apartments? So who's crazy here, this is Alan Ford's team who wrote these laws? What's going on? Here, you're a woman of profession, a doctor, how do you view this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114200	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114201	Thank you very much, so we're warning you all the time. So on the one hand, and in the example, if you evaluate it, and the thing is still on the estimate, so we don't have any drug traffickers defined, is it going to be in the rulebook who knows. So based on some assessment of patient A, we're going to estimate that there's no big risk of driving, there's a car accident and even if you're not guilty of some kind of expert, insurance company assessing that you're guilty. Of course, you will pay your doctor a fine and not only as a legal person 5 to 15,000 kuna or as a physical 1 to 5,000 left behind, they have told us nice food from the existing law but the insurance company will still burden you. I gave you an example of a colleague, so I didn't make it up, 600,000 kunas charged her with insurance company, now they're arguing. So that'll get us this bill if you don't report it. If you report it then there's a file between the patients, the patients won't tell you what medications they're taking any other time, they won't show up for your checkup. They'll take some of their own. medicines. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114202	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114203	Dear colleague Maric, if you're right, hypoglycaemia is a nasty thing especially if it happened in the ride. And I've stayed in that state a few times, it's a condition very close to loss, loss of consciousness, you can't really do much of this. It's a terrible thing to drive, but I have 21 years of experience and a million and 200,000 miles across, and I know I have to run, I have to take care of myself, not my doctor, not my cop, not anyone. I am responsible for my health and it is from the aspect of my work safety profession, the one who drives, who manages the dangerous means, so it must maintain its health status. It must be wrong in the long run, and whatever someone else is carrying on his behalf, he is carrying on, carrying on, bearing responsibility. I hope that in this further debate there will be a lot of brains The wisdom and respect of other people's experiences to get to the good... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114204	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114205	Thank you very much, dear colleague, I hope they hear you here from the ministry, that they will respect the amendments that we are going to make and that this national law will say so, that it will not be voted upon. So it depends on all of you on Friday. I agree that it must be the doctor's responsibility in the part that you, as your patient, warn first about what disease is, what are the possible symptoms, what medicines you will give him, how this medicine works, I do it. It means whether it will happen, how you will avoid hypoglycaemia, how you will be treated, etc. So it's on the one hand the responsibility of us to educate the patient. That's what doctors and nurses do, but it's the responsibility of the patient to absorb what he's told, to be warned, to act on it, and not all of them to fire on the burden and criminal and criminal liability on the burden of the family doctor if he reports, if he doesn't report everything we've been saying. So you don't trust a doctor's patient. Fite, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114206	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114207	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, during the debate in the first reading on this law there were talks on the working group, on members of the working group, the secretary of state said then he spoke to representatives of the doctor and if they were not members of this working group, then he did not even know exactly who was in the working group, and now we have in this second reading a restatement of the great mistrust of the profession against the intensities of the legislator in this law in the future all these ambiguities will be regulated by an additional regulation. How justified is the lack of trust in the profession at this point, given the overall situation, or the impression is that the ministry does not know in which way it will regulate everything that follows after the adoption of this law if such a misunderstanding is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114208	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114209	Thank you very much. So, there were some 2018-2019 meetings of these representatives of the profession and the secretary of state, I know it was also a memo, here to be honest means something they talked about, but the problem is at first we don't even know who was in this task force and the second thing is everything that's their profession, so COHOM, medical chamber, patient associations, what they said to the ministry to bring or not bring because it's harmful to all of us, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's a problem, it means our resolute minister all calls for dialogue, and then no, no, it doesn't respect what the profession is telling him, so the dialogue that and then what you're told you to adopt, and not the code you never talked about, there's a problem, and if it's going to be a new rule of this profession, so I'll be warmly hoped, but I'd like to say you to adopt the amendments of these that we'll take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114210	Thank you, thank you very much. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114211	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Sacic has already mentioned this problem in front of the Sovereign Club, which actually stretches all day long, which is about the doctor. I will today deal with another part of the law that tries to regulate the use of personal means of transport under which various electronic, electric vehicles such as romobiles, motorcycles, segua and similar traffic are included. Given that electric scooters are relatively new in transport, it is clear that there is a need to regulate them, but not in the way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to regulate this law. Art. Point 1. This proposal for a law relating to smaller electric vehicles is a personal vehicle which is not classified in any category of vehicle according to specific regulations without a seating position whose engine volume is not more than 25 cm2 and whose permanent power of the motor is not more than 6,0,6 kilowatts and which cannot develop a speed greater than 25 km/h on a flat road and whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 km/h. This article had already been corrected once by the Ministry after public consultation, or increased the power of the motor from 250 watts to 600 watts, following a series of criticisms sent by interested parties during the consultation. It would be logical to assume that the ministry has come up with a 600 watt number by some kind of research or analysis, but that, in fact, would be fooled because this figure has absolutely nothing to do with the real world, it is an arbitrary number of bureaucrats. The 250 watts that were defined during the public consultation were at least prescribed by the Swedishs who certainly conducted analyses and research in their country unlike our ministry. The power limit of the electric motor to 600 watts is nothing more than the ministry's speculation about regulating something that shouldn't be regulated at all. Why didn't the ministry regulate motor vehicles in the same way with this bill, so she added an article that would prohibit the use of all motor vehicles whose maximum design speed does not exceed 130 km/h, which will give us such cars and engines that need them? Tourism is unfortunately our strongest economic branch in Croatia because our governments have not been able to make a strong economy and policies that would bring additional value to the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. So today I have to talk again about how such stupid regulations will affect the tourist offer in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, electric romobiles have become one of the main tools of tourists across Europe because they have been given a simple, easy and affordable way of exploring urban areas, but with such a law and this tool emerges from the hands of Croatian tourism. In Split or Rijeka tourists will not, tourists will not have the opportunity to explore cities because, there will be no offers of electric vehicles that have the ability to drive on a hill due to these dumb restrictions. The Republic of Croatia should be seen and followed by an example of other EU member states in defining such and similar vehicles in such a way as not to limit the permanent power of the electric motor because the restriction does not achieve the effect of strengthening security but rather the opposite. Research on the development of the light vehicle market and other personal vehicles, which is in March 2021. The presentations by the European Commission indicate that most new forms of personal means of transport require engine power to be stronger than originally prescribed because such vehicles fully rely on the power of the engine to overcome steep surfaces unlike vehicles which, with electric or other engines, have pedals to help them have a greater torque. It is also recommended that for all vehicles whose specifications are not described in EU Regulation no. 168/213 concerning the type-approval and market surveillance of a vehicle on 2, 3 or 4 wheels shall be prescribed by the maximum secret power of an electric motor of one kilowatt. As long as we have such arbitrary characteristics as the engine limit to 600 watts without any analysis, we cannot be better in Croatia, and as all laws are written in Croatia, so is this 600 watt regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114212	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114213	Here's an esteemed colleague we've had the opportunity to hear through the discussion and through the replicas of different circumstances, first of all, the medicine that can slow down the human body or constraint reactions that lead to, which could lead to traffic accidents, so a whole spectrum of these drugs is mentioned from those that act on the mental state to the health, and above all, to some kind of psychotics, I don't know, normables, xanaxes and all, etc., anti-diabetes but no one has even mentioned it, and I know about at least 3 cases, so maybe you ask you, maybe you know what the situation is, people are now vaccinated with this particular vaccine and in half an hour, 40 minutes in a car accident have ended, in the middle of a crossover. What does that waist say? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What's the situation with that? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114214	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114215	Thank you, fellow Sačić, so here are colleagues from HDZ, the profession has told them what it thinks about this law, how it has been passed and what these regulations mean for Croatian doctors, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what it will mean to prevent what is really the main objective of this law and prevent accidents on the roads. 0.02% if I'm not mistaken is caused by people who have caused some kind of car accident 0.02%. And that is enough reason for you to burden Croatian doctors to take over the role of the MUP, to take over the role of tip-offs to the state, to demean the freedoms of Croatian citizens and in some ways I would even tell them privacy about private treatment. I mean, it's a shame for Croatia, but I'll say it, obviously it's not a shame HDZ doesn't listen to the voice of the profession. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114216	The next debate will be a respected representative of Marin Miletic. Please don't come from the bench. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114217	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public must know this is to forgive me for saying the druker law that blackmails doctors and turns them into Drukers. To be plastic, this law blackmails doctors that if they don't drug their patients, and the patient blames the car accident, the damage is paid by a family doctor. Alan Ford is a sweet mother for this team who writes laws like this. So Alan Ford is a sweet mother. This law has serious consequences and the doctor’s and patient’s attitudes, causing anxiety, and mistrust. We heard today the profession of 95% of all accidents causes speed and alcohol, cell phone as well, speed and alcohol. And 3% changed medical condition. Now I'm going to give the HDZ mandate right now, on behalf of the MOST Club, burn down those who drink and drive, burn them down so they can't sleep anymore, so they don't have a house, so drunks who sit around for a car, make an accident, take their driver's license for 10 years. So you've been out of your driver's license for 10 years, and I'm gonna take your pants off. So it's a real law, and then if you do it again after 10 years, you're gonna be out of driver's license for life. So let's see who's driving drunk, then you gotta be a really crazy man, crazy man. So, that's where you'd show, please pass it on to the secretary of state, that would show courage, courage, we're saving lives on the street. So you're not driving drunks, and if you're drinking, then don't drive your friends, walk, public transportation, let your friend drive you, etc. It is therefore indisputable that primary health care in Croatia has been systematically devastated for years, especially family medicine. This is what my doctors from the Primorian-Gorski County are sending me, so I'm reading what people wrote to me now. They say I'm always honest to the end wherever it brings me. Thus, in the pandemic, the doctors of family medicine were further submerged with endless demands. Very often, family medical doctors learned from the media, received orders from the ministry, or from the headquarters of the ministry, which they must do even though it was not in their contracts as if this branch was not particularly burdened. The whole family medicine profession now has a big problem with the bill we're discussing. So in one of the paragraphs of the MUP, the ministry has made a commitment to doctors of family medicine that they are obliged to report patients practically withdrawing driver licenses to patients who are considered unable to drive. There are no criteria, at least for now, no algorithms for doctors to do that on. Nowhere in the world is it in the domain of exclusively family doctors although so far it has been a duty for doctors to report changes in the patient’s health condition and we have heard the same from colleagues, but it has been medicine that can only assess someone’s ability to drive. Even then the patients were once gunned down, attacked the doctors, insulted them by thinking that they were always right, so that's how it goes with us whether. The aggression of patients in the offices is increasingly common, it is the impression that patients are always entitled to everything, so very often from the benefits of their homes and chairs. The 9th family medicine office is now missing in the Primorje-Gorski County alone. So none of the young colleagues want to deal with it, they don't want to work in family medicine under this kind of press, they prefer to go to an emergency or elsewhere for other hospital specializations. The new law wants to transfer everything to family doctors which completely disrupts the relationship of trust, you will ask me now Hope, slowly, so the patient doctor, and no one here asks doctors what they think about setting it up. So at several meetings in the Health Committee, doctors' associations indicated in various other ways that this was not well designed. You get the impression that what the doctors say doesn't really work out for anyone, I don't know what we're saying, we say down there, you say that's your problem. So, I appeal once again, I believe, I'm a positive, irreparable optimist, I believe that when people hear that something can be better, that no matter what color uniforms wear that they can fix it. I really believe that. So, I'm asking you to fix it, so somehow you'll know better than I do, you're a legislator have the profession there, to fix this part, not to question the patient's relationship of trust and not to bring doctors into this truly ungrateful situation. Thank you, I see you will, I'm going to drink some water.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114218	We have more replicas, the first respected representative Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114219	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Miletic, here's a well-detected problem in this law or the main problem in this law, my question is this, according to some of the statistics we can see and what we know, far below 1% of the accident is actually caused when people on these medicines that are being talked about today? In fact, it will be the real effects of such a law, how much it will harm Croatian doctors, family doctors, as you have cited all the problems they have had so far. Do you think this is justified that in this way some precedents are actually put on Croatian doctors, and we will not see the benefits of saving lives in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114220	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114221	I'm not going to decode the secretary of state. So, if I've got my fellow doctors right here, so not some grandmother Wang, they've got fellow doctors here from ruling, so they'll talk, I'll listen. So 95% of all accidents are booze, alcohol, speed and cell phones, 95%. So let's fix it, we raise our hands, here's the bridges, I guess, it won't hit me on the head, we'll raise up, I tell you, we raise our hands, I'll say raise your hand and support it because it's good. Punish drunkards, people who drink and drive. They're murderers, man. Whoever drinks and drives, he's a murderer, punishes them, ten years takes their driver's license, 500 thousand kunas of fines. Let them run out of houses, I'm serious. Whoever drinks and drives, so you go directly to kill people, and then, let's see if we can make a better law so that we don't bring doctors into an awkward situation, very awkward and inhumane with this new solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114222	Thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114223	A respected colleague, Croatia, the Croatian Medical Chamber has announced that if parliament votes on Friday, it will request a review of the constitutionality of the law at the Constitutional Court. What do you think, isn't it devastating that we're passing another law that's not in line with the profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114224	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114225	Thank you, Vice President HS. You know what I'm going to tell you. I have nightmares from HDZ and the SDP Constitutional Court. So, when you tell me that it's going to go to a constitutional assessment, I'd drink something else right now, and maybe something other than water, so I'd take public transport, so here I think I've said it all, but what's good is that we here in democracy as it is, that we fight and use all the legitimate, legitimate, legitimate, legitimate ways, to suggest that something can be much better. Indeed, what I read, this second part of the exposé, because this first part, they felt my emotions and my way of thinking, really doctors say they're not feeling well and they're going to get away from primary health care, and we need that, and we need that as a basis. I have a doctor in my family, so we know how much they say, so that's your foundation, so family medicine, that's the foundation of everything, and we're going to have people running away from it and for the sake of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114226	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114227	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague, in your debate you are eager to advocate the right to the profession, the expertise of the doctor of family medicine and everyone else, and I agree with you in that part. But I'm asking you, how did you not listen to all these same doctors recently who advised that in order to protect health and life, citizens should be vaccinated? At that time, their profession was not sacred to you. You are calling for them to have a very good right to protect the privacy and confidential relationship of a patient doctor, and I agree with that, and I expect it from my doctor. But unlike you, I have confidence in my doctor and all doctors that they will be able to assess when the patient's health is endangering, primarily his health and his life, and also his environment. I have confidence in doctors unlike all of you, this is just opposition. Revolt according to the law which [[Intruder: Thank you.]] brings HDZ. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114228	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114229	I always like to listen to you when you ask me a question because you're as emotional and hearty as I am and thank you for that. So I believe in democracy, I believe in the freedom of every man, I really do. On the other hand, you know that science was also very divided, I was talking here about Professor Ioannidis, an epidemiologist from Stanford who fought immediately against lockdown and who was saying that lockdown didn't contribute to anything. As we know that risk groups have been threatening, people over 60 years old and we've communicated it very clearly. As we know, for example. For me as an athlete who lives like that for 30 years, so there's no danger in this or some other story. But also, I think it's very important, colleagues, to talk, I think it's very important that we allow freedom and the right to think differently, and thank you for asking, it's been very good for me to answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114230	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114231	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Here's about a month ago at my place in... For 75 years, he took advantage of another driver and only because of his ability did there not occur a serious incident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that man went to the MUP alone, this older man, took his driver's license and said I'm no longer for driving. Unfortunately, there are very few of them, very few of them. Now I ask you, who should it be, who should just tell someone, listen, you can't drive a personal vehicle anymore? Who should say that if not family, or doctors, profession, someone has to. Is it a personal intrusion if someone tells someone you're simply not capable of it for their own reasons or does it need some kind of M.O.P. officer who's absolutely not qualified to do it? So, uh, I'm asking you, is that a personal intrusion if the doctor says you're not fit to drive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114232	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114233	Thank you, Vice President HS, for the opportunity to speak to my colleague, Shashin. Comrade Shashin, so we have medical work now. I'm 42 years old, I don't have a driver's license forever. So I'm going to check in on a regular basis, we're going to go to the system, so, of course, if you're going to work medicine, my old dad who's lost his driver's license because he went to check in and they told him, listen, it's not the best situation to drive, and he turned himself in just like this, he said well, so I don't drive anymore. So the system works on that. It is only here that you, therefore I have appealed to you as ruling and as ultimately those who are legislators. Right? Which you have the greatest weight to find a solution because it's your job, so to preserve here the profession of family medicine doctors because if people object and say it should be formulated differently, then there's probably truth in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114234	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114235	Thank you, dear colleague. So here we are in Croatia swearing to digitization, so let's say digitalization of agriculture, digitalization of the health system, the economy. We live in 2022, we have powerful computers, and today we're talking about some drugs that aren't like drivers. So we also have a system of unique drug release where anyone who gets some kind of drug that could endanger the safety of driving can blink there in the MUP or somewhere else, just maybe it should be remembered, maybe some people didn't remember because digitization is something not very close to them, but something that they think is weird. However, we are not talking about this law, nor are we talking about a golden mole that wilds on the roads, especially on HDZ's golden youth, dads and sons, and we have examples that have fulfilled the news columns about the rampage of some powerful men's children, and we don't see them here. They're relapsers who make big problems, not sanctioning them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114236	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114237	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Lenart. It's really a key question. So, the thing is very simple. If we have 95% of the problems that come from alcohol, and these examples there are probably few sniffing into the nostrils and the rest of the di already, perhaps even in the vessel, depends on what all these sons like to consume from drugs. So if we have examples of where alcohol and speed, so the first and second points are the biggest cause of the accident, so let's solve it. Come on, I mean, we solve three percent, and we don't solve 97%. I mean, it doesn't make sense to me, so I really appeal to the ruling that people who are drunk, who are doing drugs and driving cars, so they take away their driver's license for 10 years and punish them with about 500 thousand kuna fines. It is like this, it would be a great law, we would solve 90% of all accidents in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114238	Dear Representative Celic [[/Intruder Miletic: Bi, bi. When you fire a gun in your pocket to see how it hurts.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Miletic, in your very dramatic manner, not to say some worse word to an individual debate, you haven't spoken correctly enough. It's not just about family doctors. I'm a psychiatrist who deals with addiction issues, I should report every patient I have. So, there's a lot of problems, and what's good is that law enforcement won't be until the rule is passed, although it would be better if the rulebook already existed so that we know and see who it is. But I'm asking you not to use the term drunkard. I agree with you that there is a need to strongly sanction particularly those who are relapsing and who, in an alcoholic state, repeat serious traffic accidents. These are people with a problem of addiction and do not get them up to date, but they should be directed to treatment. So, ugly drug addict names, drunkards, and so it's not appropriate. I ask you to do it in your future performances and apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114240	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114241	Thank you, fellow Cellic, for the opportunity to point out that there is certainly no stigmatization at least with me since I am at the Center for Addiction in Rijeka with Dr. Hero and others before, at least a dozen years ago, participated in projects, which means prevention of addiction. And as a classroom for 16 years, so 14 years in high school, but also personally through the association, scouts and everything else we did. I've been very clear. I was talking about drivers, so people who, knowingly in their freedom, choose three proms and go driving. So it's a killer. You understand? So that's what I was talking about, where someone consciously does it and repeats it. And you know, unfortunately, the largest number of accidents happen in people who repeat these things. They get a ticket and they get back in the car and they drive. And that's what I was talking about. So I think that when a legislator fires in your pocket and puts you in a situation to keep you out of matter, then that changes the state of consciousness because obviously for a change of heart it takes a lot, much deeper into society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114242	The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I will speak on the trail of what fellow Miletic was saying and try to focus on driving prevention and under the influence of alcohol and drugs. I stress that the Committee on Legislatives, I believe, will be accepted, so Article 233 of paragraphs 4 and 5 does not enter into force until the date of entry into force of the Regulation. It's in transitional and final provisions. That rule should be made by the Ministry of Health, not by the Ministry of the Interior. And here it's very important, therefore, about temporary health conditions. Col. Mlinarić mentioned Croatian defenders, so there should also be aware of the fact that these are people who for many years mean there is no person who was in the camp without having some form of post-rheumatic stress disorder. If this person is permanently taking certain medicines and then the blood level is at a certain level there is no obstacle for this person to drive as if opiate addicts who are on substitution therapy if they take it permanently, if there are no side effects they can manage the vehicle for personal purposes but it must be precise with the rule. The current rulebook is completely unusable. And if the current rulebook were to be used, it would be a disaster, so it's because today, even during the debate, it's mentioned, let's say, in the case of the UK that has a diagnosis agency, no diagnosis should be excluded for driving for personal purposes. But if a new medicine is introduced, then this person should have regular examinations, see if there are side effects to a particular medicine. If all is well after three or six months depending on which diagnostic category the person may drive the vehicle for personal purposes. The issue of blood alcohol concentration is something that differs from country to country. There is a study published last year by the EU Commission on the impact of alcohol and drug driving, on legal frameworks, on driving technologies. A question of technology, for example. To determine the concentration of certain illegal psychoactive substances, we already have Malta law on responsible use of marijuana where you can use marijuana for personal purposes. Therefore, this will certainly happen in the EU area and these amendments to such legislation and should be taken into account. Research on the basis of research is important. So there is relevant data in the scientific publication that if the blood alcohol concentration is greater than 1.5 promila, the likelihood of fatal injury during the car accident compared to the person who does not drink is 200 times higher. So these are large numbers, there are certain objectives, one of the EU's objectives is to eliminate all fatalities and serious physical injuries due to alcoholised driving by 2050. It is, of course, an idea that needs to be pursued, but it needs to be used, and I absolutely agree. So for those relapsers, there should be heavy sanctions. At this point, we already have 8 EU countries that have regulated the situation that a person must have a blockade device. So, if she's driving a car and she's a relapser, she has to blow her own car, and if she's under the influence of alcohol, the car can't be regulated. That is why I asked, therefore, that there is one EC regulation that enters into force on 6 July and, certainly, further consideration should also be given to the possibility that in the recent amendments to the Road Safety Act, especially when it comes to people who drive a freight car or do not give God to the bus, therefore this should also be taken into account in further consideration. I work with people who have a problem of addiction mostly on illegal drugs and of course it's my duty to encourage a person in a way that she stays in the system, to be treated if there's a problem of alcohol addiction and addiction to illegal drugs and until the situation is stabilised, until abstinence is achieved, he can't drive, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114244	We've got a few replicas, the first one's respected... Councilwoman Nemet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114245	Thank you. Dear fellow Cellic, so continue on this last sentence of yours, you said that you have already forced your patients to report to the Ministry of the Interior, in some cases I am interested in whether it is a practice, whether it is done and whether and so far, if it has not been done, it has been subject to misapplication because if it is not, then this is the newspaper that all doctors are fighting against, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114246	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114247	Thank you. Dear fellow Nemet, of course that's what's been reported before. So even in the old law, the current applicable law has the duty of notifying, not only of family medicine doctors, of course there are many of them, and that they are often the last line or the first line, as you will, but if you introduce a cure, for example for the treatment of various mental disorders, you are obliged to warn a person, but also for diabetes, in an arrhythmia, that this can affect the psychomotor ability, to advise at first that person does not operate the vehicle for personal purposes, and then when he is stabilised, when you see that medicine is effective, there are no side effects, then that person can drive normally, but again, it must be stated in the rule. As far as it is, it's not an approximation of 5 days, 15 days, it has to be written, whether it's 3 months, 6 months or 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114248	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114249	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Cellic. You've explained all this greatly. Now it is finally clear that this will not apply these articles until a new regulation is adopted at the Ministry of Health by the profession. But I wanted to actually comment on something else. You mentioned car accidents and all that and should be pointed out and that for the first time the first time defined box of first aid is mandatory in the car and that for that one who has no consequences. You as a doctor, as well as I who is closer than the current section of specialization very well know how important it is, not only to know the first aid procedures but also to have what concrete help. Well, I also consider that, with everything that's good in this law, also a good step when we look at it from our professional profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114250	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114251	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the coat of honor. I couldn't agree more with you, and I think it would be a good idea if you'd just periodically check out what's in that first aid box, if it weren't for some sterile gauze that's 10 years old. Of course, then we must also consider that this increases certain costs, but the importance of education, the importance of education and the general population as to how to approach emergency situations, how to approach when an accident is happening is also something that needs to be done and what is the role of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114252	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114253	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here's a few claims I'll make for you, and you deny or agree. Here, your colleague says that this debate is actually an opposition revolt on the law passed by HDZ. I don't think that's true, it's not all about HDZ or SDP, so there have been very meaningful attempts to communicate and proposals that have unfortunately not been accepted. Second of all, do you agree that this is a poorly-communicated law on the outside? So now we're talking about a rule that, whether or not, it's going to define some states, etc., but it's not at all presented at all, and that's another, another thing, whether or not in that rule you're going to listen to the waist, so far you haven't listened to it. Do you have faith in the fact that the rulebook will clearly define health conditions, medicines, doses of medicines, etc. and do you agree with this monetary responsibility that will be charged by doctors, I don't think that's right what's proposed in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114254	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114255	Dear colleague Maric, you've asked a lot of questions, I don't know I want to have time for this minute to answer all the questions. I believe that during the debates and on parliamentary committees, there have been some shifts for the better. As far as I know, the representatives of the medical associations were also in the ministry yesterday and discussed the subject. I believe a lot of misunderstandings would be solved if we had a rule. I believe that the Ministry of Health will form a working group in which they will be experts in this area and will adopt a quality rule. If I didn't believe you wouldn't support this law. Of course, there are always certain dynamic discussions at the level of the opposition positions, but believe me, I recognize when something is constructive, when something is destructive, when something is politics, and when something is really for good. And of course the doctor's profession has the right to defend its positions. Personal responsibility is most important, and we as doctors do not run away from our responsibilities either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114256	Thank you. Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114257	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're a lawyer here, and you're a psychiatrist. You've probably met in your medical career and with the defense population, you know what I'm talking about and you know what the population is and you know PTSD and taking medicines and that. Why are we passing the law until we have a rule? Who guarantees us that in these rules that are likely to be strict and that doctors and you psychiatrists and doctors of general practice will have to report patients who are taking medicines for insurance houses that will be charged by doctors if they do not report. You know what kind of population it's working with, don't you fear that this population will increase the number of suicides in it if their driver's license is taken away and what they say is legless. Mass them and it's legless, literally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114258	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114259	Thank you. Well, dear fellow Mlinaric, of course, I work daily with the defence population, but I stress, therefore, it is not the same if someone drinks 10 years of medicine or is just being introduced to it. If it is just being introduced then it takes a certain time to see how a person reacts to this medicine, it will develop certain side effects. I think that should be regulated. I was with a colleague from Slovenia this weekend. For people who are addicted to opiates, this is the most difficult addiction, so this person who has a driver's license regardless of taking certain substitution therapy once a week has to give urine to drugs, to see that it is absorbed by illegal drugs. I think it's very, very restrictive, but I think if it's passed, then the law is passed first, and then sublegal acts are passed. I wish we had that rulebook, but I believe that the rulebook on European countries will be quality and we won't have that kind of situation where it's going to be. mass withdrawal of driving licences [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Among other things, the defense population. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114260	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114261	Thank you. Dear fellow Cellic, I think you're a relevant person to answer a question like this for me. So Article 30 allows vehicles on unclassified roads, which means that a person at 14 years of age can manage the city centre, one or more horses that have to cooperate or do not cooperate, and there is a very high probability of something happening. And on the other hand, on the road, a rider can't be a person under the age of 16 especially when he's got a therapeutic ride that I watch on my street every day where kids enjoy these horses and who move along the road and someone runs their horse. In this regard, they should pay the penalty or not be able to participate in the therapy that means a lot to them. I think these are two things that have been made by failure, recklessness or ignorance, but they're certainly in contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114262	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114263	Thank you. Dear colleague Lenart I come to you from the Dalmatian junk there is no horse like you in Moslavina and, as far as therapeutic riding is concerned, I agree with you. I must admit that I did not pay attention to that law, if it should be corrected I suggest you submit an amendment, I will support that amendment. So, therapeutic riding is very useful for children with developmental difficulties and if there is a possibility of improving this we still have time. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114264	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114265	Dear Doctors and colleagues, you've really pleasantly surprised me with your facilities around the rules, about it, because we don't know what the spectrum and temporarily those conditions of speculative and medicine are going to put on, but you've given one additional one, now another further explanation for the fact that specialists like you also play a very important role in that as a reasonable man and a doctor you'll know how to rank it, which means long-term treatment to what extent. However, what is the relationship between you and the family doctor who needs to commit to the MUP now? I know you're specialized, that they have to listen to you, but how to reconcile it all now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114266	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114267	Thank you. Dear fellow Sacic, I told him at first, solutions, legal solutions should be like that when we talk about addictive behaviors to get a person into the system and that it is a motivation to get his driver's license back, not to let him escape and give up his treatment because you have to report him. So not only must family doctor, I, as a specialist who works with this person, have to warn that person, of course, there's one category of addiction that's where the vast majority of us agree and there's no dispute, but also let's say what about the person who's diagnosed with depression, so you're introducing certain medicines I think you need to say that these medicines affect psychomotors, make a certain record, and then the family doctor doesn't need an extra one. And these special patterns are for those who are not in the public health system, but in the private system, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114268	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114269	Comrade Cellic, here I will agree with you that it may be the wrong order, that we should have had a rule earlier although the practice agrees that the rulebook is being passed later, but in this case we had to have it or at least some gauges of that rule, so maybe there would be no debate even though then we would all be doctors, probably everyone would understand, and in those diseases that will be provided for in that rule. But what it is, it's not, they didn't realize I think many colleagues, Art. The 7th of that famous article. The 37th is actually talking about the central health information system. That means, you correct me, that a doctor won't actually need to notify anyone anything but automatically the moment he writes the disease code to the police, information will be delivered that this man is not capable of driving a motor vehicle without a disease code, without knowing about the disease, am I right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114270	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114271	Thank you. Dear fellow Zekanovic, so I must warn the person that a particular medicine that I am introducing can affect psychomotor abilities and I must write down a note that I have educated this person, that I informed this person, and I still don't need to report to the police since we are in this central system CESIH will automatically be informed without seeing what diagnosis it is, so a police officer on the ground must not see, it is the protection of the data that the diagnosis is whether it's psychiatric or it's some other somatic diagnosis. This obligation to report to the police administration applies to those doctors who work in the private sector, who are not involved in this CESIH, meaning we who are within the public health system, who are within CESIH, we do not need to make any specific applications to the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114272	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114273	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MP, you have said a lot of procedural actions here as regards the implementation of this law, the adoption of a regulation, everything that should have actually followed before the adoption of this law, citizenship should have been clearly informed, as well as experts before it actually means to them, in which case it is a permanent state, in which cases it is a temporary situation, when it can actually be crossed from temporary, from a permanent state to a temporary state, because as with Croatian defenders, disabled and other persons who use certain therapy for psychophysical health is very difficult to say when a certain state is permanent, when it is temporary, it is something that requires certainly daily observation and daily information and education and experts and patients. Who's going to do all this work that you said here more clearly, but who's certainly not going to come to every patient and doctor?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114274	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114275	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I say the rules are adopted in principle 6 months after the law was passed, here it was transferred to 12 months, but what is even better in the transitional and final provisions until the rules are adopted there is no application of those paragraphs. Of course, you need to educate the public, believe me that we as doctors know what is permanent, which is temporary and that doctors will bring the word about it, so if someone has Alzheimer's dementia, it's a permanent condition, but if someone has some depression disorder, it can be a temporary condition, so it's not even a disputed permanent condition or if someone has had a stroke with serious motor consequences, but the problem has arisen around that temporary state, about the temporary health conditions and the way it should be reported, and I agree that it would be better if it was more clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114276	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Celić, you spoke well of all the moments passed by this law to prevent and prevent as little traffic accidents as possible with the fatal consequences of people who are addicted to drugs or alcohol or are under certain sedatives. Croatian defenders can also be tied to this in view of PTSD when they are being treated for a long time with certain sedatives, but also this law will, and the possibility that when introduced into the system of all doctors, we have experienced many times that those who possess weapons that the Arms Act also robs them of their weapons, but this is one rehabilitation in the nature of which they are engaged or are actually guards in hunting or are in the function of hunting associations. Therefore, we must really be bound by a regulation when applied regardless of road traffic or the Arms Act when a ban on driving or using weapons applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114278	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114279	Thank you. Dear counterpart Djakic, during the debate both during the first and second readings, raised many questions and concerns. I hope that a significant part of these concerns, I've had some personal problems, I say I work with a vulnerable population, I think that now some things have changed and the MUP can't pass the rule, but it has to bring the waist, let's believe that the waist will bring a quality rule, and until the rules are passed, there's no application of those items, and I think it might be kind of satisfactory at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114280	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. We're going to the next individual debate, and it's up to the distinguished representative Stipo Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114281	Thank you very much, Vice President, how nice it is to see you behind yourself, not Mr. Reiner. My colleagues and colleagues, this law goes deep into the privacy of every man, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, so according to that law, a doctor reports to the police who is a patient, who, where it will be recorded, means that every cop who has access to the terminal will know someone's diagnosis, then there is really a loss of trust between a doctor and a patient, but since a lot of colleagues will talk about others, I would switch to, I said today in a replica, to the most endangered, people who will feel this law on their skin, and these are certainly Croatian defenders who are tens of thousands of Croatian defenders suffering from PTSD and there is a big and legitimate fear that they will be struck by this law. For those who may need clarification post-rheumatic stress disorder PTS, a mental disorder that may occur after exposure to a traumatic event that in a person causes a feeling of fear, helplessness in horror. PTSD therapy is usually consisted of medicines for mood stabilizers and antipsychotics. Such treatment with medicines may be the basis for the doctors of family medicine that the Croatian defender has, and the same counsel patient at the medical examination or during treatment reports to the police just because he suspects temporary or permanent incompetence for the safe management of the motor vehicle. The patient’s defender will likely lose his driver’s license very quickly, creating a series of problems from everyday life, to the possibility of losing his job if the workplace is related to the driver’s license. The competent ministry did not adopt at all a rule that I have now said here and in the replica of my colleague Celic, which would indicate the conditions for which a doctor would have to report a patient, and the police administration to initiate a temporary or permanent ban on driving. It is not clear, therefore, what are the diseases, which are the conditions on which that time limit is imposed, as so many times so far, that the Parliament is deprived of the right to discuss and decide rather than the authority to resolve this to the ministry that will develop that phantom rule. Trust in the patient – the doctor is seriously impaired with these. I am rightly asking myself whether the defenders will avoid going to a doctor in the future, whether they will be forced to suppress certain symptoms in order to preserve their driver’s license. We have to ask ourselves justifiably whether the defenders of whom many hold on to thin straw medications in order to be able to live a normal life as much as the same therapy will stop taking to preserve their driver’s license. That's what I was saying in the replicas that I'm afraid it'll increase the number of suicides. Will they have to choose between life and driver's license? When Croatia was to be defended, they didn't think for a moment, but it seems that by passing this law they will finally have to admit defeat from their own state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114282	Thank you. You have a few replicas. First fellow Sacic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114283	Dear colleague and distinguished representative Mlinarić, and you yourself were the victim of severe abuse during the Homeland War, and surely many friends and colleagues have called and asked as much as I do what you allow, what happens, are we going to be discriminated against in Croatian society five times now because we have defended the Homeland, we are sick. And now listening to the presentation of our esteemed colleague, Agent Cellic and the doctor, a little cheered up in that part. So there's a possibility that our friends, our war fighters and the civilian victims of the war that we understand each other have the same PTSD, that they will not be left to a family doctor alone. Of course, all of this needs to be done, we are against it rather than having to involve a psychiatrist in this normative solution for such cases anyway. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114284	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114285	Thank you very much, fellow Sacic, my friend Sacic. First of all, to cheer you up, Major Medic was arrested today in Tovarnik at the border that questioned us at the camp, which is why many defenders are taking the pills you said and who are likely to lose their driver's license under this law, and he's interrogating me and he's here. And here he fell at the border, I found out before the press published. What about what you asked me about the law? Well, of course, specialists should be particularly careful with Croatian defenders. These are people in the 1950 ’ s, in the 1960 ’ s, some of whom are still parents who take care of their parents as well. Some have smaller children or grandchildren already. Therefore, they need a car. If you take his car, you take everything from him, that's all he's got left. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114286	Thank you. The next replica of her colleague, Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114287	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So we're talking about three percent of those who cause accidents on Croatian roads. These are due to health, and now because of these three percent we are jeopardizing 30% of people who have driver's license, and among them, as you say, are already a large population of Croatian defenders. Do you really think it is appropriate to correct this injustice that can be done to them through the implementing rules? So, I want to show you the absurdity that the law already assumes something, raises people's confidence in the law and the good intentions of the legislator. So, what's your comment on that. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114288	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114289	Thank you very much, colleague. You're right when you said that three percent of all traffic accidents are caused by drugs or pills that people drink. 97% is the cause of alcohol, because here's what my colleague used to say before me, I sign it. It's a cell phone. It's caused by a car ride. It's a road rage. I am also in all my exhibitions only bringing, I fear and doubt the well-meaning of an official in the ministry who will do this rule that he will have on his mind a group that is most vulnerable to this law, which are Croatian defenders. I think he's going to do it on the record, prescribe, and now that tens of thousands of people are going to lose their driver's license because general practice doctors are going to be afraid of the insurance companies that they're going to be charged if they don't report them, I'm afraid they're going to be in big trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114290	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114291	Now, my friend Djakic, who finds you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114292	Thank you very much, Vice President. My friend Milinerevich, we have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114293	Milnar, remember your last name more, mother dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114294	I'll have a mill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114295	And that's your friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114296	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114297	Okay, forgive the lapus, and I wanted to tell you the following that when we pass the law then we need to know what older coke or egg is, so by passing the law, we're allowing to make a rule that will define and that will prevent doctors and police officers from abuse what's under the code so that they don't exactly make it impossible for our defenders, but also for other citizens to have a car and drive, as well as to hold and carry weapons. I think it's a good way and it's the right sequence to come. CIZIF has today made it possible for all those in the system other than the private practice that will now be and will be required by this law to do so and so far the defenders have been in a system that has severe personality disorders, which have severe motor disorders due to stroke, they are now in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114298	Thank you, thank you. Replication response. A colleague, Djakic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114299	Yes, my colleague Djakic understands you and I know what you're saying about the codes under which PTSD or any other disease that leads to the defenders, but it's not just the defenders, I was saying that here all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are in trouble, because they won't be kept a doctor's secret. You come from Virovitica, now take someone to get a sexual illness that you have and that the medicine that you need to drink to cure that sexual illness is visible, to slow down driving and to be recorded and that the entire Virovitica knows within two days that you have a sexual disease, you know that it's a small environment, if a police officer sees in a system that makes you not to drive a license, will say one Djakic has a sexual disease who knows where he's caught it. So, I think I was talking about cases like that, maybe they're extreme, but they can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114300	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms, Bujevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114301	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I thought I wouldn't, but after all, 238, after all this day, where you're from now on making this claim that you just said. A fellow cellic who knows this system very well, doctors who know CEZIH, well, the police who know how it works so 100 times today have already been told here that the code, will not see the code of sexual disease in Virovitica, but only that Djakić is temporarily taken from the driver for 14 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114302	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114303	Ma'am, that's what you said about masks, so you weren't exactly... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114304	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, please, please, just a moment, please. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, I must give a warning to you because you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you have abused him and replicated him. Let's move on with the debates, another violation of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Pavić, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114305	Dear Vice President, The coat of arms of Bujevic goes wrong. This would be true if the information of the health system were made by informers, however, since different florists... They even have a bouquet of flowers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114306	And you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you didn't call on the article, you abused the Rules of Procedure's injury through the replica, so I have to give you a heads-up. Let's move on with individual debates, colleague Zekanovic is next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114307	Dear vice presidents, respected promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, apparently some have been sitting on their ears. The laws should be criticised, so it is a logical opportunity and a budget for people to criticise why a kindergarten is being built in Bratishkovci, not in Vodice, for example, it is logical. However, there is one bill, and I feel that many have not read it. So one thing is very simple, there's a system called CEZIH, here's a fellow cellic has just educated us, and at some point if someone comes in with some serious, serious illness in the doctor, and he's in this CESI he'll automatically tell the police that man can't drive a motor vehicle without a code, he's simply coming up with information that at 2, 3, 5, 6 months he can't drive a motor vehicle, amen, garden. What's the problem, is this all supposed to be just a play? The other thing, the very important thing, is that at the beginning, in the replica of the respected secretary of state, I said it, and you all heard it. About 30 years ago. I had a close person coming back from the field, she was pushing a phrase in front of her, one of my strangers was driving a car along the road and there was a mild bandage, she was reportedly an epileptic attack that wasn't recorded, the epilepsy wasn't recorded, the close person was completely taken away from me, 10.g. She was dying in the most difficult troubles because some doctor didn't bring in what he had to bring in, and he didn't send in CESI and then when I said in that replica shame on you, you were really embarrassed, and the funniest of all was when these colleagues came to me, those equities, those who talk about Bill Gates all day, Bill Gates haunts us, so to see this doctor who called me Marina Miletic, man, so here's his degree please light her up, throw her in the trash, never do anything with that diploma again, so you are normal, and some doctors called Marina Miletic, we're an absurd country, so that's not for a veterinarian. Floscule on the fact that defenders will be deprived of these permits are lies, lies to my people. Diabetes is mentioned, so who mentioned it anywhere? However, if someone has epilepsy and has seizures more often, it must be recorded and the accident of the respected colleague Maric may occur from the temporary and permanent inability to drive a motor vehicle and that is what you have just denied both temporary and permanent and is most important. And let's just make it 0.02 or 0.2% listen on the radio today, forget how much the drug accident caused. There's only one in 10 years, but we're gonna have to protect a man once. I watched a man die because the system failed me a close person I haven't finished. I've got another minute and 15. [[Intruder Voter: Are you finished or continue?]] So, please listen in the future, read the laws before the debate. [[Attack Voter: A dramatic pause, proceed well.]] And I ask all those doctors who will be in a situation tomorrow or feel the need to call Marin Miletic, don't people do it please! Don't! For his patients and for these professors who taught you in college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114308	Okay, now you're done with the replicas. Oh, no, first we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Sacic. ... Yeah, you're consciously going to get a warning. [[You can't hear me.]] What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114309	238. But I think you should have reacted, too. The respected colleague of Hrvoje has indeed collapsed in an unsuitable brutally rude manner in fellow Miletic. That's not necessary. You could've circled it nicely, and it's really not right to insult him like this, and I think the chairman would have to react, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114310	I'm not going to give you a heads-up, because you've actually touched what's the point of hurting the Rules of Procedure where you think I should have reacted. I don't think so. I mean, we've got a lot of open debates here in Parliament, we've got a lot of crashes, crashes, while it's within the limits of normal communication with other agents, I think it's okay. I didn't estimate the border was crossed, so we can move on with the replicas. My colleague Pavić's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114311	Your Honor, you're here trying to defend something only experts can defend. Given that you are referring to some facts relating to the information system, since you are talking about some kind of communication between the two information systems. I'll just remind you that today's health information system is not communicating with each other. So hospitals don't communicate with hospitals, hospitals don't communicate with all labs. Therefore, these communications are not available and there is no such communication. In addition, please do not be sure that the data will be properly recorded, that it will be properly exchanged since we know what happened to the system when we were supposed to apply for vaccination when several tens of thousands of people reported for vaccination were missing. So I don't know what's going to happen after that and what's going to be hit by the MAP. The question of whether it's going to be a code of disease, whether it's just gonna be information that it's banned or it's going to be something else. We don't know that because it's not defined in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114312	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114313	Dear colleague Pavic, thank you for your replica. There's fear of course. And neither am I sure nor know how this system works. According to what the secretary of state told me from this pay phone and in a private conversation, I think it should work, but we're here to warn about the shortcomings. So the way I got the information it should look pretty ideal. If there's gonna be a leak, I hope it doesn't, I hope it doesn't. What's said is let's believe, but let's be there and correct that a police officer, or that no one will know the diagnosis except the doctor himself, and that the police with the Constitution will only receive notice of the temporary inability to drive a motor vehicle. I'm not sure how this system works, I'm not an informer, but here's a thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114314	Next replica, colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114315	Thank you very much. You're not an informer, you're not a doctor, I respect your profession. You obviously don't respect my profession. The first thing is amazing how much you defend what is not defensive and what they criticise regardless of the party's membership of 2500 doctors of family medicine, the additional thousands of doctors not that all of this law will apply to us. So hospital and medicine in private practice, etc. So we're all going to get caught up in this law. And you can't say that we didn't read the law. And then what are we? So, if the waist tells you, if you have the colleges that are a profession, the medical profession from the ruling option says you're going to need to define the states, that you're going to need to adopt a rulebook, that in fact, this form of law that's proposed is not good, so where did you get the idea that we haven't read the law? Where did you get that? And besides, I didn't say that a temporary or permanent condition couldn't make an accident. You don't tell the difference. which is premature, which is permanent. [[/Intruder Voter: Thank you. Thank you, colleague Maric.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114316	Thank you, colleague Maric. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114317	My dear colleague, you said you couldn't, to defend something indefensible, but you didn't say what was indefensible? You didn't say the metrics because you don't have the metrics. Well, those articles are in the old bill. Hello! And in the old bill of law, here it is, I'll give it to you. These articles are also in the old bill. Almost nothing has changed except the introduction of CESIH. So what's wrong with you? So, two and a half thousand doctors, so maybe you manipulated them, maybe you were manipulated. We had a situation a few months ago in the square here in Zagreb brought together several tens of thousands of people and they were protesting no crown. So people can be manipulated, but they don't tell me what the problem is. I'll agree with you on the rules. The rulebook might have been in this case first because we had to, I don't know, here's the secretary of state air-conditioned. Maybe he could. We could have had some gauge rules. And that's the one problem I see here that's real, and this whole other thing is kind of a fictitious rotten grandmother flax to pass her day. No problem real.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114318	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First colleague Antoliæ Vupra. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114319	238th indent 5th reprimanding, specifically Andreja Marić. She herself stated that she had been told that she had not read the law. I think it's a misdemeanor not because of reading, but because it's the very expert in this area and if someone can talk firsthand about road safety issues from the doctor's point of view, then it's certainly her as a diabetic. So even if it wasn't That's what I think. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] No, and therefore they deserve a warning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114320	Comrade Vupora, I must give you a warning because you have injured an officer. 2. That is, you have misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure in order to in some way replicate your colleagues to Zekanovic, expressed their disagreement with his assessment of how many MPs prepare for the debate or not. Let's move on, next injure of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114321	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. 238, still persistently demeaning and insulting. I mean, don't put things like that out there without someone reading the law. That's the first thing. Secondly, it stands clear to you, open up, please, page 11 Art. 37, so it refers to the new chapter 4, health status for the longest six months, so that's new to you. It's not in the existing one. Law That's new. [[Intruder: Please, colleague Zekanovic.]] It's not in the existing law. So you're twisting the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114322	Thank you. Comrade Maric, thank you. I must warn you, too, because you have entered into an argument with a colleague, Zekanovic, and have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's why it's a warning. Let's go to the replicas. A colleague of Lenart, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114323	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, I know that by your education you are an expert in these equidistant spaces and since you have recently experienced enlightenment, do you think that then we who are not vaccinated should also be sanctioned under the road law so take our driving licenses because obviously we are some kind of danger in that traffic, and do you think that all those who have made pensions because of PTSD and use therapy should also be left without driving licences because they also threaten traffic in some way, and even some of them have weapons and members of hunting associations and hunting societies. So a lot of things we have here that we can discuss, so here, I also think we should take the driver's license to us who haven't been vaccinated. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114324	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114325	So, my son, what are you doing here? I don't know where he'd go. Maybe you'll plant a cabbage. You plant cabbage and that, you'll be good there. [[/Intruder: Saditi?]] I just need to refer here a little bit to what I did before. If a medical examination during the course of treatment determines that the driver is suffering from a disease or has a disability for which he is no longer able to manage the vehicle safely, the doctor who has performed the examination or... the driver and the selected doctor, blah, blah, blah, is required with a warning.../incomprehensible/... with a warning to the patient to inform the police administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Old law, people, old law. So let's not, it's just that these famous six months have changed and then the whole story is about nothing. ... Well, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, buddy, I don't see where that base is. [[Intruder: Please.]] So it's extremely, extremely simple. [[Please, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114326	Thank you. Are you done? We're playing a pantomime. A fellow Lenart, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114327	So art. 238, insulting the MPs. My colleague Zekanovic, planting cabbage is an honorable job and I'm very professional at it and I have excellent contributions to cabbage and I can teach you that at least you know how to do things in life other than smart. And I think your underestimation of those who plant cabbage has gone too far and wonder what you're saying because if you'd ever invested your kuna and created a new product, then you'd know it's not for insulting people who plant cabbage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114328	I insulted the cabbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114329	Please, colleague Zekanovic, I now give you a warning because you are constantly in the word of others until I have given you my word, you are already doing it the third time in a row, you have a warning. Now, that's your third. .../ There you go. /... So you're losing the right word. ... Comrade Lenart, you, I support your agricultural ventures, so you don't think I have anything against it, but you've actually abused the Rules of Procedure, too, to replicate my colleagues to Zekanovic, so I'm telling you the same thing. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Col. Mlinarić, a replica to the presentation of his colleague Zekanovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114330	So now he can't answer me? Now I'm gonna have to insult him for real. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's nothing. As my colleague Zekanovic told you, you are not an informer, you are not a doctor, but you are neither a defender, and you could have been that and then don't say that someone is talking about PTSD so that, for defenders who have PTSD, they can have problems. Here, Djakic knows very well in 2000 when Pancic was the same problem with driving licenses, so it was by threatening to go out on the street to not implement the law that it was. So I'm not saying it by heart, I'm warning on time as I warned the civilian victims of the war, you'll see soon when the report comes I was right, wasn't I right, only then you were talking the same as me, today you're talking the opposite, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114331	I'm guilty of not leaving high school and going to defend the state. I'm guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114332	... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This one. Comrade Zekanovic, let's go. This, respected representative, Josip Boric, will be next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114333	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to tell you something about this final bill of amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act because I think that each of us has something to say and that this assembly in history has passed a number of debates on this particular law, I remember some that were also fatal in some moments, there in 2008, '09, '10, when we talked about whether we should drive with 0.5 proms or drive with 0 proms, drive with more or less and everyone found some reason then to determine that in the right, every MP, I remember. We eventually voted to make it 0.5, so it took a while, so we took it off, so it changed a little bit, so it was 0.0 for young drivers, professionals, and 0.5 for everyone, so we took it off, one of the few countries that has such a guarantee means alcohol in the blood. When we look at the number of deaths, which is some perception of road safety, the number of violations, the number of punishments, I think when we do it in 30 years back, I don't want to say that there was no government that didn't commit or worry about this problem. '94. 878 dead, 2000. 655, 2009. 548, 2010. 426, I'm going to be in the last three years, 2019. 297 and 237 in the first year of the 2020 and 2021 pandemic increase to 292. Let's look at this relationship, we say, no one's done anything. Surely the construction of highways has contributed to a large part, meaning especially in the part of security that we can drive faster, safer, and that it costs something. That's why I'm a little disappointed in this debate. We found again two groups of people who are in this law to argue with, these are our doctors, our doctors of general medicine, specialists, on the other hand police who need to enforce the law and take care of road safety. Let's fight them and remove everyone's responsibility, i.e. We don't pass this law, let's do it to prove that we care about road safety. That's what we've been hearing since the opposition today all morning. We're the ones who remember, I remember. Dark-Taritash, she couldn't live in Zagreb from a new generation of electric vehicles, they kept in the way of when and when we will and when. Here, there they are, we're trying as much as we can, as some countries already have, not everyone, but we're trying. Will it be perfect? I don't know. I am looking at them now, the same ones that are normable in Germany or another EU country, with us not being normized and seeing both children and 10 or less years of age who drive such romobiles, we see even older ones, we see everything. What's that changing by coming to the Republic of Croatia? Obviously we feel there's a certain freedom here where we can use it. We're saying now we're going to limit it a little bit. Let's put a little bit of security on your head, so let's put it in traffic in municipalities, towns where there are no pedestrian zones or where there are no promenades, so let's drive to that part of the stake where we're at the end or so on. So we're trying. We didn't say register, and that's my basic problem here, here's me. How are we going to determine on the road as much as anyone has a strong electric rhombus and what speed it achieves to endanger safety, but at any moment on the road, he's already a road participant and I respect that, it's worth it and we've accepted it here. And then we said that doctors are no longer allowed to do anything, the opposition says what we should be responsible for any head that will do something in traffic tomorrow, and by chance our patient who has something in him, and he shouldn't have something in him, so he should go to traffic and do something about it, and until what happened to us happens to us, I don't know, in some car accident when someone walks into our payhouse at 100 miles an hour or something else, we're all worried. The government must leave, and the transport minister, the interior minister, will automatically resign. That's how he behaves. Is this law, i.e. These changes and they add a step forward to solve some of the doubts that exist to us? I think so. They've just been asked by those who don't support him and bitterly defend the conflict of doctors they've probably invented, I haven't seen, there are certain thoughts in public space that we can hear of going to that there might be something that... But we said let's go, what we heard today, a year to see what's going to happen to that rule, which he's going to prescribe, so we're all working together to be as good as possible, but we don't have to throw away the responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who should evaluate a man like that to whom we give a particular drug or anything other than a doctor? Who's supposed to do that? The opposition? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114334	Thank you. We have no, more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114335	Somehow it seems to me that in this debate, dear fellow Boric, we have turned more to our own opinions and impressions of the state and security of roads than we have tried to stick to what our task should be as parliamentary representatives, which is a fact that would then create a whole truth about traffic safety in the Republic of Croatia and, on the basis of which we could, at the very end of the line, pass a quality law. Well, I'm curious, since we've been discussing the impact of medicines on the ability to drive and who should make such decisions, what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia, do you know about the familiarity of patients with the influence of medicines on their traffic capacity and their information by professionals who should share such information with them? Do you happen to have that kind of information?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114336	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114337	Thank you very much. We've heard some data today that should have served the purpose of the opposition to say that this is wrong so all of a sudden 0 point of something is caused by some kind of doctor's concern, so what you're putting in there when it's going to work anyway, i.e. We immediately said that everyone in the traffic today was found without a seat belt being punished. Did we find that out? Of course not. That a lot starts from ourselves. But surely a great role in this which has already been defined is now a little bit more elaborated in a different way by doctors of general medicine. Who else would that be? With our specialist doctors. If someone's going to convince us that someone with a problem with their foot, if it's a physicist that doesn't determine and says, there's supposed to be that he can still drive a car like that, then tomorrow we're going to have a problem. Are we dealing with this through this Law? I mean closer, 100% sure as hell won't be solved because there's a personal responsibility for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114338	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114339	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Boric. Well, I would look back on the Croatian defenders, as we hear here, it is said that this particular population could be affected most by these amendments to this law. I really don't understand, and I can't just believe that any family doctor would report a patient he's been following for many years, knows his diagnosis, all together, developed a certain trust with him because it's precisely our defenders with these family doctors who are present often, etc. And that any doctor would report to a defense attorney or a man if there were no real reasons that this man could no longer drive a personal vehicle. If they exist, it's in the interest of both this man and the wider community and everyone. But if there isn't, I really don't see him doing it to anyone. That's why these kind of, uh, prejudicials are kind of me, etc. I don't think that's founded, and it's not good to create one confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114340	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114341	Thank you, dear colleague Shashin. So I'm saying that at some small colleges in these strangers today, it's been thought about how to attack this law, use all the groups in society, confront the doctors and the police or the ministry, the government, which we already need to show that we care about traffic safety. And that's what you suggested going all wrong. If we were, we'd do it, and everything would be great without any other suggestion than postpone, cancel, switch I don't know where or don't write anything. And that's how we'll worry. And this defender of ours, whom we have great respect for, is how this government has worked in two terms to ensure their status and extra. It's an important part of the part where we talk about traffic safety. And it may happen to him, not from himself, but from someone else. So we're always here with someone in traffic, maybe something that he doesn't expect to happen without being wrong. But there's a system of prevention, it's got to work it out. Someone has to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114342	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114343	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, this law is original in 2008 and then another ten times something has been changed. Always the goal was, in fact, to further improve road safety. You, well said about the number of deaths, but you may have forgotten to mention another very important segment in that, and these are all seriously injured by disability, people from car accidents. These are the ones we need to take care of to protect them, and that's how I think we should look at this law. This is not a health system law, this is a police law that really wants to contribute to the fact that road safety is much higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114344	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114345	Thank you very much. That's why I'm telling my colleagues today, listening to an ordered story that was supposed to happen with a few groups, means fighting those basic holders of responsibility to create perception of what's going to happen. Every MP had a perception in his conversation about what would happen at that moment, even though he did not know what would happen. Like every day when we're sitting behind a car we don't know what's waiting for us at the end of our trip. And that's why a system that must at least prevent a certain level of responsibility if they don't understand it and if, as they say, they're progressive, progressive, so you're fighting for the better. You fight in a way that you don't need anything, but you're gonna talk about it every day in the assembly. Get those romobiles, get those electric romobiles out of here. It's a bit of a traffic problem for us already. When we solve this, we don't need it. We don't need it. We'll vote against it. That's the difference between us who have a certain responsibility for the citizens and them who have no responsibility at all. That's what we need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114346	Thank you. Dear Representative Voter, Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114347	Col. Borić, if we are based on the National Road Safety Plan, which is valid until 2030, the goal is to reduce the number of victims on Croatian roads by 50%, and if we know that the main causes of accidents and injuries are, above all, the speed, after which alcohol, get drunk and the third cell phone, then I do not see in this law the right mechanisms in which to reach this reduction goal. Secondly, no one argues with the Ministry of Internal Affairs with doctors, primarily family medicine doctors, but rather the law irritated people who were supposed to participate in its creation in a way that completely ignored them and thus irritated them. So the only one responsible for what today's debate is 70% about the rights of family doctors and what else you want to place on their backs is you, you're not looking for an excuse in someone else. You caused these.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114348	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114349	Thank you very much. We didn't cause anything, we offer solutions. You say they're not good, because we've overloaded the doctors of general medicine and even cited some kind of responsibility they haven't had so far. Okay. It's your right, it'll show experience for a year of application and a new sublegal act whether it's gonna be like that or something else. Mostly looking back these few years was never what you said, never in any other problem, not just in this, but in anything. So you're coming here to take down something just to make it look like you're taking care of some group now. Well, we all have some general medicine doctor or our family doctor because you're behind the fact that everyone's on that line that you're talking about. I don't think so. Now that's the reason for some other kind of debate, but we argue, we're trying to take a step forward. We expect support here from those who were the loudest. No backup, we're all against it. All right, we're in politics. Let's leave traffic safety, let the police do it. We accept it that way, but I say in time you'll know who did what.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114350	Thank you. Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114351	Dear counterpart Boris, in the opening of your debate, you pointed out that someone is trying very hard today to argue about this law, so doctors and police. Have we heard from one of them to mention the rule book? So, what we're going to bring, what's prescribed in this law, is that exactly the waist will adopt a rule not by the police, nor by us here on the basis of which that law will then apply. Therefore, it is one way to divide the Croatian public, to turn the medical profession into law, and in fact the important fact is that the profession through this law is the most respected in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114352	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114353	Thank you. I agree with everything you've said to your colleague, Klaric. We also had a discussion here about the Arms Act, if you remember. And the same story was in the same way or the same way. There are all kinds of situations in the implementation. We can't say that the law strictly respects what percent of every moment, I don't know of any hunter or man who carries a weapon. As we can't even say what I already said, today everyone who got into traffic and didn't respect every sign and was all tied up. He's got all kinds of situations. Something's starting... but create a prevention system in which someone will write something, and yet they invent that they will all see, everyone will see, the whole of Croatia will see what it says to someone why they can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, no? It's not true and willfully they lie and deliberately lie here all day and night, so they'll turn out important and turn out to be good to those they're talking to. They're like doctors or general medicine or family doctors. Now we're your defenders, now you're the target we're talking to, we're for you. They don't care what happens next, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114354	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114355	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, I was expecting today after this amendment has been presented by the Legislative Committee in fact that all dilemmas have been resolved but are obviously not. Obviously, this was a pre-prepared performance that has now fallen somehow into the water because of this amendment. What I don't understand is the impression that what the opposition is doing is actually doing is just against the fact that there are no other arguments. And what is particularly interesting to me is that a certain part of the opposition that has recently been the most severe pandemic here says against vaccination in some way was against the profession, so against the doctor here today very loudly defends under quotes this particular profession, precisely those doctors. So, another demonstration of hypocrisy, that it's actually all about just collecting political points and only when depending on the situation it suits some.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114356	Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure raised by a respected representative, Pavić. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114357	The President-in-Office of Article 238 provides false assumptions. We're not even talking about the doctor's responsibility here. We're here talking about trying to introduce an expert system, meaning a system that will make decisions based on some information and then send information to the MUP, and it's not really a piece of the catch, it's not really a children's game. So we need to know what we're talking about, we need to know what we're going to vote on later, and we need to know what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114358	So it was a typical replica, so you get a warning. That's your second already. Take care of that, please. A reply to the replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114359	Thank you very much. Comrade Habib, today we have two free speeches that have been delivered by MPs from the opposition and attacked themselves that they are bad, that they are a disaster, that grief is huge and that they want to rule the state tomorrow if you have listened to them two. And how their work in the Parliament is meaningless, that nothing is worth anything, etc. etc. They did it on this law. They're for everyone, but just not for what looks as logical as normal, trying to make a step, etc. And that bothers them. How's that going? It passes the election as always, so this law-making story will go into effect, i.e. the adoption of a sublegal act which will then solve certain misunderstandings that appeared to them today in their perceptions that they had already given themselves and had already seen so many traffic accidents that no one had affected the cocoa they needed, as they wanted it to be. Of course, and who's to blame? It's the government's fault, never them because there they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114360	Thank you. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Erik Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114361	Dear Vice President, respected by the proposing representative, colleagues and colleagues. Many today are in the debate first and foremost, so Article 37, in particular paragraph 4, which is related to the temporary de facto withdrawal of the driver's license under certain circumstances, alleged temporary inability to drive. We're referring to a lot of things, but there's really no reason for that. And what is foreseen by the amendment of the parent committee where this is decided to supplement the article in a way that will subsequently be adopted by the Regulation is, in my opinion, the preservation of the character and the actions and roles of the proposings and perhaps the satisfaction of some of the people who are also representatives who are against such provisions. Turns out what you would say is that the wolf stays full and the sheep is whole. And that's the main message through that rulebook. However, the rule of who adopts and the law is not passed by the Parliament. Who's gonna bring that rulebook? Some kind of waist? What waist? What waist? That's a big problem. When mentioned, therefore, the regulation on the basis of some European acquis. There is no European acquis nor will there ever be which will deal with the withdrawal of the driver's license in this way as provided for by this law. I will only give one other example, which means that as a full member of the EU, the Croatian state must build a law in its legislation, i.e. a list of all physical damages and occupational diseases. What's gonna be on that list? What percentages will be the remaining working capacity, or the degree of disability of the EU does not decide, but we have to have a law on this. The European acquis does not propose a regulation, but we cannot transfer all hot potatoes to the rules that will someday be passed, and most likely will not be passed because there is hardly any basis for it because that is the case. I will propose, by my amendment, that Articles 4 and 5 be deleted, which would like to add an old article, hence the applicable rules of Article 233 because this is real and possible, because the latter is not even feasible. When we mention that we have something similar in the EU countries in 11, 11 countries, it is therefore less than half of the full members of EU countries. When Italy is mentioned, don't mention Italy anymore because I know Italian. So they have the Road Safety Act. In Article 119(2), point 2 is replaced by the following: You know who has the right to temporarily withdraw a driver's license from a diabetic? Not a doctor of general medicine but a diabetic, so we would have a specialist who deals with diabetes as a disease that has a variety of forms. So, but now we move on to something easier than diabetes, you have contraindications in every drug or whatever we want to call them, and they warn you that if you're taking this medicine so it's not good to drive, and that drinking beer is also not a good idea to drive or one to, maybe three not. But if we give these powers to doctors of general medicine or family medicine, why not give it to the innkeeper? Now I'm gonna make a little fun of it, and why don't we give it to the vet? What's gonna happen? Because some medications are also beneficial to humans and animals, especially some tranquilizers, so then I'm gonna shut up my doctor's problem, I'm gonna look for a tranquilizer for my dog. The vet, and I'm gonna buy that same drug in private. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114362	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114363	I am reading right now with Aspirina, and it is also recommended to refrain from driving related to how much medicines affect driving. The second thing I really wanted to ask you is how you look, and you yourself mentioned the logic of the adoption of sublegal acts, so after the law, they passed the rules of the ministry of ministers, so one or one group of people, not HS. I don't understand how you're actually looking at this situation where, after such a debateable law after that, there's going to be an adjustment and a rule that's already unclear enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114364	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114365	So it's not technically technological since yesterday, so if there is a dispute within the parliament or if there is a dispute within the parliamentary majority then the law immediately predicts that something is determined by the rule, it is unfortunately Croatian practice. When I was talking about it, say, when I'm talking about the problem of diabetes and diabetes that takes it down in Italy, it's legal. Therefore, if there is a rulebook, that rule should be written by the waist, but should be voted in the assembly, not signed by one minister. Here's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114366	The esteemed representative of Nemeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114367	My question to my colleague Fabian is, did you realize what a professional foothold this law is? If we know that he's in college with the Health Protection Act in one part, if we know that doctors are not involved in just passing this law but are just familiar with it, I honestly still haven't realized. So did you perhaps understand the foothold in the profession of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114368	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114369	So, before I was getting ready for this debate, I really talked to the profession and the representatives of the profession. When we talk about family doctors, they certainly weren't consulted, they weren't consulted, they weren't even in the working group, I don't know about others, and the fact is that this novel, for this second one we had the debate law we have to improve, etc., but what we want to add to the jurisdiction of family doctors in the temporary a word of inability to drive is literally a theater of absurds that doesn't go to the benefit not only of doctors, it doesn't go to the benefit of the citizens, I said that this regulation will play out, and among other things, he's calling for something that's the greatest theater of absurdity, which is referring to P.Z.E. So to bring our regulation into line with European legislation into something that has absolutely nothing to do with European legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114370	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114371	Before withdrawing the driving licence or the instructions on the use of the medicinal product which should lead to the temporary or permanent inability to drive and then of course withdrawing the authorisation, there is one other decision, or another jurisdiction, which is that the patient himself is familiar with the action of the medicinal product. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of speech today, so I'm wondering what you think is the responsibility of meeting a patient with the consequences of the medicine he's using, a pharmacist taking this medicine, a family doctor, a specialist, a patient himself or someone else? And should someone handle sanctions because they did not properly inform the patient of possible side effects?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114372	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114373	So, first of all, when you go to at least the pharmacies I go to when I go to pick up a drug, then they warn you not only of the dose but of how they act and mostly of the pharmacists. That means that doctors do it because it's a question of delinthology and it's a question of the rules of the profession, and they don't do it at all, and I know they do it eventually, each of us needs, I mean, it's a day-to-day job, a day-to-day job. For what reason? Because it is known that many medicines have contraindications that are not only for driving but also for possibly some other medicines, especially if you are chronic patients. So that's what doctors do because it's in their rules of profession, just like pharmacists do. I don't see why I'd be authorized by doctors now to take away their driver's license. It's not their job either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114374	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114375	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague, I must once again refer to the word waist so often mentioned. And now the question is, who's the waist or what's the waist? That made-up or imaginary dr. A sleeve that has all the solutions out of its sleeve at the same time, and then that's what it's called to joke because every time we mention the waist, then we mention who told you, that's what he told you... So, I'm incredibly one, one fact, this law will certainly make general medicine doctors have an additional obligation, additional tasks that are not so small and which are not without consequences, which can be measured in different ways, but that no one thought to talk to them, to carry out certain consultations with them, and then, you know, there are some hypocritical answers and that's one of those who says he's a member and the commission when this law was, he was a representative of the health ministry, but the doctors of general medicine will do it, he'll have obligations without talking to them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114376	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114377	Now I don't know which Rukavin you were referring to, I know or knew the academic Rukavina, and he, as an exceptional expert in a particular medical field, would certainly not have dealt with a rule regarding a part of the profession he doesn't know, and where to leave it to family doctors, I don't know if my answer pleases you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114378	The following will be spoken by respected representative Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114379	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What our old man in the assembly would say is nothing new, just like all the legal proposals we talked about in these 2 years. In fact, we catch on to an article and then we want to share the Croatian public with it, Josip Boric was well-detected and it seems to me and listening yesterday, this morning in the network of the first here and the secretary of state was clearly pictured from what was being said here, here it is. I think that in the first place, safety in transport, who can contribute to traffic safety, so I would say, everyone who participates in this traffic, but I think that it should certainly be along with the Ministry of Health who can assess and can evaluate, can detect and eventually prevent certain actions that can happen without even being aware that they will happen. We want it by 2030. To reduce the number of people killed in traffic to 148, it is half as much as what we have right now, and I think it is the only topic and the only measure and I think the law is going in this direction to come to the goal of protecting Croatian citizens or participants in transport in the best possible way. There have been all kinds of discussions here, I'll let myself say firsthand if I've been sitting here all the time since this morning, so I've been listening to a lot of MPs who've been saying, there's all sorts of things, but the metrics in the end turn out to be that the opposition MPs get caught by one piece, for an article of law where no explicits say that doctors will take away a driver's license, they don't take away a driver's license at all, they just sort of prevent what can happen. You get stabbed by an wasp, right, when you come to a doctor and you have an allergic intruding, you get there, your doctor immediately warns you that it would not be good to drive your own car if you came to him if this medicine is sleeping with you, makes you less mobile, your motor skills are shrinking. So, I don't see any big, big problem here, even the more I come from a village without a driver's license, the one half of the village was left without driver's licenses, and where luck to go to a doctor would not be without a driver's license, the less I lost my driver's license if they had 1.5, 1.7, 1.8, that cost them 10 thousand kuna, which cost them six months of taking away a driver's license, and therefore there's no safety in the traffic without a citizen's initiative, that's what it is, and I as a citizen can warn the police that someone who sat with me at the table and drank it's too much to prevent him from sitting down for a driver and thus not managing a motor vehicle, so maybe that man makes a problem for himself and for himself. We have another problem in Croatia that needs urgent work. We've got too cheap alcohol, we've got alcohol at our disposal, you look at every bar you've got a party tag, this party, that alcohol below each level. All those who have had the opportunity to visit some of the European countries, which were in America, especially Australia, here in Australia is your alcohol up to half the night, and from half the night it's practically unreachable to you as much as it is, how expensive it is. So, we have much more room to improve traffic safety, but let's not the whole discussion of what came down to today in HS that doctors of general practice will have too much to do, that they will be the ones that will take away driver's licenses, that they will be the only culprits in society and that will come to an exodus, that, that, when I heard this morning the lady, I don't know what it's called on this show, that over 1,000 general practitioners will ask for this law to retire, I think it's really something that scared me as a man, I don't believe it, I't think it's going to happen, so this law is going to go towards traffic and that traffic security, especially on roads is much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114380	Thank you. We have replicas, the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114381	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. So here I will touch the news that this law brings, news in terms of respecting technological progress, mostly thinking about traffic-related personality where I think of segway, electric romobiles, electric monocycles to use automated cars, but also a new item that this law includes, and it concerns more traditional things, which means riders on horseback and this law will regulate something that will make it easier for us both in Slavonia, but also in Dalmatia and throughout Croatia to facilitate the maintenance of traditional manifestations, but also what has been touched today and the participation of, riders on horseback animals and in various sports manifestations, in a health character, but possibly thinking about the use of these horsemen and for safety purposes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114382	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114383	Thank you very much, dear fellow Simic. In the morning, in my replica, that's exactly what I asked Secretary of State Katic. So Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem is a lot of events in which horses are part of the whole traditional story, especially appropriate riding that takes place in the first and second months of each year, and this law regulates it. What is more important is that this regulates for the first time, we heard it from a colleague, Mate Frankovic, where in protected areas of cities such as Dubrovnik and other cities can be arranged, these legal changes can be held by a event that will be attended by just such groups of people under certain conditions. I came from the village to the city and be honest with me that traffic is dense, tram, then the rhombus came, you simply Ilica moving around you have to be careful that something doesn't hit you by the time you get here here to Mark's Square, and this law is important [[Intruder: Thank you.]] regulates some of these things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114384	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114385	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic, I am pleased to see what is now 3 and 45, so far we have spoken about this law exclusively regarding medical certificates and how it can be taken away from our citizens' licenses in the future. I'm glad that you've returned the debate to the very beginning, and we must commend that definitely ministry, though, to follow trends, something that we often hear here that we don't follow the laws of society. This law shows exactly the opposite. So we're introducing certain terms related to both electrical and automated vehicles. We didn't mention here for one second about the emergency services and the Red Cross and putting all this into the very changes and additions, this final bill. So I'm glad you're back to the very beginning of this debate. And it's good to mention at the end what you said the goal wasn't just Penalty [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and education... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114386	The honourable representative, the response of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114387	Thank you, colleague Bacic, it was, there was a speech and what you said yourself. We entered the 21st century, we entered some new, new spheres, automated vehicles as something new on the roads so far unseen. So cars that will practically run themselves without, without drivers is something that will only be in 5 or 10 years but the law already predicts these things. The law provides for many other changes. We've seen in statistics that almost 35% of the total fatalities are due to too much traffic. And over here, it decreases from 40 to 30 kilometers in settlements. We've seen punishments increase for those who commit such crimes. So I think the law is heading towards getting to this point, to this end of 148 fatalities. But let’s not just say it, talk about those who are seriously injured in car accidents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114388	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114389	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Ivanovic, we are aware that the final proposal of the Road Traffic Safety Act is definitely also the last thing you mentioned, and unfortunately it is always that number of people killed in traffic. The fact is that over the past year 20,000 people have died in the EU area. In the Republic of Croatia, that number was 297, so we practically went back to those pre-pandemic numbers and certainly also the National Road Safety Programme 2021-2030, which says that we need to cut 50% to 148, thanks to this law, it will go in this direction. In order to achieve this, it is essential that funding and quality legislation, safer infrastructure, safer vehicles and better care after the crash be achieved. So we will certainly get results in this direction today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114390	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114391	Thank you very much, dear colleague, so I think the intensity of every law should be just like that. To improve what has so far been considered less good or what might be in the future is much better. We have a big problem in Croatia with the police doing their job, so the police can catch a drunk driver, punish him properly for it. But with us, such people continue to drive. And here we have a big, big problem, the relapsers are a big, big problem with this society, and then it just happens that you caught him when he didn't cause any car accident, you took away his driver's license, he doesn't have the right to drive, but he does commit a car accident, and there's a big problem. These things should certainly be discussed how to solve this problem for people with 200 or 300 criminal or criminal the application still manages the cars. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114392	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, I trust that you have certainly witnessed the situation when our drivers go to neighbouring or other EU countries and behave very responsibly, very disciplined in traffic, watch out for speed, about alcohol that I don't even talk, belts etc. However, as soon as they return to Croatia, then there is an immediate drop, so we can do it faster and faster and so on. Um, I believe you've also seen cases like this, and now that we're trying to sort of introduce a little order more, a little situation, and then individuals get up on their backs and say no, we shouldn't get caught up in some article or part of this law article, and we can't because of that and that. So we're all for reform, but not exactly when it comes to us, you'd beg for a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114394	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114395	Yes, a very interesting replica, surely all who went somewhere further were driving by the regulations, and that is exactly the problem they may need to speak more about in the future. That's why I'm going to point out once again that the whole debate has come down to this part of the article. In the 37th, where they come through family medicine, actually create this smokescreen that has covered all these other articles of the law that are good, which significantly improve traffic safety on the roads, and I don't think that's good. But God’s dear time will show its own, and time changes, and I think laws should be changed by that. Preventive never enough, education never enough and I think it's the most work to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114396	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114397	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague. It is clear that lawmaking is aimed at road safety above all else, especially by the emergence of new traffic that we have on the road every day. And as a witness or a traffic participant, I'm very concerned about the weekend and how all people behave in traffic and I think that besides education, we should really use more and more repression. But here throughout this story is actually the question of whether Croatian defenders will be Pedro of this law and we cannot send such a message from here, so we must make such a law that will be fair and fair to everyone, but above all, that it is safe and that we traffic users are sure of it knowing how many victims actually take irresponsible driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114398	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114399	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. That's right, I think the defenders were the ones who responded most essentially to the amendments to this law, or the introduction of this article, and I think they too wanted to manipulate themselves with the whole law. Those who have followed a little better discussion of experts and people who talk about it I have not heard one of them so that the defenders are the target in the essence of the adoption of this law, even moreover many of them are representatives here, and they come from the defense population and clearly and overly talk about what family doctors are essentially working with them, they know them well, they know absolutely everything about them, and I think that this first observation was the second most dangerous thesis that has been going through this whole debate is not good, it is not right and it is not fair to Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114400	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114401	So I'm going to use this replica to clear up the notion of seizing a driver's license. No, it's de facto not taken away, but the consequence is the same. So, if the doctor, with his discretionary right and experience, let the police know that I have no ability to drive at this point I can't drive because my driver's license has been taken away or not, but it's rhetorically taken away so that I used rhetoric, I think it's allowed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114402	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114403	Yes, but I think it's very fair that your doctor who assessed it for your own good, it's for your own good and for the safety of traffic to say that you don't drive a car here for seven days because you'll be under these and those drugs that have a significant impact on motorbike. I think that's how he helped you as a patient on the other hand, and I think that's good. Yeah, it's not taking away a driver's license that's one of the preventive things that I think is very good and I don't see that there's supposed to be a rock of interference or something where there's supposed to be a struggle, even if I think it's something good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114404	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114405	Your Honor, here's what I really don't understand is why you and your colleagues are talking about two or three articles in this law. We agree on all other articles and consider the law to be good in the rest, but in this part we find it not good. We made suggestions in the first reading, all proposals were rejected in a row. Look at how much I put forward in my first reading, they're all rejected. They've given our colleagues the opposition proposals they've all been rejected. In an explanation of the law, it says that the system is already automatically connected to the MUP system, okay, we agree with that, but if this is the case then we are talking about the expert system, this expert system needs... information that this system could make some decisions and that it could send information to the MUP. There's no such thing. So if someone's gonna do it, who's gonna do it? Doctor of general practice? It means he's taking extra weight. It's said here that it's not burdened extra. So who's right about that? We just want to draw attention to the fact that this part of the law is not good and let's find a solution to the general satisfaction so that we can all vote it unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114406	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114407	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pavić. I am neither a prophet nor a magic ball to predict what will happen, but as far as I understand it, we have the same provisions in the old law, there will only be a change here when the Ministry of Health, or Minister Beroš, adopts a rule on which and on the basis of which all this will be done together. I believe in that rulebook, I believe that this rulebook will benefit and benefit above all the doctors of general practice, and then those who will come to them for those examinations. So let's wait for that rulebook to be passed and then let's try to get rid of all of this that we've been discussing. I'm an optimist, and I believe it will contribute, contribute to better protection of traffickers, and it won't do any harm to doctors that I greatly appreciate for everything they do and I think they're one of the most useful members of our society. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114408	Now she will speak to a respected representative and vice president of Sabina Vosovac's assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The very fact that the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment that is likely to be accepted, which speaks of suspending the entry into force of the proposed Article. The 37th and related articles state that something dangerous about this law is wrong here and that certain assumptions need to be created, which is the adoption of regulations so that it can live in practice. Why did we come to the fact that there is something dangerous wrong with this law and that today 80% of the debate is actually about trying to be the voice of those who should have been thoroughly consulted and integrated in the creation of this bill, and these are primarily doctors of family medicine that were September 2021. They already wrote on September 14th an open letter to the Minister of Health, William Beros, where they warn him first, that the law existing respects the fact that they are not competent to assess the health situation, which the existing law respects, and the proposal of the new law has not been respected because it is precisely in art. The 230th century says that those who are competent to carry out medical examinations should be carried out by health institutions and companies carrying out the activities of medical work and medical specialists in private practice. So an artificial state of health can only be the activity and specialists of medical work which de facto is annulled by this law. Secondly, if there was a problem with the implementation of the existing law, and there was an infringing responsibility of the doctor and in this whole system of communication between family medicine doctors and the MUP, he should not have been dealt with in this way. In the UK, in their law, it means this is how many pages there are, this is a manual that fully defines all health problems, implications and actions in cases where drivers can or cannot be involved in traffic and where safety or uncertainty is represented in the same. In the same UK, there are certificates or warnings issued by doctors to patients, however, the patient’s relationship with the patient’s trust is not impaired because the certificate issued by the patient proves that he has been informed that he can’t, that he is dangerous simply in this health condition for his safety and the safety of others in traffic, one certificate goes into his hands, the other remains with the doctor, but does not interfere with the doctor’s and the patient’s relationship. But the M.O.P. at times when it's necessary has specific protocols to look into those data. It can't happen there like it happened to us in 2018. when a person under the influence of opiates and medications at a checkout house in St. Helena killed three people. What happened? She's a convicted doctor, paid for her sentence, and simply a woman has a stigma. After that event, what's going on? Doctors begin to report in an incredible extent, they have until now been obliged to report only more difficult health conditions, and then are done by medical work means they do not evaluate those health conditions they only report, the medical work performs extraordinary medical supervision. But if the patient is shown to be healthy in that case, the cost of the artisan examination is borne by the MUP. What happened after this unpleasant event? Doctors were scared and began to report at least 8,000 applications per year for 2,000 just proved that they were actually justified, for others they were unwarranted and the ministry had to pay for it. If that's why you're changing the law this way, then it's simply a completely wrong and wrong approach, it's certainly not good. And it seems to me to have something to do with that, too, but as it is said in the assessment of the situation as organisational, we will financially relieve the police, doctors and drivers themselves, but here it seems to me that doctors will be the ones who will be more organically burdened, and the police will be the ones who will be more financially relieved. If that's the intensity of this law, then it's not a good way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114410	Thank you. Ms. Marija Selak Rasudić first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114411	Dear fellow Glasovac and you yourself have pointed out according to different studies, but there is more or less consensus about the fact that the main causes of traffic accidents in the Republic of Croatia are from an unadjusted speed to a lack of distance, and then we have pedestrian errors and all this, to a lesser extent and the impact of medicines. In order to explain the fact that we ultimately have brought the whole debate on traffic safety to the impact of medicines and the issue of the competence of those who should warn the institutions about who benefits which medicines, without articulating through this law other problems that really concern improving road safety, which is a major problem in Croatia, especially if we are looking at what this debate has brought about, and this is a lack of personal responsibility when entering the motor vehicle and managing them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114412	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114413	True, it is a personal responsibility and this law should be recognized and it should be insisted, but above all, that personal responsibility in a way that prevents it from happening. You're absolutely right, 97% of the cause of the accident and road injuries are the first speed, the second to drink, alcohol and third phones. Unfortunately, this law deals in a small part with how to prevent that part and achieve a national goal by 2030. to make these accidents 50% less, and more is actually I opened this story around 3% of the cause of traffic accidents and road injuries, and these are health problems. Why? Because he simply entered into an amendment to the law without consulting those who needed to be co-workers and enforcers of that law and we are simply where, where we are, and is not answering key questions again, so everything could have remained as defined in the law, but that responsibility to more goes to the driver because if you sit down alcoholised for the steering wheel you will bear personal responsibility, if you are in difficult health for your responsibility will be borne by your doctor, it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114414	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114415	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will refer to the end of your presentation. I'm usually a big fan of crime shows, and there's always about two reasons when someone kills someone, or there's love problems or money. Here, obviously, what you said was that you were doubting is the subject of financial responsibilities, and it was the easiest thing for your colleagues from the MUP to take responsibility for someone else, but it's not the point of transferring responsibility to someone else, we always need to know what the meaning or goal of somehow adopting a new law or amending and supplementing the rules, so it can't be the point and the goal of burdening one group of people, it's here about family doctors and making their business difficult to make it impossible for them, and that your problem you had and to reduce here you haven't done anything, so you haven't done anything, you're a mess, and I have, I'm reading these provisions of the law and these amendments and supplementing it exactly in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114416	Thank you very much, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114417	Medical work has all the capacities and all existing powers in the law which are fine that if a person has serious health difficulties that may affect his permanent management of the vehicle or the safety of the vehicle, in that case doctors refer the person to the medical examination and after that examination simply depends on what he is, whether the assessment was good or not, the costs borne by the driver or the costs borne by the MUP. Why am I saying that? Because I still think that after this case in Saint Helena, the ministry has actually seen that the number of applications is increasing rapidly, that there must be a lot of skill and that the costs in most cases are from the care of the doctor, the medical care of the MAP. However, if we had left this system as we have, and we had passed a rule that would clearly prescribe what are easier, which is harder, in a way like in Great Britain, that it was easier not to give away secrets than to have doctors solve it with a patient, and for the rest of us to know where they go to medical work, we would have solved the problem more elegantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114418	Thank you very much. Now there's really no more replicas, and it's Mrs. Gossip's turn. Baarbara Antolic Vopora, individual debate also, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114419	Honorable Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. So I'm going to say what's really missing to me in this really insane law, the Law on Road Safety has really dropped into these already 12 and 13 amendments to regulate the over-stretchedness of actually traffic regulations. What am I talking about? So 2.7 million traffic signs are on categorized roads today, and experts say they should be half as many. Another example I'm going to point out is that the speed limits on state roads are every 500 to 1000 meters as well as the fact that the driver simply can't remember what the last possible speed of movement was. These are two examples that very plastically describe the situation, which could be solved in a large part of the safety on our roads by reducing this overindulgence. Now, as far as these rules are concerned, the other thing is the condition of the road and the condition of transport for cyclists and the cycling routes we have, and what kind of cyclists are actually driving on, and those who are involved in traffic. I think that in most of these accidents that happen today, too, and let's now think about what's really the main thing that's been some kind of center today, which is the consumption of medicines or patients that we're actually malte all about. We have heard that only 3% of those who are the cause of the accident, which are the consumables of drugs and that more than 30%, namely 35.41 according to the ministry, are those who caused the accident due to the unadjusted rate of movement. And now that I've brought all these examples to you, I think it's quite unnatural to actually re-nouncing only those people who cause accidents, which should also be dealt with in some way not in this way, but I think that dealing with this problem should primarily focus on those most problematic points that scream, so from prevention to education of pedestrians to alcoholism, which in most parts is actually a kind of socially suppressed traffic in Croatia at all. So alcoholism, we are a country that cultivates and produces wine, which we are famous for, in which alcohol is socially accepted in the larger, in the larger part, however, this drinking culture from that it should learn from schools further as it is taught in Slovenia, so we simply left out that part. And of course it's right here at road safety time to talk about that problem too, because when the cause of fatal accidents is alcohol, then we have to go and solve that part. So, by preventing from schools to education of ours, above all, young generations. I can't get the impression that here's the impression that corporations are writing us laws, so here we can also suspect with the right that insurance companies are actually the biggest winner of that law. The winner is because every doctor will need insurance as a result of this. Who will be without cover, who will dare do this job that will be imposed on doctors. So nothing's going to change because of the new rule, which is the saddest thing I've heard today. We make the law so we can pass the rule so we can understand the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114420	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114421	During this whole day where there is a large part of the opposition and the ruling participants in this important debate we have often and too often, in my opinion, listened to some personal impressions and opinions about how to manage motor vehicles, who should be in charge of this, what security on the roads is, and what kind of a link someone might have with the Birthian conjecture rather than that, as the most legislative body, we have indeed come down to what is crucial, and this articulation and management of facts in order to adopt more quality laws. In this sense, it seems to me that two things have been crystallized here that I would like to highlight before I begin to try to contribute to the systematicization of this debate by pointing out the extent of the drug impact on the ability to drive vehicles in relevant scientific works. The first question was whether the right to drive motor vehicles is the right to drive a human right or a privilege to insist on, but to be earned. We could often hear here that driving comes down to some form of human rights that can be demonstrated independently of the capacity of the vehicle. Since my freedom ends with the freedom of another, it cannot possibly be a traffic case where we all participate together. And as for the privilege that needs to be earned and influenced by our health condition, that's a whole different story, and that's where this glove that we've been discussing all day is about who needs to or shouldn't be reported to people who aren't able to drive motor vehicles. I will agree with most of the opposition that it really does not need to be done by family doctors because in practice it is not feasible. Their homework is different. They should be careful that when they cooperate and encounter patients an informed consent is present in order to inform their patients about the potential side effects of all the medicines they are using, so let them decide whether or not these medicines will be used at all because someone can literally and to this extent go realisation, the manifestation of our freedom to decide not to use any medicine, even if it helps to develop his disease because he wants to continue driving the car. However, I must agree with that assessment that we too often serve here as speakers and when they are right of certain social groups instead of self-accessing the problems the law refers to and trying to articulate them. So, the scientific prerequisite for this debate should be at all what impact medicines have on the ability to drive motor vehicles and I will come down here to a final specialist's work from 2019 at the University of Zagreb Faculty of Pharmaceutical and Biochemistry, which points to the dimension of the problem itself. And according to the analysis of this work, 70% of medicines issued to public pharmacists have potential influence on the ability to drive. Which means that when administering almost 3/4 medicines in a public pharmacy, the pharmacist should draw the patient's attention to this possibility and advise him on precautions. Furthermore, only 68% of subjects are aware that the risk of the drug's influence on the ability to drive is increased at the start of taking the medicine. And when you ask the same people about the influence of alcohol and other opiates, then everyone knows how dangerous it is, unlike the drugs themselves. In addition, despite the adverse reactions experienced, subjects did not stop driving but rarely changed the frequency of motor vehicle management. It could be concluded from the above that patients are underestimating the risk. So when we talk about who even informed patients about medicines, they were more often informed by pharmacists 37% and less informed by their doctors, which suggests a lack of awareness of the need to warn about the impact of medicines in the management of motor vehicles. And these are the basics. which we have in dealing with these laws, and the problems are really deep. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114422	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114423	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleague Selak Raspoudic. So, in your debate, you decided in principle to refer to the problem which is the problem all day and which opened up in public space, and that is how this law will work. But I would get that content, we have the form, we get the legal regulations that aren't so fundamentally uniform, we have some legal regulations where everything is solved until the last drop of blood, and we have somewhere where we say we have to solve it by the rule book. When we don't know how to solve it or when we want to transfer the hot potato somewhere else, and we don't want it to be discussed in the assembly, then we define it by the regulation, even as much as you've talked about what this law has been discussed, how the amendment given by the Legislator's Committee was adopted, and I'm sure that the law will not be in force until the rules have been passed, and the rule is in the power of one of the other ministers. So one other minister will adopt a rule that will allow this law to function So it's all going wrong together. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114424	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114425	I agree with you, colleague Mrak Taritash, we have often discussed this here, according to that old folk delay half-deposed, so they do it when they see that the law cannot function in practice and that there is a serious social rebellion then suddenly they are called upon to some rule that will regulate legal matter. We are generally underlegal acts one of the biggest problems of the normative legal framework in the operation of the assembly, and in the end these rules are often not only unquality but not adopted at all, which means that we are passing a law that we do not expect to live up to in practice, and during that time we are all discussing and receiving wages for our action. We could conclude from this whole debate that the HDZ is actually not the goal of bringing this law to life in these parts that are controversial which are supposed to be a change, but is the goal of putting it off and doing something here as nominally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114426	Mrs. Posavec The Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114427	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, we all listen to this debate all day and we're really going around the same thing all the time. You have also stressed here that you lack certain indicators, analyses, scientificly based analyses from which these measures would arise, and not only do you lack these analyses and that the ministry has not organised them, but even the proposal for this law calls for some European norms and directives, although almost no EU country has such a regulated legal solution as is offered in Croatia. Even if we watch as far as the MUP is concerned, the MUP has shown in its report that in 2020. Only 0.02% of the cases that have worked have caused some accident and managed cars either under the influence of drugs or drugs, so 0.02 total accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114428	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114429	Yes, I agree with you colleagues, therefore, and in some ways this debate is absurd because it has not highlighted the key problems that we have in traffic and how we solve them from the speed that we can all influence, and we ignore regulations to an insufficient distance, it is now in the fall of understanding of this problem of insufficient distance, and then further errors of pedestrians and everything else. So we didn't even look at how to eliminate these problems that lead to the largest number of car accidents, and then alcohol and everything else than we've focused on here is a small part of the problem. And in that part of the problem if we're gonna seriously talk about the data, they're really shocking. This is what I did not get all pointed out, subjects who were not informed about the potential impact of the drug on the ability to drive the motor vehicle generally felt that this information did not apply to them, so they did not change their behaviour nearly 50%, and the management changed regardless of the knowledge of the potentially harmful influence of them only 39%. We have a serious problem with personal responsibility or under patient information. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114430	Thank you very much. Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114431	Thank you. My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, agree with you, but I think we will continue to have this problem as long as we are through this law responsible when we talk about health problems and the impact of health problems on driving, and in some ways we will deprive these people who either because of insufficient information or because of the existence of information, but complete neglect continues in the old way. And that's why I think our doctors need the same education means that these are difficult health problems or permanent conditions where they are referred to them in my opinion should continue to go to medical work where they assess whether or not the driver is being taken away, but in these easier difficulties they also prescribe very clear patient information protocols and in this confidential relationship of the patient and the doctor with informed consent and the signature of the person that she was warned that in such a condition with the side effects of these medicines, she should not be managed by the vehicle, otherwise the law of her rather than the doctor will punish her I think That we're not going to get results. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114432	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114433	I agree with you and should approach this problem seriously to see how much it can be seen and pressured through the system on patients to really follow the instructions on the medicine and not to practice driving during the use of medicines. Yeah, it's hard not to drive, the vehicle makes us independent and makes us self-aware, but if we're a threat to ourselves and to others in traffic, we have to stop. Let one of the MUP's actions be done, and in the final doctor, family doctors have suggested that there are certain documents that will require drivers to show, so let the action be done, let drivers be stopped on weekends on Fridays and Saturdays, research shows that the most traffic accidents are interesting between two hours and four o'clock in the afternoon, and then let the people by chance examine themselves to show their documentation and see how many of them are operating the vehicles, so let's see how much is really the dimension of this problem and let them then be properly sanctioned. And I can't let doctors do it instead of the departments, nor will they ever be able to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114434	Thank you very much. And now it's Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's turn, and until I get here as impartially as a man who's never driven a car in his life and who doesn't have a driver's license, I've seen many of those who aim at me on the roads that talk on the phone, so I don't know if you've talked about it before, but it is. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114435	Maybe it was politically motivated, be careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114436	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114437	Maybe it was politically motivated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114438	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114439	Watch out, maybe it was a political assassination, try it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114441	Thank you. This morning, as part of the free presentation of the position, I spoke of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as one of the HDZ forts, and I will now show, on a concrete example, how phenomenal HDZ is doing. So, half past five in the afternoon, from the entire HDZ five minutes ago, a parliamentary representative entered the assembly, and we, after this item of the agenda, and a representative who hides as many of their candidates. After this point, we have another law on the right to access information which is one of the most important anti-corruption laws and has begun every fight against corruption. How many of us will be in this assembly at that time? So this whole thing really doesn't make sense like this. And the other half to half of five, we were actually mostly talking about the problem that the waist pointed to. And throughout the debate, despite the fact that the opposition clubs that differed from one another in both worldly and ideological terms and according to the content of their policies' programmes spoke unicensedly what they had said in the first reading, and previously during the public debate, doctors of primary medical medicine pointed out. And what do those in the ruling ranks say all together? The motionary's representative won't even know how to respond. I've never heard of what should actually be the content of the parliamentary debates, which is that we're looking for some space of consent, that at any point any of the HDZ representatives have remembered to say so well the doctor's profession here points to some implementing problems, we're really putting an imbalance in their responsibility on their backs and it's questionable whether the system can function in such a way, whether we can violate the medical secret in the way it's proposed by the provisions of this law, so let's see if we can go out to the doctors somewhere. By half past five, not a single idea, a suggestion, a sentence. And as far as doctors are concerned, it bothers them that if I understand correctly that they will need data on someone's medical condition to be included in the records, and these records, not only of course, will be available to people who should not actually have an insight into any health condition. And I don't think it's just about the defenders or the dominant defenders or any other individual population, it's about all of us. So can we make some kind of a minimum step in saying that it will not be diagnosed but will be entered within the period from the date of that and to the date of that and there is a temporary inability to drive without individually indicating any diagnosis. And secondly, can we define by this law what the rulebook should be? We have often called on the rulebook during the debate, but the rulebook is currently an unknown country. Can we at least say that it will taxively list some diseases and tax medicines whose temporary taking creates certain uncertainty or risks in transport and that no discretion can go beyond that, so doctors cannot come up with some ten reasons for expressing such a measure. And the fourth thing is, can we introduce one rule, one provision, one amendment that will say that the fine will be punished for the violation of that driver who found himself driving during which he received a warning about his temporary inability to drive a motor vehicle? Here are these few simple solutions in a way that would partially close the legitimate objections of the profession, and by the ruling ones would mean minimal, minimal, not to say minor and miserable concession. If HDZ is not able to do it either, we must really ask whether it is their diagnosis, and that diagnosis is simply a force, power, haughtiness, unwillingness to perform what we all came for in this Croatian Parliament. And that's to discuss and look for the best solutions. Maybe it's a good thing this is about the Road Safety Act, which isn't ideological, it's not party, it's not secular, it's simply something that we all participate in every day. And if such a law does not allow HDZ to hear what the doctors say, what our pillars of society say, what those who will apply the law say, and the question is, should any discussions be held at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114442	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114443	Thank you. It seems to me that HDZ lacks a diagnosis that this law has opened up the possibility of further diagnosis. The only problem with this diagnosis is that they impose on doctors who will be even more engrossed in the work they may not be doing. But on the trail of what you said, if everyone is here and I could even say that the MPs of the majority were somewhere on the trail of going the wrong way, it means that the rule should be first passed and then the law, so that it would be a compromise act to approach this second reading or acceptance of amendments, at least in terms of what the doctor's profession suggested. And that is that the diagnosis itself is advised, that the doctor gives advice, not that he is the one who comes into one relationship with a patient who is not exactly like us to say a pleasant meal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114444	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114445	Thank you, colleague, for beginning with a mistake was made the moment doctors weren't involved in co-creating this law. But since they haven't already, here's what you're saying is one of the suggestions, my proposal is a little bit different. I think that someone who works in the infirmary as a nurse or any other auxiliary staff can enter the records system and squeeze a clutch of temporary incompetence and enter dates, and without enrolling any individual diagnosis, however, it must explicitly write in the law that if anything happens during the period of temporary incompetence, any traffic accident because such a driver operated a personal vehicle that the burden of responsibility is then carried by a patient or driver who received the warning, then they would achieve the objectives of this law, and not an unwarranted and disproportionate burden would be thrown on family medicine doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114446	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Ante Bacic is up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114447	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, you should have given some warning to your colleagues before they did exactly stick to the subject, held to some kind of diagnosis and this result, and I don't know who would, I don't know who would pass the psychotest from those two clubs...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114448	Mr. Bačić, Mr. Bačić, come on, stop, stop, stop... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114449	It's okay, okay, I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114450	Mr. Bacic, please don't give me such advice, I'm already...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114451	Okay, I'm sorry, I didn't catch the injury up, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114452	No, no, no, it's not a matter of apology, I've already said 100 times that if I gave warnings to those who were speaking part of the subject, and partly going a little off topic very little talk in this assembly. Here's the time, you can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114453	I agree with you, Mr. Vice President, but talking about someone's diagnosis and personal matters and insulting such a particular club, I think it deserves a warning, but okay, when it comes from where it comes from, it's good. Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here I am glad, I think I am not glad that we lost all day in the debate on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, where we held exclusively one article concerning doctors and the establishment and the problem itself, the problem of introducing certain restrictive drivers for our individual citizens, unfortunately we did not discuss some of the crucial issues for road safety, I am glad that this MUP is still looking ahead, still looking at the future, and that this proposal of the law is quite clear when we look at and compare it with some other countries perhaps ahead of its time because it uses certain terms and we have included in the law of certain articles and things currently presently, currently technologically in the world, and I think that it is definitely in its time if not even in front of mentioning the normal and presence of the electric romobiles themselves, we are aware of the good things in the terms of the vehicle, and the fact that it is related to the driving us in terms of the vehicles, but to all the vehicles, which we are related to the vehicles, which are connected to the right to the vehicles, and the vehicles, which are related to the right to the vehicles, and the right to the vehicles, and the right to the vehicles, and the vehicles, which are connected to the right to the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles to the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles that are to the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles that are connected to the vehicles, and the vehicles that are connected to the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles that are connected to the vehicles that are connected to the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, and the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles to the vehicles to the vehicles to the vehicles to the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, and the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, and the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, the vehicles, and the vehicles, the I will mention only two things if the time is very little, and it is a pleasure that the law itself includes a transport zone in the protected cultural and contact zone, it is about cities that are protected especially about UNESCO at the time of the centre, and this is what we are talking about here in particular we mentioned Dubrovnik and Split in the debate here and I am glad that the promoter adopted about the article. 151st, related to art. 151., which is our proposal to drive, certain vehicles of the Croatian Red Cross which are of an intervening nature to fit into the article of the law governing vehicles with the right advantages of passing, and is corrected in this way. The 20th final proposal of the law, and by that we have changed Article. 151st law in force. I would point out to you, I think that we are in the debate and in the agreements and talks with the MUP and the police directorate that in the next amendments and additions that I believe will come soon for certain and Directives and harmonisations that we will support the HGSS proposal which sent a letter and a proposal on amendments to this law. Namely HGSS proposes inclusion in Art. 149. with the simultaneous erasure of art. 151. of that amendment, where the HGSS would be subject to the same article in which it is located with other emergency services. The MUP, the ambulance, firefighters, often also use HGSS services that come together for interventions, we can only mention that the HGSS has 800 to 1000 interventions annually, and over 200 of these interventions are of an urgent nature, so I hope that, that the MUP will keep that in mind and that the following changes will necessarily include this because we couldn't because of the modification of certain, certain articles, but we talked a lot about road safety and mortality on our roads. I have been in the debate on past changes and additions to mention that this drastic increase and fines and the negative points themselves that we need to see statistics whether we are going to help prevent death on the roads, I don't think we have succeeded in this, so here I am appealing to the MUP to get better results so that we still devote a little more to education ourselves, but also to the education and culture of our drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114454	Thank you very much, no replica, thank you. And Mr. Secretary of State Zarko Katic on behalf of the promoter for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114455	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since in the previous speech MP Dalia Oreshkovic mentioned that the representatives of the government here are poor and that they do not know how to answer anything, I will try to answer even though there was and one of the MPs is what I think exactly said that it seems to me that many have not read the law and are talking about this law, so I would like to say something, a few words about it. So it is constantly mentioned, it is constantly mentioned that medicines, taking medicines are not according to the records of the MUP do not constitute either 0.3 or 3% of the offenses or crimes. I would inform you that the medical condition of the patient and the medicines he is taking or in the event of alcohol driving are not direct causes of traffic accidents. So when someone's drunk he can drive instead of a limit of 60 200, but he can also go through the red, he can hit someone because he doesn't hold a gap, hit a vehicle, he can make a whole series of violations or criminal acts prescribed by this law, and then the police don't record that because to determine that someone's drunk, especially when it comes to a crime, he needs to have express evidence from a doctor that it's measured, I don't know 1.5 of alcohol in the blood, and not to say he's hit the road. You know, the police stop cars when they see a weird drive, they measure alcohol, they can ask if he's tired or if there's any other case, so there doesn't have to be alcohol. It could be a cure, it could be tired or something I didn't mention here. So the records are kept in such a way that the statistics to say this was about alcohol, this was about certain medications. Of course, when criminal research is carried out if someone submits an indictment proposal or if criminal proceedings are conducted that it will all be recorded in the file. So the violations are going through red, unadjusted driving, not holding spaces and a number of other offences or possibly criminal acts, hence severe bodily injury, fatal injury and the like. There have been questions here that are also consequences for drivers when we talk here about reporting, so explicitly Article. 50th, if I'm sorry if I didn't hear you correctly, no one mentioned him in an article. 50th is replaced by the following: The driver whose driver has been deprived of his driving licence or has been excluded from traffic or has been given a precautionary measure of temporary withdrawal of a driver’s licence or a protection measure prohibiting the driving licence or, as we now change this law, has been issued by a doctor who has examined or treated a driver or a chosen doctor and has issued a warning and has been informed of a police administration or a medical condition for which the driver is temporarily unable to drive a vehicle and must not drive a vehicle on the road for that time. At the same time this article. 289. 1st complements and changes, he also states in Article 2. So what are the sanctions for such a driver for all these punitive behaviors listed here. Therefore, I would add what several MPs have mentioned here, why the regulation has not already been passed, so the rule can't be passed, that some regulation would be a sublegal act, so it's also called a sublegal act that must be passed before the law enters into force. Now this deadline that was in the first reading for 6 months, now 12 months can be discussed, you can criticise it too little, too short, too long, it is subject to criticism and it is subject to everyone's opinion and I respect it and should respect it. Therefore, when the regulation is adopted, these provisions will be able to be applied when it comes to temporary restrictions or temporary restrictions. Inability to drive. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114456	Wait, wait, you have replicas. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114457	Thank you. I thank you for your involvement in the debate, and I believe that you should have done this before, more so than in these five minutes, that you have looked more at some of the replicas or attitudes that other parliamentary representatives did during the morning. And what I suggested or didn't hear or considered irrelevant. Namely, when you said that the entire opposition today is criticizing something as if you thought it was our own opinions. No, these are the views of primary medical medicine that pointed to certain problems, problems in implementation. And I don't know why you can't have enough hearing to find a solution, some form of compromise between a single system, which is health care and that repressive apparatus that should achieve greater road safety, so that's your job. You didn't find a good balance. We've offered you solutions, you don't want to hear them. Just because they come from the wrong side of the assembly. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114458	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114459	Your Honor, Madam Representative. We talked about it, but on the other hand it was not persistent in its views, so neither did the medical associations who addressed us come to their proposal, which would be the best solution in their opinion. There were calls possibly to avoid sanctions, so there was a obligation to report, but without sanctions, it was the only proposal I remember, maybe there was something else. And to try this very important issue and decide on the driver's health skills in this case of temporary health inability to try to find him the best balance and to have doctors tell you what a temporary incompetence is, not the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114460	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114461	Thank you. The first question, then why don't you accept that proposal to be without sanctions, you said you didn't hear anything else from the proposal, and you heard that proposal, so here's why not. And secondly, if I understand correctly, you have publicly admitted here that you are not leading and have no record of how many traffic offences are caused by the influence of the drugs, if I understand correctly. So it can't be exactly because the media reported that according to the MIP of nearly 700,000 traffic offences recorded in 2020, only 0.02% of the cases were drug- or drug-related driving. So that's the data from the MUP, so I don't know how you got to the fact that we can't record those violations that would be caused by what you want to regulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114462	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114463	About these famous records, so at the beginning of the presentation, I said what that is, how statistics and records are kept in the MUP. This case that you state that you see, less than in doubt, concerns those cases where someone was stopped, suspected of using certain substances, a certain examination was conducted, and it was found that they were under the influence of drugs or drugs, so it was not, in itself, a violation, but there was no other offence, no one hit another vehicle, hurt someone, didn't drive too fast, so it was the only one, the only offence under which they could be led.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114464	I can use this one of my, totally irregular yes, but do you... I can establish some just blood work, not blow, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It must be a more comforting offense then. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, yes.]] That's what I'm asking. Just then I don't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114465	The concentration of the medicine can be determined by some blood tests, blood tests, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114466	Okay, nothing. Mr. Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114467	In fact, my question is somehow on the trail of this, so if I understand it, there are records and statistics of those cases where it was exclusively determined to use the substance without any other criminal offence, without some accident being blamed if I understood correctly. And within the category of hidden accidents there is no record of whether it was because of the substance of someone else other than alcohol. I have to admit, I haven't actually been able to figure out what kind of records you're keeping and what kind of records you're not. So I'd only ask if you could tell us one more time. So we figured out everyone thinks this mechanism is keeping records, but what kind of records you're keeping I'm not sure we're actually clear. I'm really trying to figure out what kind of records you're keeping.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114468	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114469	Dear Mr. Representative, there are therefore records and traffic offences, traffic offences. You see the law is very large and a very large number of violations are defined and determined by this law, I don't know exactly what you mean, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114470	No, nothing, no more replicas. For now, for now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, has an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114471	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, I will first refer to what we are in the debate all day long and what has actually caused replicas and doubts and discussion in public, which is two things. The first thing that this law relates to what doctors of general practice or what family medicine doctors will ultimately do, what will be the relationship between each other and what will be defined because it may have to be a rule. And look at the wonders, that rulebook will bring our well-known health minister, and I think he's got a lot more problems now than that rulebook and that he's got that rulebook somewhere in his last hole of play, but we're gonna have to wait for him to enforce this law. And not so long ago, we had in a parliamentary debate last week another law that defined what the A4 format looks like, how many grams of paper it's given, what something and what color it is. So this law defines it, and this law does not define a relationship, leaves it to one regulation that is in the jurisdiction of another minister. So much for how much this law has opened up the problem, and it hasn't solved it to the end. And I have to say, you know, when you're doing some kind of job a little longer, or when you remember something a little bit longer, you remember different things. A few years ago, a hit topic was when we don't know how to solve the problem we're transferring it to the communal directors who are otherwise people who have medium professional equipment. So the communal directors were in charge of everything and everything, and I said from this pay phone that the only thing left to do was break up marriages, everything else worked. Now, the hit topic is obviously our family medicine doctors because everything when we don't know how to do it or when we decide to make big steps then we say it will work. Remember, when the subject of the crown was what we were transferring to them, it was the same now that Minister Beroš decided to do a big revolution or reform, so we have this particular review, so it will be done by the doctors of family medicine that we don't really know anything, nor how to measure the pressure that I can measure for you every morning because I measure or sugar. So, I have to refer to this fact that we have this law and then I want to say something that was a special subject to me and that I eagerly expected this law to come to another reading. That's what this law defines as personal means of transport, and that's that I wouldn't be there right now, it's actually your motorbike with an electric drive, electric motors. In 2019, the GLAS and I gave the parliamentary procedure to amend and supplement this same law in order to regulate it. For what reason? Because the romobiles became everyday, because what when the romobile actually entered into a collision with either a pedestrian or another, the driver of the car was being treated as a pedestrian, there was a big problem with them, and the wish was for the rhombus to become and enter our legislation, the desire was to define it for the simple reason that driving especially in the cities of the rhombus was faster, more environmentally acceptable and everything else. This proposal was, of course, rejected, and I don't even have to tell you, and now it's in the parliamentary procedure of the same proposal that's been updated, but we have a whole chapter here and a provision of the article that we haven't dealt with in principle until the end. In this light of the law, the proposer cites various examples, different countries, where countries, some cities and lists examples of both Germany and France, Italy, only to decide to follow one of these examples to the end would make it easier for us. For example, Spain has precisely defined the speed that can depend on the area by which such a means is moving, defined that they must be secured and defined what is transferred to cities that need to regulate in terms of possible free parking and everything else. If it had been decided for that Spanish model, it would have made life easier for this law. This way in law we have romobiles we haven't defined things to the end and sooner or later we'll come up with the next amendment to the law, but it's always about human lives. Whether or not Someone needs to pay with a human life to realize that we have to regulate it? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114472	Thank you, too. Wait, wait, wait. Mrs. Peović [[And I didn't see it right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114473	Thank you. The secretary of state decided to go out for a pay phone to warn us that many of us have not even read the law, and that we are talking about the statistics of the cause of traffic accidents, which is the measure of things. I'll remind myself that you're constantly out in public, and also here said that the four main killers in traffic are speed, alcohol, cell phone, and not wearing belts, and that's a statistical invoice. But what we didn't get after two questions, so me and my colleagues Glavasevic is whether this statistics is being conducted by the secretary of state or not. So, you've explained something to us that not every violation can be recorded, but I have to admit it was obvious that you don't actually know what it is. If it's not recorded by the team upstairs by your arguments, and our arguments are more convincing then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114474	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114475	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. So, when you have no arguments, use the standard of not reading something, and then the next sentence is that if someone even read it, they didn’t quite understand what the author was going to say. I kind of think that Parliamentarians have us different, I don't think we can all understand each other, I think that someone is better understood in a particular problem someone in the other, and we don't cover all areas, but you're a little uncomfortable and I feel uncomfortable when you ask the question of someone who's talking about the law in the name of the promoter, and you don't get an answer that was kind of elemental. What his colleague Glavasevic asked was how to keep a record and how to record it based on what the answer was not received. Now, the question is who's read and who's prepared, so we're preparing for the debate in one way, and the promoters should prepare for a completely different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114476	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic:
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114477	Thank you. My colleague Taritash, I agree with you that we MPs don't have to trade everything on every subject, but the law should be such that everyone understands it because if the address of some norms can't come to terms with what the norm tells him, then we as a legislative body don't do and we don't create good regulations. This law is something that is more or less relevant to each of us, all of us directly or not directly participate in traffic, what we have not been able to touch today is transport infrastructure especially for new forms of means of transport and I think that these units of local self-government will have great difficulties because this law does not give them clear guidelines on what they should do at all, and we see from practice that a good part of motorized vehicles now takes up the space that pedestrians should have. About these problems, this law doesn't really say anything. And I think there's going to be a good part. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] New accidents. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114478	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114479	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Oreskovic, because this question of yours actually opens up a series of problems that we have. So, on the one hand, we have a law that we pass, a law that speaks of traffic safety. I have to refer there and say that the time has come for us to have a new law because it's hard to follow, we have the constitutional court rulings, but I guess at one point it will come to that, and on the other hand we have this relationship with traffic areas. When I was talking about romobiles on several occasions, I was talking about romobiles, and we now have a situation, so compared to traffic surfaces, we have a sidewalk, we have a stake. We are now walking on the sidewalk, part of the sidewalk is being used by the cyclists, part of the sidewalk will be used by electric romobiles, or they are called personal vehicles, and in that conflict, three of them know who will always get killed, on foot, and when it is on a stake, too. And there's a series of problems that this law opens, and there's no answer. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114480	Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114481	Thank you. Dear colleagues. We know that so far the doctors of family medicine have been obliged to change medical status to report to the MUP so that one who could influence the ability to drive and then the MUP would send a review to the doctors of the medical work and if it turned out that the citizen was not able to pay for the checkup, but if the citizen or citizen were able to drive, then it would be paid for by the MUP. Now, the MUP has made a full financial break out of this law, and unfortunately, it seems to me, too, that it is actually this motivation that this dimming situation is now legalizing, against which it is a complete medical profession. Very public, clear and loud so please comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114482	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114483	Thank you very much. So I understand different motives, understand different goals. I don't have to agree with that every time, but I understand. Here it would go under that "my concern goes to another one". And for whom did my cross-country worry? To the doctors of family medicine. So now we have a model that works the way it works but obviously it's a financial liability on the MUP, that is, what they had seemed too big and they solved their problem. Is there really a problem for someone to drive without being in therapy that doesn't make it impossible for them to drive? Yeah, the problem is, and we're not gonna hide it and say we don't have to solve it. So that's the problem. But how do you solve the problem? Not the way you've got it so far, because in that problem, you're in it, too, but you're moving on to someone else. And then it's even worse. Then you say that responsibility, I'll do it in a year, then I'll go through it for a year, so I'll do something else in a year. If you have a problem and a goal and a way to solve it This law didn't do it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114484	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now we move on to closing words. The first is Mrs. Andreja Maric in front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114485	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's the final thoughts of the SDP club, and I'm going to say right now as we were in our first reading against it, and in this final proposal, we're not going to support this bill. We have expressed a lot of attitudes, but we do not respect the opinion of us who are, at the very least, a lot of the profession, or the opinion of professional associations, the association of patients. First of all, it is obvious that this bill is not quite clear, and it is just those who say that we have not studied the law. So this is about adding, Article 37, which was the most disputed with law. Therefore, a new item 4 relating to the temporary situation is added, it is nicely defined for a maximum period of six months and it is unacceptable. We've brought things up, but the only thing that might save you from accepting the amendments that many of us have submitted. The Legislative Committee says a delay of 12 months until the rules are adopted. Will you listen to the profession? Will you bring all of what the medical associations have told you what needs to be defined, what conditions, what diagnosis, what doses of medicines, traffic lights and conditions such as in some countries. So, is that rulebook going to save things, I doubt it? So now I spoke to representatives of medical associations who were at a meeting yesterday with Minister Bozinovic, who guarantees that they will not be punished. How can he guarantee it, if it says in the law, that there is criminal, or monetary responsibility. So it's not as good as you imagined. Furthermore, the safety of road traffic is most affected by effective and consistent enforcement of criminal provisions, education of citizens and information, i.e. prevention, and this is not seen in this law. We've set many examples. Unfortunately, I see you're making decisions from the MUP on behalf of the doctor, and you don't really know what this law is really going to do in practice. So what's gonna happen? Changes that have a dramatic effect on doctors of family medicine, but also on the full medical profession, on the attitude of doctors and patients, on the health of citizens who will avoid going to a doctor because of this law. It also refers to all groups and professional drivers and persons operating motor vehicles, emergency services. So these are all our citizens who may be wasting their medication temporarily. And what are we going to get their driver's license? We're doctors who don't medical work? No proposal of the profession in the e-consultation has been accepted. It is important to know exactly what is the job of a family doctor, what medicine works, and what is the administrative work of the competent services. So, the MUP takes off financial responsibility from its backs and actually transfers them to the back of another doctor who should probably be punished. The proposal that requires actually determines that every day a doctor assesses the patient’s ability to drive a vehicle is unacceptable, it will not contribute to road safety, it will disrupt the doctor’s and patient’s relationship, patients will not come to check, it will not really present their symptoms so that the health of citizens and medical existence is compromised, they will be brought into potential conflict with patients, conflicts, etc. In addition, the Republic of Croatia does not have a case-law related to the area, so the question is who will be artificial in the event of a car accident for which doctors may be prosecuted or in the event of a patient’s complaint if his driver’s license has been withdrawn. Family doctors also clearly say that all of us who are not medical work, we do not have the competences needed to work what are educated doctors of medical work. We all know we have our part in road safety, but it's up to us to warn the patient and do it. His medical condition, his symptoms, the medications he's taking, but it's not up to us to report it to the M.O.P. and take someone's driver's license. So, in this whole story, we ask you to review this whole law, to respect the amendments that we've tried so hard to save, because now that you've presented these articles in the 37th and 38th, it really doesn't look like anything, and it's going to bring you more problems than you've ever imagined it might be useful. As for those little few things you're connected to the first aid box and getting the car you went out to meet, that's okay. And a helmet. But this is all that we have rightly criticised you for not respecting anything, so please at least look at the amendments and accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114486	Thank you, too. Mrs. Maja Grba-Bujevic out front. What? ... No, unfortunately no, unfortunately not foreseen. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Then it is predicted, please.../Laughter/..., please, please, I have read wrongly, please, my apologies. [[But Ivana Posavec, the guilty, I think I can, but...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114487	It's all right. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. At the very beginning, I will say that I greatly appreciate your work and your contribution, but that I also express one sadness and regret that today is not sitting here with you and the resorient minister because this resorient minister has a great responsibility, you can't really replace him in everything, no matter how hard you try and give us an excuse here, really this is one moment where the Resort Minister, let's not ignore the fact, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia should be here. He should be here because this law concerns all citizens of the Republic of Croatia older than the 18th, he also concerns all those who want to become drivers tomorrow, he also concerns young generations, and he also concerns those slightly older populations. There is no household in the Republic of Croatia which this law will not touch, there is no doctor of primary medicine, family medicine that this law will not touch, and then consequently, and in fact there may not be a single doctor of medicine who has not been determined about this law so far, and therefore, with all that you may have fixed in this law or what you have predicted as good solutions here today on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I must say with great regret that this is a bad law. This is a bad law that will result in its adoption in this form, and I will say over my knee, breaking everything the profession has said, without hearing the profession exclusively from the Ministry's chair, cause great damage to the Republic of Croatia and the great damage to the generations that remain here. Of course, we will agree with you that we have poor statistics on road safety, but we will also agree that we cannot only solve these poor statistics with provisions that we impose, for which we do not agree and for which the profession has not agreed, but that first of all we have to work on other things and that we have to work on education, that we have to work on greater control and that we have to work on everything that will lead to greater traffic safety so that we all feel safer together and that we are more responsible as drivers for driving our vehicles. And when we talk about it all this way at the end of this long debate, then, in any case, it should be pointed out that through these amendments to the Road Safety Act, which predicts that family doctors will report to their patients who are unable to manage vehicles because of their health conditions, they all warned in the public hearing of family doctors and doctors of medical work, they have just warned of the great harm that is happening in this law. And I repeat, this confiscation or threat by seizing driver licenses is causing very bad damage to society, this feeling that he's threatening us all the time, that we don't know what tomorrow, that Minister Beros is calling for systematic checks on one side, and that on the other hand we have a threat to go to that systematic review if tomorrow it means staying without a driver's license and not being able to go to work because car transport is our only option then in Croatia we are introducing new elements of uncertainty and new elements of mistrust in this government, and that's what we need at least at this moment. And therefore, by appealing to the full understanding of matter, by appealing that you are aware of what the Association has said, the Croatian Association of Medical Works, as the primary health care professionals have said, as all those in the health system said, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we have concluded that we are offering you a solution to getting out of this situation, and that is to let the law into the third reading. This law is not entirely a disputed opposition, it is disputed precisely in the segment that we have stated, it is disputed in a segment in which the profession is disputed. There is room to find a solution in agreement with the profession on the one hand and the authorities on the other hand, release the law into the third reading, postpone the vote on it and find a compromise because it is the only thing that will reconcile Croatian citizens and will not raise new riots, which will not cause new petitions and new riots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114488	You, too. And now, Mrs. President. The coat of arms of Bujević if I'm not denied, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Mr. Mathayus. As regards the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws, a new category is introduced for vehicles that need to prescribe the speed of movement of the vehicle and introduces the duties of drivers operating those vehicles, which are not roads, at the speed of their movement, adapting to the circumstances and conditions of the areas under which they move. There is also an increase in fines for a violation of an unadjusted speed of movement, which is the most common cause of traffic accidents. The proposed changes will also allow sanctioning unconscious drivers who park their seats where they are filled with electric energy from the vehicle, which is wrong. An important item in the amendments to the law is also the corridor for passing emergency services, which represents a tract intended for priority vehicles serving for the passing of emergency vehicles when an incident occurs to speed up the process of helping the injured man. According to an analysis of some studies, an emergency vehicle corridor can speed up emergency services arrival in the event site by 4 minutes, and increase the chances of survival for injured persons by 40%. We should also point out that for the first time, punishment is provided for those who do not have a first - aid box in the vehicle, and we all know how important it is to have what it is to have and to be able to provide first - aid and always save someone’s dear human life. The essential item is to regulate the administrative and financial reduction of the driver’s burden, doctor and police administrations relating to the driver’s medical examination. The amendments to the law will allow doctors to issue a warning to the driver that he is temporarily unable to manage the vehicle in order not to create a new incident situation, and this change represents not only a financial discharge but also a major reduction in the administrative burden of the physician related to the sending of written notices to the Ministry of Finance as they do today. In particular, it should be pointed out that the article that regulates this obligation will only apply after the Ministry of Health has adopted a regulation which will professionally regulate the state of the disease and the obligation to report according to the health profession and not according to the Ministry of Health. All proposed amendments are of great benefit, which will be determined by their application over a further period of time, in particular with regard to the use of new technologies and the presence of new forms of means of transport. The essential item is the protection of the health and life of transport participants, which will increase by amending these laws. To emphasise that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club will support the government's proposal in relation to this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114490	You, too. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin in front of the green-left, etc. coalitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114491	Thank you. So the amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act that we are discussing today are really deeply problematic in several aspects. First of all, because of the effect these changes have on family medicine doctors, which doctors' associations have been warning for months, but yet you have not included any of the medical professions in the working group dealing with the draft of these amendments. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the law that we are talking about now mean that a family doctor is responsible for a person who should be responsible every day during each examination, each patient continuously assesses his ability to drive motor vehicles, and then, if he accidentally assesses that there has been any change in health conditions or changes in therapy that could potentially affect the ability to drive immediately to report through the CESI and therefore do so by doing so the patient’s driver’s license. If you are already putting doctors in the role of police officers who report their patients and for the slightest reason, all you will achieve is that patients will not go to their doctors, you will not report your problems and will not take treatment that would have been prescribed for them and consequently, except that you will lead to significantly worse outcomes of treatment you will lead to a situation in which patients are not being treated for driving because of the fear of losing their driver’s condition. We also remind ourselves that we do not have clear criteria on what condition, which therapy to which it affects the ability to drive, which actually means that the decision to do something about someone's driver's license is made on the basis of a subjective assessment. And in addition to all these changes and additions, you put the LOMs in a position of absolute legal uncertainty because you put them in a situation where they must be held accountable for any situation in which their patient committed a traffic violation or participated in an accident. So you bring doctors into a situation of difficult and unacceptable conflict of interest where they have to choose between their own safety and objective patient assessment. Are you even aware that these changes literally put doctors in a position to suffer daily over their license and basic existence? The question of what is the legislator's motivation to be absolutely deaf to all objections and cries and suggestions of the entire medical profession? And we have come up with one perhaps potentially explanation, namely, so far the LOMs have been a duty to change the medical condition that could affect the ability to report to the MUP, which would then send drivers to an extraordinary review of the medical work specialist and if that citizen were able to drive it would pay for the MUP, and if he didn't pay for it. Then when 2019. There was a terrible accident where the driver, under the influence of an opiate of 125km, was killed by a car with a three-member family, and the police immediately arrested an express doctor of family medicine as responsible because an adult and an adult was driving under the influence of opiates and committed a serious car accident. As a result, two years after 2020, applications jumped from 1,000 to 9,000 applications a year, as indirect doctors of family medicine wanted to protect themselves, not to risk going through as their colleague. And by doing so, of course, they obviously put a considerable burden on the M.E.P. finance that had to pay for a series of extraordinary checks. And from now on, LOM will do the driver's license, and in that case, the patient can ask for an extraordinary checkup and pay for it himself. So, these decisions, other than breaking the confidence between a patient and a doctor, will put an additional doctor in a position to cause additional financial costs to your patients. So, the MAP's amendments to the law solved its problem of not paying medical attention and it did it through the back of a family doctor, over the back of patients and at the heart, not in favour of what should be the intensity of this law, safety on the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114492	Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114493	Perhaps the basic problem that has been brought up by this debate is not the one that should report to the competent institutions of the person using medicines that affect the ability to drive a motor vehicle, but why should these people be reported in the first place. And there's a lack of personal responsibility, and there's a question that we need to give an answer here. Why is this lack of personal responsibility? And I would say that where the state is weak and inefficient, or where citizens don't trust that same state and institutions tend to break the rules and regulations because they don't believe that institutions are going to do their job anyway so they think that everyone needs to take care of themselves. Therefore, the result of a multi-year institutional devastation is also the wild West in transport in terms of respecting traffic rules. Because our citizens don't trust their institutions enough, they break the rules laid down by these same institutions and then come on the road in every state, and consequently we think that through family doctors or institutional action we will be able to change such a course of events. We won't. It takes much more systematic action and much wider changes to restore the trust of the gunmen in this country, and then to make them feel natural, not only normally respect the rules of these same institutions, but also to the extent that driving measures are affected by medicines. I wish this debate had been more systematic in the sense that when we had already focused on one segment of this law and on family doctors that we had at least tried to articulate the serious problem of drug influence on the ability to drive vehicles. In that sense, I would like to remind again, in conclusion, that we really have a problem in knowing the drugs themselves, in accepting the facts, therefore according to the relevant scientific research that I have stated that these same rules apply to these specific consummations of medicines because less than half of the subjects apply them to themselves. So, people are obviously overrated too often. And what is particularly important is that as much as 70% of medicines issued in public pharmacies have a potential impact on the ability to drive. Which raises the serious issue of implementation and this phantom rule of this law in action because it is a huge pool of people who would be covered not only by warnings but perhaps by concrete sanctions in the use of a driver's license because this means that most medicines issued in a pharmacy can affect the driver's ability to drive patients. What should certainly be done further is an informed consent. So, patient education on the consequences of taking these medicines because it seems that if we're already talking about this segment, there's the greatest possible improvement since here we are according to these studies that I've pointed out the least concern about. And half of the subjects were not informed at all by their doctor or pharmacist about the potential impact of the prescribed medicinal products on the ability to drive the motor vehicle. Most people, 88% when prescribing the product, were not asked whether they were drivers, and adverse reactions that could potentially affect the ability to drive a motor vehicle were experienced by as many as 37.9% of the subjects. Therefore, it is not the responsibility of family doctors to report patients to the MUP but it is that they communicate with their patients the consequences or side effects of the medicines they are using, which may affect their driving ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114494	Mrs. Katarina Peovic, Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114495	This is even though at the end of the debate I can see from the amendments tabled that most MPs and MPs have kind of given up on this law, to conclude that they can't even change it so that he can be better yet we will submit an amendment that changes this most critical item, which means that it is brought to the family doctor's situation that they can be prosecuted in case they don't report their patient's condition. We believe that this is also in the sense of a general social climate, and the stigmatization of a doctor, without talking about their work obligation and overcrowding of their work obligations at their workplace and that this will be put into their job description. What I pointed out in the debate itself, I think it should also be unacceptable as a form of discussion with the secretary of state and with the ministry when it comes to proposing a proposal, which means that it is still being debated in some way, and not that the representatives are accused of not reading the law if they are not satisfied, you are not satisfied with their arguments, but what we realized from that debate is indeed alarming, which is that the ministry has no relevant answer to the question of whether or not it is actually carrying out a record of violations, traffic offences caused by drugs or drugs, there is the secretary of state, in some ways I was trying to say maybe even to get out, it seems to me that you didn't have an answer, if you can of course report to the final, but we got the impression that you really don't have an answer to the question. If so, if you wanted to warn us that this statistics were not carried out and that we cannot rely on it, and I will remind you of what statistics it is, it is also published in the media that this is the data of the MUP is that out of the nearly 70,000 traffic offences recorded in 2020. In only 0.02% of cases, it was the management of the vehicle under the influence of drugs and drugs if it is not guided by such statistics as you have suggested to us in some way, then the team upstairs means we do not have any information on which such a measure is based, and if it is being conducted and if this is true again, such a measure shows that we will not do what we wanted to do and, of course, we absolutely welcome and want to improve it, and improve the possibility of reducing food traffic violations, but in Croatia it is really in the largest number of cases so-called. 4 main traffic murderers, speed, alcohol, cell phone, not using the safety belt until I know about not using the safety belt yet, there's been some kind of campaign, it seems to me like it's just given up on speed, alcohol and cell phones, and I think we see ourselves on the street driving and how these young drivers drive cars. What is important to us is to warn that the scientific community itself has said not to this law and that it is the most direct reference to this segment and that, with its amendment, we will propose what you have said to the secretary of state itself that the only proposal that is affirmative and that you have ever heard here, and that is to say to the doctors that, in fact, they give their patients a warning, written warning, and not to, that they have to report it to the MUP and it will be some of our interventions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114496	And Mrs. McNally. Dalia Oreshkovic will represent the Centre and GLAS's views in the final terms of this law, the bill's proposal, the final draft of the law, a little talk by the time you arrive, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114497	Thank you. Here I am going to ask the lawmaker here to apply for that final presentation, so that in that final presentation, he can explain a few things that I don't understand. The first is, does HDZ understand what participatory democracy is? In fact, this is not about the fact that the opposition MPs represented some of their unbullencing solutions, but about the fact that one part of the professional public is the part that should be implemented by an important segment of this law, that the model designed by the promoter is inequitable, unfair, and that it encroachs on the right to the patient's privacy. Secondly, I would like the applicant to explain to me why it is so controversial when doctors and medical professions have rebelled so much that, for example, they have been reduced by the prescribed sanctions for the failure to include data in the patient’s information system. Here would be one concession if nothing else as an expression of goodwill and willingness to, to cooperate in finding a solution. Secondly, why it was not designed to register in this system as I suggested only the period during which there is a temporary inability to drive without indicating an indication or medical medical diagnosis, we would remove that objection to the right to the patient’s privacy by this law. Thirdly, which are indeed diseases, diseases, conditions or medicines that can lead to such severe consequences, which is a temporary inability to drive, should in some way at least indicate in this law who it will be, so not only will it say so, will be a resolute Ministry of Health, but which group, on the basis of which scientific data, based on which medical knowledge we will write a catalogue of the situation which will constitute a reason for expressing temporary incompetence, therefore it is all perhaps 2-3 amendments that would settle part of the professional public to begin with, and this law will bring some purpose to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114498	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate, we will vote when the conditions come to pass, thank you very much and now we have exactly 17 and 45 minutes we have a break that is conditioned by technical reasons, actually videos to sisters, strima, strima, videos to sisters, thank you. ... He's strutting... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] It's the sights that are streaming. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] It's the 17th 34th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.44 HOURS]] He is not in the second reading with all the characteristics that have laws in the second reading. So amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which means three committees. Does the president of the motion state secretary Mr. Juto Martinovic of the Ministry of Justice and Administration want to take the floor? Stanka? Where? You? Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114602	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the CENTAR party and the GLAS party for ten minutes for further consultations. First of all, I want to point out the fact that at this point, there is practically an empty assembly, that only a dozen parliamentary deputies are present, and that is ahead of the start of the debate on one of the most important anti-corruption laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114603	So you mentioned him after all. Okay, fine. It's about this law. You can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114604	So it's about the law that is the outcome, the beginning of every citizen's right to make sure in his own eyes how people who are directly elected or appointed do business on their behalf, for their money in the public interest, and the assembly is empty. In a country that is flooded and immersed by corruption, this situation actually means that we have left the state to the hyenas more than the final bill has shown what we pointed to during the first reading, which is that the proposed changes are being broken down by the standards that already existed in both the law itself and the practice of the information commissioner himself who began to make good decisions, and then the practices of administrative courts that also set their way forward. All of a sudden, all of this is deleted among other concrete amendments to Article 16(3), which allows information on the availability of public funds to now be dimmed further by being able to be denied if the information is classified data. This practice will be used by the mahogany state-owned companies and owned by the local self-government unit whenever they want to hide some information about the availability of public funds resulting from pure corruption risk. We've reopened corruption throughout the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114605	Of course, Stanka approves, but we're moving on. Mr. Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration and Justice has a word as a proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114606	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The draft final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information is aligned with the Open Data Directive and re-uses information from the public sector. The final proposal provides for a provision with regard to information on the availability of public funds. In relation to the availability of public funds relating to a personal name or name, the amount and purpose of the funds shall be made available to the public without the implementation and proportionality and public interest unless the information constitutes a classified information or may be limited by the basis of the other grounds laid down in Article 15 of this Act and in that Article, a part of the provision which has been read or can be limited to the basis of the other grounds laid down in Article 15 of this Act shall be deleted. It's a newspaper compared to what was in the first reading. Furthermore, the obligation of the public authority to notify the user that the information has already been received or has been publicly published by the user should be notified in which way and which act has already been supplied to him, i.e. where the information is publicly available, indicating the link in which it has been published. It is also something that we have discussed in accordance with not only in Parliament, but also in the public debate we have seen better in this final proposal. The final proposal for a law in the article shall add Article 25a. The implementation of the solution shall be determined by the Commissioner. By making a solution to the execution that is ensured by giving the fine to the responsible person. The fine shall be executed by suspending the person responsible and the amount of the fine shall be prescribed in Article 142(2). The General Administrative Procedure Act. These provisions were also not in the first reading, and we introduced them as something that was thought about in public, but in this Assembly during the first reading. In addition, the issue of replacing Commissioners over a period of less than 6 months shall be settled and the term of office shall expire until the appointment of a new Commissioner. A person who will temporarily manage the Commissioner's office and perform the tasks of the Commissioner in periods shorter than 6 months will be appointed by the Commissioner from the ranks of officials who manage the constituencies in the Commissioner's office. Suspension of tasks in the event of the end of the term of office of the Commissioner or of the end of the term of office of the Commissioner before the end of the time to which he has been elected until the election of the new Commissioner shall be limited to a period of up to six months. The text of the final proposal of the law is also nomotechnically completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114607	Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114608	When we talk about the right to access information to a key anti-corruption tool that we have put forward our own legal proposal to discuss, to show that we are constructive and that we really show how important it is. The basic question is whether the government wants key information at all. In fact, with this law, we have a series of related laws relating to the right to access information. One of them is the Register of real owners of the company and we had a problem that was articulated during the JANAF affair where we couldn't get to the people who had a stake in the company, even if it was 100%-tan, and we had nominal owners, which is why we covered up the real owners. And what I'm asking you is, is it more important for this country to have a register of those who demand information from the right to access information because in order to get to the Register of Real Company Owners, you first have to on-line actually log in and give your information which discourages investigative journalists and all other interested public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114610	Dear MPs, ha, so this law goes to the public sector, so public authorities must show that they are looking for information for the facts and information that public authorities have. On the other hand, it is strongly highlighted, therefore, that the obligation of public authorities to notify the public but also on individual questions about how public funds are being spent. Of course, there are also constant restrictions in this entire story that have been discussed in this assembly. This harmonisation of this kind of test of proportionality, which in every particular situation must be led to the fact that two social interests of reconciliation cannot simply be found nowhere in any society in all democracies, anywhere is this data literally and completely not valid on the streets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114611	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114612	Dear Proposer, it's not one minute enough for me to look back at what you've just said is not always publicly available in all democracies, so I'm actually going to sum it up. So you're saying this law takes over the provisions of the directive. The directive explicitly states that it must not be misused in a way that calls for harmonisation undermines existing democratic standards. And that's exactly what you've done with these amendments to the law. And very similar to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest when you're packing something with a big colorful bow that some improvement and step is actually a deep undermining of the basic institutes. So far, through the legal provision as previously applied and through court practice, information on how public funds are available has been made publicly available. Now you're introducing modality, and that's classified data with which everything that's important to someone will be able to hide. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114613	Thank you. Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114614	And distinguished MPs, so you're bringing up a part of your personal perception, I'd say some kind of political attitude since you're coming out of opposition. It is simply not true that this legal document, these amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information, is a step back. I am truly convinced that this is a major step forward in the arrangement of this very important legal matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114615	Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, the Law on the right to access information has been one of the most important tools for our journalists and journalists over the past few years, with which there are actually many affairs that we have had opportunities to see in the last few years. If it comes down to it, let me formulate a question like this. How, how do you think about the possibility of misusing the data classification institute to make it more difficult to actually access information when it's in the public interest, when the media are looking for it, when a journalist is looking for it? So do you think there's room for that kind of abuse of these new measures and how to prevent it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114617	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114618	Thank you, honourable MPs, therefore, and distinguished representative Oreskovic is the same thing in a stable way, questioning and therefore asking me. Of course classified data is not the matter of this law. These classified data are somewhere, in fact, the law that solves it is a whole other legal matter. I can't rule out that on personal, in particular in individual cases, there can't be an attempt to abuse it, but the system as we have established it, therefore, since public, public bodies give, don't give, hide behind it, after which we have effective legal resources going towards the Commissioner, the Commissioner has strong powers as a call, as a body that solves complaints and, of course, has strong tools penalized, so punishing, implementing those solutions that we didn't have before in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114619	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114620	Dear Secretary, I understand that a number of procedures are needed if we want to access personal data that cannot be made available to the public, so one of these procedures is the anonymity of the data. It is also clear that this process has some costs and that institutions that store these personal data and which need to be analysed must carry out this process and that they should have tools that cost and then have some more costs during the anonymous process itself. However, I do not understand why this procedure should be charged to everyone. Why isn't that anonymity made once and then then available to everyone who is, who needs that data? It's about research, which is why we need to provide this information regarding our fellow citizens' personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114621	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114622	Ha, I'm not sure I understand you all the way. So there are some data that are published publicly and if there is a need to anonymous personal data they have already been made. For the data required, therefore, which are delivered for searching there of course in the databases where it is kept there is not anonymous and in that case, if the public legal authority is to provide some data, and there are personal data there will be anonymous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114623	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114624	Thank you. You said the information wasn't literally on the road. I agree, but we still need some information, right? And this law, as well as a series of other laws, should go in that direction to facilitate everyone's access to information. In that sense, I'm interested in the article. 6, so this formulation of information is available, unless it represents a classified data, means that you define to me what you've changed here and in what way it's changed here, and I'm just going to say that the doubt expressed here and in previous replicas is completely justified, whether we have in mind the laws that have been passed so far as to say, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest where we could literally from day to day see how lobbyist groups work on your writing laws, so the hospital directors, or doctors lobbyed to fall out of that law, or the head of clinics. In that sense, I fear that such classified data are sometimes used for false purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114625	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114626	And these are your observations, so everywhere in the world in society there are lobbys, lobbys that have their own interests. I can tell you that I would like you to be an advocate for an opportunity to participate in a task force that creates one of these laws. Of course that's where they come in, come in and I like to say, so except for the ministry when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, so other than us who have to harmonize the regulation, get it in line with, if it's compliance with Europe or something else, I'd make it, I'd say as good as possible, everyone else who comes in, so my branch lawyer, so the state's attorney, courts, first and second degree have different interests and come from those positions, I like to unpopularly say, come with my luggage to the working groups. But these external lobbies, I think, really, unprofessional, so those who don't participate in working groups have as much influence on you as they do on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114627	- Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114628	Thank you, my dear. I know you can't influence the Parliament's agenda, but I still feel it is necessary here to say that on the Parliament's agenda this is the report of the Commissioner for Information '20. and '21. I am sure that the debate on how the law has been applied so far, which are the problems, which are the needs of citizens in this fundamental human right, the right to information, would certainly be one significant basis for the debate and this proposal and, therefore, from this place, I appeal to the Presidency of the Parliament to finally begin to debate such important reports, and as legislators, I would ask you to assist us in this,.../incomprehensible/... parliamentary representatives, so I ask you personally to comment on how, as possible, these reports, '20. and '21. Not at the debate in the Parliament, but on the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114629	I'm not Parliament Presidency, but I'll pass. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114630	So as far as my position is concerned, she has no, no, no, I don't have a strong position, it's a report submitted by the Commissioner, it's submitted to the Parliament, the government is manifested to these reports as government, it's manifested to the Parliament, so I can speak to you, and I can speak from my experience, when some reports that the Ministry of Justice has submitted and articulated here because we are involved, I always ask in these situations whether we have submitted it in due time, and then the Parliament has its own procedures, its deadlines and executive power has no impact on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114631	If you're done, you're free. On conditional freedom [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because I'm sure you'll be invited to this one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Now, just a minute. Is there anyone on the board who wants to take a word for it? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic in front of the Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114632	When we talk about the latest report which has not yet come to the agenda, so the report by the Commissioners on the right to access the information that has arrived on the Parliament's agenda in April 2021, it is important to highlight some of the things that would significantly point to this debate that we have today on the final proposal of the Law, and in these extraordinary circumstances, the Covid-19 pandemic is experiencing significant changes that we see in the report in the access to information, which have pointed to anomalies in the system that have been potentiated by the lack of timely information and the inability and inability of more of their requests in exceptional circumstances. Namely, a 21% decline was recorded in 2021, one-fifth compared to the previous reporting period. In addition, the number of bodies that met the requirements of 2 209 compared to 3 708 has been reduced, so a large number of bodies stopped solving requests and the Commissioner for Access to Information interpreted this as being less interested as a result of the fact that users concentrated on those authorities hearing the information was necessary and publicly available through published information on websites. And now we come to what is a fundamental problem of the right to access information repeated from one reporting period to another, which indicates that most bodies, counties, etc., do not publish timely information on their pages. So the conduct of the control payment of 20 counties has shown that there is still a high level of non-compliance of certain legal obligations entirely, beware, counties, these are official bodies in accordance with what the law prescribes. Part of the county has not made any updates or necessary changes on its websites, given previously indicated shortcomings in the proactive publication of the information. An extremely low average level of publication of data sets has been observed, and all... they've published only two counties. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The list of donations and sponsorships, so those who directly influence the political action of the county body has not published 5 counties, 10 of them are not easily available Regulations on the internal order of administrative departments, and 13 of them have not published a reception plan for 2021, 8 of them do not have a separate section within which contracts for employment are announced, and how they are employed in the counties should we point out, and 13 of them do not publish notices of the outcome of the tender procedures, and for what to inform you when it is all predetermined, someone would certainly notice. A high level of irregularities has also been seen in the publication of information in the exercise of access rights and reuse of information, so what is this about? I, here, have concentrated on the key part that we should be able to influence, so on the bodies of public authorities, on the counties that do not implement the Law on Access to Information, which keeps warning the Commissioner of the right to access information, and we are doing new legislative changes here that should improve the right to access to information, so we are unable to respect the existing legal framework and it has been systematically ignored for years, and here we nominally improve it. Of course, we condemn such practice and believe that information is not available, that it is not available in due time, that I will conclude it will be particularly worrying to show in exceptional circumstances where citizens have largely relied, as the Commissioner warns, on those information that is available via the Internet, and when we talk about public service, it is insufficient. It is also good to promote who the most requests for access to information are, first of all, Croatian water, and secondly, because it is evident that at least transparent treatment or certain violations of the law are possible in these systems, otherwise there would be no such requirement. But this is not just a matter of criticism, since we believe that it is precisely the right to access information is one of the key anti-corruption tools we have articulated our own proposal to amend the Law on the right to access information and here, in the follow-up debate, I will refer to what we propose to make information available. So when we talk about the applicable Law on the right to access information cases of non-fulfilment of orders and decisions of the Commissioner for Information are regulated exclusively as infringements, which in reality has proved to be an ineffective measure for the timely exercise of the right to access information. The former Commissioner for Information spoke publicly and exhaustively, stressing that the infringement procedure is long and mostly falling into obsolescence, and that the Commissioner is further bound by the changes to the 2015 law in this respect, a direct quote from the Commissioner for Information, because the Commissioner cannot punish the body but only the head or other responsible person who is very often at the moment of the verdict and is no longer the leader, so the punishment is pointless. The point is to punish the body in due time, a system that resists the law, not just an individual. With regard to our amendments to the laws which give alternative to these amendments to the Law on the right to access information proposed by the Government, the Commissioner for Information as an independent state body shall be empowered to impose administrative fines on the public authority. The new powers of the Commissioner are estimated to contribute significantly to improving the rights of users to fully and timely exercise of the right to access information. In addition, in the practice of the work of state authorities and other public authorities in recent years, there has been an increased and very intense general normative activity seen in a number of partial changes to laws and other regulations and general acts. Partial changes in general normative acts make these acts non-transparent to their addresses with their rights and obligations which are contrary to the fundamental requirements of the rule of law. In this respect, the applicable Law on the right to access information contains provisions under which public authorities are required on their websites in an easily searchable manner and in a machine-readable form to publish the laws and regulations relating to their field of work. We estimate that these provisions do not fully fulfil their purpose, we propose to supplement them in such a way that all public authorities have a clear obligation to produce and publish consolidated texts of general normative acts, laws, regulations, regulations that are the holders, so that people can walk clearly through laws and find those that apply to them, not to drag them away with too many additions and changes that are not readable to lawyers, let alone the ordinary citizen to whom they are intended. Furthermore, when we talk about what is mentioned here, which is to limit access to information if the information is classified by the degree of secrecy in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of data. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 16th century 1 prescribed that the owner of information classified by degree of secrecy must nevertheless carry out a test of proportionality of public interest and also obtain the opinion of the National Security Council Office before conducting the test. The rules of conduct described under the requirements for access to information classified by a certain degree of secrecy are in principle drawn up to take into account the objective need for certain information to be kept secret within a certain time period, thus being inaccessible to the public while, at the same time, the law requires the public authorities to carry out a test of proportionality and public interest before making a decision on the request. In view of the fact that the Office of the National Security Council does not participate in the decision to classify some of the degrees of secrecy there is no reasonable reason for it to take part in the decision on the request for access to that information, where the unwarranted introduction of the councils into the decision-making process significantly extends the time limit for deciding on the request. Therefore, our proposal proposes to exclude the Office of the National Security Council from the decision-making process on a request for access to classified information, in particular taking into account that the Data Privacy Act of the public authorities which are owners of classified data are obliged to secretly assess the degree of confidentiality of the classified data and to make a periodic assessment of what the owners of classified data make themselves. So our legal proposal, which is an alternative to this proposed by the government, provides a much better and more comprehensive framework that would allow real access to information, what if we look at the previous report that was already needed The debate remains a major problem in Croatian society. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114633	Mr Arsen Bauk will represent the SDP's views on this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114634	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I remember from this Parliament's political history that the very SDP was about two thousand and that was the tenth in political orbit to launch an active abstention name, I think it was about this arbitration agreement with Slovenia if you remember that. So it's about our... Yeah, that's about our attitude and our attitude around this law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We therefore hold that some of the solutions in this law are correcting current practice or removing some of the shortcomings, but we are very careful as to the fact that the proposing party is, or which party is the majority party of the government that proposes it. And as the second old folk proverb says, "Who once burned and smoked cold," so I took so seriously the intervention of my colleague Oreshkovic on Article 16 of the 3rd century because I realized that her intervention was going in the sense that classified data is being introduced as a criterion, but they are already in art. The 16th century 3rd, so you've already hesitated in terms of this blow to the cold and would ask the secretary of state to explain better what is changing in art. Because you didn't answer that, and you had a chance. So the classified data is already in art. 16th century 3rd already with the applicable law, and what is added to that provision is a personal name and last name. So it would be good to explain why this provision is changing because as it interprets it, something further limits that would not be supported. In the first reading as a criterion that we said whether we support this law or not, we led the Commissioner's authority to hit the head of the body's pocket around as the Committee for Conflict of Interest, which is in shape I think it's an art. 25th, therefore, this was accepted in a way that, for the exercise of the rightful solution, the power of the commissioners to go and that they could impose fines on those who do not enforce the rightful solution. We support that, we think it's a good step forward. Is there anything more strict? We'll see in practice. So, I think that this way, the number of those bodies that do not execute the solution will be reduced and the proceedings before the criminal court will be avoided. If this measure is not sufficiently strict, then it should also go to service. The Law on the right to access information was one of the last ten conditions of 2011. and '12. When the EU joined, the European Commission gave the green, green, green light at the end of the year after the accession agreement was signed and everything else, and I personally had the honour and pleasure to take part in the creation of the first Law on the right to access to information and these were actually quite challenging working groups that you had members of the security system on the one hand, and on the other hand, NGOs. It has not always been easy to find the right balance between what is still required today, so between classified information data on the one hand and the desire for transparency and openness on the other. Practice over the last ten years has shown that we have been cautious, but not too careful, which means that at first we had a certain hand brake so that we wouldn't have too much openness actually have a negative or conflict in relation to what we wanted to achieve, but because we had a little more confidence in our government. In this government, we do not have so much confidence, yet we are inclined to be less careful and with greater care we see why a restriction is sought. This law can receive a passing assessment with this further explanation, and we believe that adopting it with certain remarks will nevertheless facilitate the functioning of the Commissioner for Information, that it will go in favour of citizens with a certain regret that this step is not something and greater. On the other hand, it is also a reflection of our trust in the current Commissioner for Information who also participated in the creation of the first law because he was my deputy at the Ministry of Administration, and also of what is like the legacy of Commissioner Ms Anamarija Musa, who I really disagreed with in one case, is a colleague, Marija Selak Rasdic, and mentioned, the punishment of the body. What's the point of punishing the body? If the State body is then from one item in the budget punishment goes to another item in the budget. And then instead of paying five thousand kunas of profits, it's going to go as punishment, so the profits are going to be five thousand kunas smaller. If it's the body of local self-government, so some plumbing, okay, we're going to punish the water line with 10 thousand kuna, the money will go to the state budget, and that difference will pay the citizens to collect water. Does that make sense? Hence, if a person has sinned, he has sinned consciously or unconsciously. The one who should have done so, not the institution, not the system, no, I cannot, therefore and today think that it is unnecessary to punish legal persons for the failure of an individual within the meaning of the Law on the right to access information, and the general punishment of legal persons owned by a state or owned by a unit of local self-government as a concept is totally this, meaningless, but it doesn't matter. This red tape is transferred from one item of the budget to another asset of citizens who then make up for themselves again by increasing the price of services. I would also like to say that in the reports of international organisations, NGOs in this segment, Croatia is entitled to access information assessed relatively well, much better than in many other segments of anti-corruption or corruption elements that are being evaluated. Therefore, we have reached one standard which has led to both the institution of the Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information and the Court, or the High Administrative Court, which, by establishing such a practice that has never been, in fact, been unremembered, there have been scandalous decisions of the courts which have been exposed to a public inquiry, but we cannot remember any scandalous decision by the High Administrative Court concerning the right to access information. Thus, the clarity of law and court practice in many ways, on many things, creates perception of how a person's rights are realized. What's the problem is at a time when it's real. So the information you're looking for today, if you get it in two years, that you've achieved your right, but it's too late and it doesn't, it doesn't have the effect you'd have when you're asked for it. But that's not the problem with the law, that's the government's problem. If a body leader constantly abuses your citizens' right to access information, the courts are constantly, the commissioner and the courts are constantly his, the decisions cancel out, then you replace that leader because he's incompetent or he's a thief. And what's going on with us? The HBOR consistently rejects requests for access to information, the Commissioner is constantly adopting complaints, the High Administrative Court is constantly making judgments against the HBOR, and then the State's Attorney General is constantly asking the Supreme Court for protection of legality at the request of the HBOR, thereby holding the HBOR ladder. It is, it is a scandal that is much greater than many judicial scandals from the criminal sphere that we had the opportunity to look at in our judicial system and I am sorry that it was no longer questioned in public when it was. To conclude, if our suspicions and doubts were removed by colleagues, Oreshkovic said about the article. 16 Respecting that our proposal from the first reading on law has been accepted in part, on increasing the rights of Commissioners, the SDP Club is ready and ready to support this Law, but certainly what I can say is that we will not be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114635	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114636	Thank you, Chairman, thank you, colleague Arsena Bauche, for saying that I have at least managed to hesitate, and that sounds good at a time when only five MPs have the opportunity and the will to listen and hear me. I'll explain why I've raised the question of the amendment in the first place. 16th century 3 because the devil is always in the details, but when HDZ proposes something, it actually means in the implementation, but it's a little longer story that time doesn't go away, I'd like to say first what my amendments apply to. Namely, this Law says that we have not introduced and transposed the directive into Croatian legislation, in terms of openness of data and their reuse, and we ignore the fact that until today we have not prescribed in this Law that at any time on the website any public authority should write, which should be proactively published without anyone ever asking them anything, so I propose, by amendment, that we make a commitment in the law that every body of public authorities should publish a list of all individual payments from its budget, indicating the name, address, OIB, purpose, amount, legal basis for payment together with the publication of the document on the basis of which the payment is made in PDF format. Then, a list of all contracts concluded with the public authority together with the publication of the contract itself, also in PDF or any other appropriate format. Then the systematisation of jobs in the body of the public authority with data on the prescribed conditions for that place of work and the amount of the prescribed salary or salary coefficient for each job. Next, an overview of the data on the filling of the workplaces with data on qualifications that one has and with data on when and on the basis of which the act is allocated, and if the public authority has the property, then all data on how the property is registered, as well as the cadastrian information on the property, as well as information on which the real estate is given for use, for which the fee and whether the fee is paid in time. Now, let's get back to art. The 16th century 3. Do you remember that story I think it was actually a statement by Zoran Milanovic who said that, I don't know, someone was supposed to push out the fox, and then expelled King Kong? I think it actually happened to me when I used the law on the right to access information. In fact, I knew that HDZ often used its usual arsenal of flossula against me, so it says that when I point out that in anti-corruption standards we go downhill that it was my political position, well, I wanted to get them out of my hands of such ground and stupid objections. My goal was actually to deal with free legal aid because the state is giving out 4 million kunas a year, which is insufficient, not enough, the question is what we get in the first place, how much we protect these social groups and I wanted to put on the scale. In balance, how much we stand out for free legal aid, and how many states and other public bodies are allocated to finance for the payment of their lawyers. And I was counting since we have over 1,000 example companies that the figure will be several hundred million kunas on the side when the state finances lawyers to represent itself against these 4 million kunas for social categories. So I'm the one asking you to tell me how much you've paid your lawyer in the last xy years and which you've sent to the 6,000 addresses, all the bodies of the public authorities. The first thing that shocked me is that the bodies in the public authorities include private kindergartens and we impose on them all the burden of obligations arising from this law, and there may be no rational justification for it at all. The second thing I wanted to do was see how many cities and municipalities and counties as public authorities are paying lawyers, but I actually wanted them to go on hand because I think it would be cheaper to be represented by the State's Attorney's office because, firstly, the costs would be lower, and legal certainty would be higher. Very often, mayors, municipal chiefs hire lawyers who give them some legal advice that the State Attorney's office later disagrees with, so when the government changes, they are exposed to various criminal persecutions. The third thing that surprised me, it surprised me that a number of companies, mostly local utility companies, provided all the requested information in time for a cookie. I was pleasantly surprised that many personally called me to check whether it was an authentic query and an authentic address because they thought someone was playing with my reputation and knowledge. Some requests may not have been the happiest or the most engaged. However, despite the fact that all companies, or most of them, have realized that this is a public obligation that the law itself implies, are always found and they say, and I will not deliver anything to you. And look at the wonders of who was among them. I'm not going to call all of them names right now, and I didn't even file charges against everyone, so I chose a 2-3 that should define court practice. There's a Janaf among them. So the question is which companies have represented you over the past 5 years and how much you pay or not, but exactly how much you pay for their financial services. I repeat of 6,000 public authorities, including private kindergartens, all responded politely to the asked question. JANAF had an argument that was difficult to sum up in 5 minutes, but among other things they called for that shareholders are not only the Republic of Croatia but there are other shareholders, so if I am given public information, not all shareholders, it protects or damages their shareholders' rights. They then said that this precision of the amount received by each law firm, and I am sure here that it is several million kunas which may double the total annual amount allocated for free legal aid, that this is not information of public interest at all, but business data whose exposure to the public can cause economic damage, and that in this case the need to protect the right to a restriction on public interest is overcome. Now, as this underlines under this Article 16, that even before it's written if there's a classified data, that's true. However, here some things are also worked out through Article 30, and that Article 30 states that the provisions of this law relating to reuse of information are not applicable to information, and under indent 11 or point 11 of that information in the possession of companies which are made outside the scope of the provision of services of general interest relating to the activity directly exposed to the competition and which are therefore not subject to public procurement rules, in accordance with public procurement rules. Well, law enforcement services are also not subject to public procurement rules, and they certainly do not fall within the scope of the work of a public company of any state, municipal or city society. In other words, under the camouflage of this law, it will be possible simply to interpret in further practice the Commissioner for Information and in the practice of administrative courts to find a foothold to refuse access to information when requesting information on the costs of legal services. This is just one example, very specific which I can explain and document on all these 6,000 queries and answers to the asked questions. And right now, I can't prejudge, given that the proceedings are under way in front of the Commissioner, and I expect perhaps at some point because certainly one of us won't be satisfied with the answer and before the administrative courts. And let's just remember what happened with the Committee of Decisions on conflict of interest. There we had 6 years, 6 full years consistent, consistent, affirmative practice of administrative courts and one area, one important preventive anti-corruption area was built step by step, stone by stone. A similar situation is also with the right to access information, there even in the light of the changes, and states that the administrative courts have just strengthened, strengthened, expanded court practice and in a good way, and now the HDZ has designed how to bring into all this a stumbling block. Chances that administrative courts now that a little HDZ has unearthed their doors are taking a sharp and clear, unequivocal stances that will defend the right to access information on the spending of all the financial resources are almost non-existent. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114637	Thank you. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114638	Thank you, my dear. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information is another one in a series of laws that come to us with a familiar label is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and unfortunately, in this assembly, the ruling majority has become a standard practice, assess and improve the law in order to better adapt it to the purpose of its existence, adapted to our specific opportunities for its implementation, was closer to the needs of citizens and with the deficiencies that have been identified in its application. Because at this session, we are obviously not going to discuss before the adoption of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information reports that have been waiting for the parliamentary debate for months to take place on 2020 and 2021. And now where does that make sense? Why in this case, too, it is the impression that the government and the ruling majority are acting and recommending that we are less important citizens and their needs than the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation because precisely because the right to access information by the public authorities is one of the fundamental constitutions of guaranteed human rights, we should be very interested in how this law is implemented, which difficulties both citizens and the media face when they want to access information, whether it is a well-organised procedure to sanction short information or not to carry out public consultations, whether citizens are sufficiently informed about their rights, whether the number of procedures to protect this right is increased and how to improve that protection. Instead, the law deals mostly with the so-called so-called law. re-use of information that accounts for only a few percent of the 20,000 procedures that are conducted annually in Croatia under the right to access information. We have confirmed this in these reports, so public authorities received a total of 23,548 requests during 2020, of which 23,091 requests for access to information, and 457 requests for re-use of information, i.e. 1,94%. During '21. The public authorities received a total of 18,576 requests of which 18,246 requests for access to information and 330 requests for re-use of information 1,78%. In appeal proceedings, re-use of information is even less represented. During the '20s, therefore, the Commissioner received a total of 1.516 complaints of which 1.507 99.40% relate to resolving requests for access to information and 6 or 0.63% to resolving requests for re-use of information. It would therefore be important to ask the question, why is the Institute of Reuse of Information so poorly used? And it would also be necessary to find legal solutions to promote the rights that citizens and IT companies, scientists and the general public obviously do not know well. Instead, we have received a final proposal for a law that extensively deals with the application of the EU's reuse of information directive, even to a reduction in the scope of the rights which may, for other reasons, be extremely weak and otherwise used. It is highly represented by the silence of the administration and the systematic misapplication of the law contrary to the fundamental postulates of the right to access information. The irresponsible conduct of the body seriously offends the principle of public and free access, which enables each user to have access to information and the principle that enables the user to obtain information in good time with the fullness and accuracy. These are obviously the main topics we should be dealing with, which are highlighted by the Commissioner for Information in his 2020 report, which we have not discussed yet. So when are we going to deal with the central issue of applying this law that is changing, and without being able to determine all its shortcomings? An alarming high proportion of illegal treatment among units of local and regional self-government, agencies, institutions, funds and centres and companies owned by units of local and regional self-government and ownership states the Commissioner for Information in his '21 report. So, when will we legally resolve this difficulty which unfortunately is not the subject of this amendment to the Law on the right to access information? It could not have been seen when the ruling majority of the debate on the information commissioner's reports delayed indefinitely so as not to affect the changes to the laws that are really necessary. But let's see what is good in this final bill because it would be unfair to say that the final bill does not have any good solutions, so it is good that the law explicitly cites public access to European Parliament documents, councils and commissions for the first time since this has not been mentioned so far. It's good to introduce and regulate the so-called. dynamic data which, as information in digital format, are updated frequently or in real time due to their variability or rapid obsolescence, as well as research data as information from public hair bodies in digital form, and which can serve as evidence in research procedures. It is good that the person responsible as head of the public authority is better defined, so the person authorised to represent and present that the courts have interpreted so far quite unequally, for example. that someone else, an information officer in the body of the public authority or something like that, may be responsible for the conduct against the ZPPI. And all of this is based on a vague provision that the person responsible is the person in the body of a public authority whose conduct and insubordination led to the violation of the law. It is good that public authorities are obliged to inform the user where the information is available and how the information published on the website can be obtained and the link to the information published on the website is resolved by means of a new law and that such and similar notifications can be made from now on. It is also useful to implement a solution by the Commissioner by adopting an enforcement solution which is ensured by giving a fine to the responsible person of the public authority to whom it is executed, which is carried out by suspending the pay of the responsible person. Instead of long misdemeanor proceedings that some public authorities leaders managed to obstruct. As a representative club, we find it particularly useful to define as high-value data sets geospace data on Earth and the environment, meteorological data and data on mobility and migration. And legal solutions that don't solve irregularities in the application of the right to access information will still be left for individual debate because I won't be able to make it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114639	Thank you. Mr. Luka Brcic, will speak for HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114640	Thank you, Mr. President and Secretary of State with an associate, and I welcome you all as well as my colleagues and colleagues late this afternoon, not to mention the late hour. Here, tonight is the point of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. As has been said here on several occasions, legislation and this point of the Republic of Croatia are in line with EU legislation. And this is actually another way of functioning within the EU framework, which I would say a relatively fresh member. Perhaps to some in a special way, here we are in the political arena the very word harmonisation of the directive in this context or in some similar contexts does not always sound nice, welcome. It may be a sign and a certain fascination, but in any case, the fact is that all the harmonisations and directives that we make, we bring them primarily because of ourselves, because of the orderly me of all kinds, all kinds of social functioning. In this regard, we also observe this bill. I think he's a very important factor in the fight for transparency, visibility in decision-making, in the interest of the wider community and at least what we heard in the first reading and tonight here, we have some consensus that we all agree that this is a very significant tool in the fight against corruption. And this is, in fact, a process that will always be in charge, and it requires by its nature to follow, perfect, especially if we have in mind the spirit of today's time which is extremely dynamic and in all spheres of rapid change. And I hope this isn't going to be how some people mentioned a dead letter on paper, that just about all those stakeholders who are in this process are going to give their lives to these words. Freedom of information, and thus the right to the availability of information owned by public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights which, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information and International Contracts. We can already say by the Directive back in 2003, the 2013 amendments set out a set of minimum rules governing re-use and practical arrangements to facilitate the re-use of existing documents in the possession of public sector bodies of Member States, including executive, legislative and judicial bodies. At the same time, rapid technological development allows for the creation of new services and applications based on the use, collection or pooling of data. The rules adopted in 2003 and amended in 2013 are no longer in step with the rapid changes present, and therefore the economic and social opportunities provided for by the re-use of public data are omitted. The EU Directive, the European Parliament and the Council of 20 June 2019 have amended the Directive so far with open data and re-use of public sector information. It is based on the general principle that public and publicly funded data should be reused. Compared to the previous directive, the key changes relate to the following: strengthening the quality of data for re-use, and publishing dynamic data in real time, and extending the obligation to publish open data to public companies in certain sectors subject to public procurement. As regards research financed by public funds, they should be publicly available because they have great potential for re-use outside the scientific community and subject to the principle of open access. This law also defines new concepts such as open data, standard permit, anonymous, dynamic data, research data, reasonable return on investment, third party. Surely, in the context of this bill and these topics, the role of the Commissioner for Information should also be highlighted very important and important. As is known, the Commissioner for Information is a person who protects, monitors and promotes the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed access to information and reuse of information. On the basis of a public call, it is chosen by the Croatian Parliament in time of five years with the possibility of re-election. The law on the right to access information has prescribed that the Assembly will discharge the duties of Commissioners before the end of time in the event that it is prevented from carrying out its duties for a period of more than six months and in order to overcome the existing legal gap and ensure the continuity of its duties. The final draft of the law proposes to establish that the Commissioner for Information shall, after taking office, determine the person in the order of the staff member who will temporarily manage the Commissioner's Office and carry out the tasks of the Commissioner in the event that the Commissioner is prevented from performing his duties for a period of less than 6 months. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club will accept this bill because we are convinced that the new law will help all stakeholders in this process to make their legal obligations more efficient and transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114641	Thank you. In front of the Social Democrats Club, Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114642	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, dear secretary and associate. When we talk about this law, unfortunately we also have to talk about things that are not well enough defined because of our specificities that we hear about almost every day, which is a variety of corruption, bribery and all that is happening in the public administration. Unfortunately, we have adapted here to the directive as foreseen by the EU's request for Parliament and the Council. But yet we haven't added anything to the law that would help us reduce this corruption. Unfortunately, we stayed back on those same remarks that we made for the other laws that actually made it impossible for us to start some proceedings, to have insight into the data, to have insight into the documentation, etc. etc. Here a colleague mentioned that we should have an insight into the data on public procurement, about the documentation that actually shows what was paid, how was paid, why was paid, when paid, who was paid, etc. etc. which is certainly commendable and we should see this, but we should be able to influence the public procurement process before that. When public procurement is conducted and we discuss what is paid, how is paid and who is paid, it is already too late. We should have had the opportunity to react first to the content itself and to the process of public procurement. Unfortunately, we don't have that option, because there is no body that would control the competition itself. We have a public procurement commission that only responds in case of emergency situations and when public procurement is not implemented under the Public Procurement Act or the subsequent election is not carried out that way. We've talked about this pay phone a lot about data problems. In fact, after two years of our persistent repetition, we have now first received data for the state budget in some form that could be processed in a table. If that's what you're looking for for for the budgets of local self-government units, you'll get almost never. Why? Because it is not in anyone’s interest to further process it in some of your applications, some of your systems that might give you some additional information that you need and based on which you might be able to take some action on the city council itself or on the municipal council or on the town hall. Unfortunately, this remains limited to delivering data in PDF format and then if you want to process these data, of course, then you have to copy them yourself or with someone in agreement to overwrite these data into a digital format that is acceptable. It means that either some excel table tables or an application that will allow you to process these data later and get the results that will later be used for further analysis or to draw attention to some irregularities that have occurred in the adoption of the budget itself or in the adoption of some rebalancing of that budget. Unfortunately, and if the data that should be made available is not received publicly at the time when you appeal to the Ministry of Administration, when you complain about the bodies that should handle it you get an answer, of course the penalties are almost nothing. And what's an even bigger problem is that the bodies of the public authorities are being punished. Why is the body of public authorities punished, why is it punishable by an enterprise owned by a local self-government unit or for punishing the unit itself when it does not go directly out of the head's pocket. What is only effective is to punish the head of that body. It is effective to punish the person who needs this information or data to be prepared, and everything else is actually going to the expense and to the damage of our fellow citizens. If we were to succeed, such articles of the law would be passed and that would be a generally accepted position, then we would have a different, different relationship to the provision of this information and to the provision of information that we have so as to know what is happening to us in particular in the bodies of local self-government. Namely, there are, there are a lot of tenders being held for sale, for sale by some companies owned by local self-government units. For example, over the past few years, gas companies have often been sold where we have not been able to obtain any information on what conditions, to which these requests were made to make an offer, how the tender was conducted. So we didn't have any information because it was all actually classified. What was questionable is whether there is a possibility that such data or such abuses, that there is a possibility, unfortunately, or that it is all expensive to the harm of our citizens, to the harm of our fellow citizens because the leader can always say these are classified data and I am not obliged to give them to you. And unfortunately after what they say, we've run out of businesses, we've got as much money as we've got, and the procedure for a check is almost impossible to carry out. And for this reason, it is necessary to add more articles or articles of the law that would regulate all of this together and which would actually be burdened afterwards by punishing the head of local self-government units or company leaders owned by units of local self-government. That goes for the county, too, and that goes for state-owned companies that we can't get the data from on time or in the form in which we're looking for them. By the way, I've asked the secretary why an anonymous procedure is being charged. Namely, anonymity is a relatively expensive process. Softwares for anonymous, means programs, programming systems for anonymity are also expensive and if this is only for one natural or legal person it really has a high price. However, if these procedures are automated, the price is much lower. So when the data is filled into some database if the night processing of that data is released then the anonymity costs just as much as it costs the processor time, and that's really very little. Therefore, it can be done, it can be automated and then the automatic and anonymous data is much cheaper or the procedure should not be charged on such a large scale. We know that if we have some exclusive data anonymous and a large amount of data, I'm not talking about the number of letters we're going to get, but I'm talking about the amount of data that needs to be anonymous then of course this process is still expensive. But I'm saying if this is automated, if you try to predict what users will be looking for, then we can get it relatively cheap, and in fact it would be possible that in the academic community or in the community where research is done, then these data are used real and more often, and that these data may even be regularly delivered on the basis of those requirements that an institution will either be a university or some research institution is looking for from a particular individual body of public authority. Of course, I represent that something is free because there is no free of charge, someone has to pay for it, but here I suggest that units, units or bodies of the public authority who, who have a request for the data that is personal data and who need to be anonymously anonymous, are actually anonymous by automatic means, and that if a request comes that they have already completed anonymous data, believe it, check it and do it and function, it's only a matter of goodwill. Of course, this remains what you are, which is stated in the law and these other sets of data here we have no major objections. And what my colleague said just before, before me, most of these items, or articles, are fine with me. What was contentious is what I have now said and I hope you will accept it in considering the next version of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114643	We move on to individual debates, the first is Mr. Josip Boric, he's gone, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114644	Thank you. Here, I'll try to be as brief as possible. No law should exist just because we need it as a member of the EU, so some directive will impose what, roughly in this law, should exist as a minimum of standards. I think that at some point we ourselves should be aware of whether we want to be a decent democratic country or if everything stays the way it is now. This law does not offer and does not bring about such great steps, or improvements as we really need. Yes, indeed there are some good details there, such as the regulation of the Deputy Commissioner for Information Institute when this one cannot perform its function, but that's not the point, that's not the point. When I say that we lack key things here, I point out that the Republic of Croatia has not established and has not established some basic registers, one of them is the Register of State Property which is relevant in the sense that it is seen exactly what the state has to do with, so as a first list, and as a second information on which this property is made available with all the accompanying data, who made the decision, on the basis of which criteria, with which compensation and when that fee is paid, so it's just one of the registers, and then everyone else. Since the state in which there is a strong and well-rooted perception of a system of entrenchedness, about fixed tenders, about employment through party, family, cousin, godfather and other relationships, we need a proactive, accurate, pedantic publication of job systematization in all public authorities with the prescribed conditions for each of these jobs and with information on who each function is at some point in time to check whether there is a person who is there somewhere in a company or a company working on a counter is a condition for that job or is located on a birthline somewhere. And to end the presentation of all payments and payments along with the legal basis, I mean contracts, orders, decisions and other acts, too, should be something that is published in itself in real time without having to meet the right requirement at all, the right to access information. Such a detailed or elaborate system of obligations that exist in itself is not contained in the existing law, and that is exactly what my amendments apply to. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114645	Thank you very much, you kept your word, you were as short as possible, but you have two replicas, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114646	Honorable MPs, you mentioned the Register of State Property, I was one of the first to work on that register, so the register didn't exist, and we built it, so you know how much a turbulence system was and how uninterested the state was in that register, I think everyone would be shocked, but the same case is in the City of Zagreb, they don't need that register, as long as there's no register until they can do what they want, so far the data are non-transparent and you can't appeal to absolutely anything. And the more people you have who can rely on quality data, who can analyze that data, you have a big correction, and that correction is not in anyone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114647	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114648	Thank you. When I say public register, I mean publicly published and publicly available register, of course he's gone. You mentioned the City of Zagreb, here tomorrow we will discuss the report of the State Audit Office, it seems to me that it is 2014, but here for a year I allow that I may have made a mistake here where the State Audit Office has found that only 173 JLS seem to know what they have, the rest of them do not, none of them have a publicly available register of their property, and the system of monitoring the collection records, excise fees, rents, rents also does not work anywhere. It literally means that the state is made so that it leaks everywhere, and it's known in whose pockets the public's money flows so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114649	- Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin, and well, I'm sorry, Mrs. Gamulin. Raukar Gamulin has, has a debate, I thought you had a replica, you have a debate, you have a debate, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go, you have a go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114650	Thank you very much, thank you. So, I would now say what we do not think solves irregularities in the application of the right to access information, so a change proposing to amend the deadline within which the Commissioner is obliged to make a decision on the appeal so that, instead of the 30-day deadline so far, a regular, orderly, orderly appeal is established twice the time limit of 60 days from the date of submission of the orderly appeal. This will not go into favour of successful consumption of the right to, to access information as we still need to say again by the constitution of the guaranteed right. So today when information to users to perform their supervisory, media, corrective or some similar functions is needed as soon and as quickly as possible, the extension of the deadlines really do not think it is a good solution. We consider strengthening the financial and human potential of the Information Commissioner's office here to be a more useful decision, both as strategic and long-term so as not to turn the wheel and go backwards. We also see no purpose or purpose or basis for the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Access to Information Act to amend that the Commissioner for Information shall submit a report to HS on the implementation of this Act and other reports when it considers that it is necessary but only when it requests it. What is the purpose of putting HS in the role of someone who predetermins the scope of his relationship with such an important independent body and protector of the Constitution of protected law and the new norm should not exclude the existing. So let the Commissioner address the Parliament and when it considers that it is necessary and when the HS asks him to do so. So St. 3 Art. 16 The law so far, as already mentioned, information on the availability of public funds is available to the public and without the implementation of the procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Article unless the information constitutes a classified information and a new proposed text. 6, now 16, information on the availability of public funds relating to a personal name or name, amount and purpose of funds is available to the public and without carrying out a test of proportionality and public interest referred to in Article 1 of this Article unless the information constitutes a classified data. So only the information that I have highlighted can be obtained without conducting a test of proportionality and public interest and any limitation of this provision, and as proposed in the draft amendments and additions, it would be a significant step backwards in relation to the right of citizens and citizens to know how to manage funds that are allocated to public needs. We are further concerned by the article. 17, Art. 32st century 2 which mentions the collection of real material costs of reuse of information because, for example, if we are looking for API access to the register of real owners, and ownership of companies in the bill belongs to high-value data. Will FINA be able to charge us for the development of API access to data, where it says it won't? In addition, the list of bodies listed in item 3. 3 which, lastly, will be published by the Commissioner in the 9th century, we propose putting the list on public consultation. We also propose a public consultation on the deadlines for the published information of certain high-value thematic categories of data. In addition, although not covered by these amendments, it is also proposed that the duration of the public consultation be prescribed for no less than 30 days, except in exceptional situations which will be clearly prescribed. Here, I'm mine, I'll do something else in the final. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114651	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114652	It's like Santa Barbara. Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114653	Thank you, dear colleague Ursha Gamulin Raukar. So even in Zagreb, a new option has been defeated, I am very much in favour of you, rooting for it, so not because I like you as an option but because I live here to make some steps. What I think is missing and starting to be a growing stumbling block, and it will be as soon as we get into the process of rebuilding is exactly that non-existent register of city property, city dwellings, in this form as I said, that it is public, that it is transparent, to see who is or is not located, who is given to use and at what price. Do you have any information on what the City of Zagreb is doing about this? Does he intend to do anything and when can we expect such a single registry to see the light of day?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114654	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114655	I thank my colleagues for that question. As you know, I'm really not in the city administration, and I don't have any concrete data to tell you right now, but I know for a fact that that's what a register is doing because it was, it was us who were also in opposition, and it was as activists before we entered politics that demanded that kind of transparency. This register is about, not only because of the transparency that is terribly important, but because it would even know what the City of Zagreb has and how to fertilize the entire property in the best way possible. Without that elemental register, it just can't. Yeah, that's what it's all about. As we say, for transparency we are also with the budget going to this kind of transparency in these levels where there are no other cities, thank you for asking, yes, we want to spend it and we will spend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114656	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114657	Dear MPs, what you have now stated, it is truly commendable, if you do, if you realize it because it has not been realised for many years, although frankly speaking, I doubt that you will succeed, but well, what it is, there it is. What is important to note, public disclosure is extremely important, and it is particularly important that this data is published on time. Namely, if those who fill the budget specifically entrepreneurs, craftsmen, in time don't submit their annual report until the date that the state prescribes, pay huge penalties, and if the units of local self-government that these same bonds fill with their income tax money, income tax and their income tax workers, what happens? Local self-government units pay almost nothing or pay again with taxpayers' money. Therefore, that part should be changed, it is necessary to clearly define who is responsible and who pays the fines, but not to be the unit of local self-government or companies owned by local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114658	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114659	Thank you. Well, I think we're missing that personal responsibility from the former system. It's kind of spill over, and then it's called collective responsibility, so now it's not called collective responsibility because it's unpopular because of what's called so-called collective responsibility. Socialism, Communism, or I don't know what with these, on the right-hand side such a terrible horror, and we know that actually gentlemen are just that. The comrades just moved on to gentlemen, but we're not going to talk about it right now. Yes, of course, we need personal responsibility, we need witnesses that when either private companies or citizens at any expense or at any later rate pay any kind of penalty, and when it is done by either the local self-government unit or the state some instance does not have any sanctions. And of course I fully agree with you that this should change because without that kind of responsibility we're not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114660	No more replicas Please... [[I'll finish it.]] I didn't understand, but I don't often understand things. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, democracy, that's what we do, the government of citizens. Please. I've got my own thoughts. [[Intruder: It can take a little longer, the story of democracy.]] I think so. [[No, we're not stopping this clownometer, the chronometer.]] Citizens choose us their representatives, we give trust to the government, we make laws. Moreover, in theory, both we and the government should at least worry about a system of democratic fuses that should be independent and protect democracy. Such fuses are, for example, the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, the Ombudsman's system, the Commissioner for Information. If you look back a few years, you'll notice that all these bodies, this entire system of democratic fuses, in fact, are all significantly weakened. The Committee for Conflict of Interest is limited by amendments to the law in its power, the Ombudsman has repeatedly been under political pressure over the past few years, with the highest level of executive authority. The last time she warned of violence against migrants at Croatian borders. And on this subject, the FPI showed weakness among other things that we are talking about today. It was more like a dead letter on paper because the officials had no respect for it and no respect for anyone. But to be clear, these same officials have not answered any parliamentary questions again without consequences. What does that tell you? That the laws are not respected because the system of democratic insurance has no power to ensure that. So it's just so cool in this country that one former leader of one of the largest political parties is funded and familyly linked to foreign enemy force, not conflict of interest, for example. That ombudsmans are being threatened from the top of the government and that journalists are being denied information that is of public interest. And nothing to anyone. Welcome to Croatia's nominal democracy. The only important question about this law is whether access to information of public interest will be easier or harder than boredom. And I'm afraid it'll be harder. And if this is its effect, then it is a waste of all the talk of harmonising with European legislation because, namely, many of those data that our public cannot obtain on the basis of the parliamentary issue, let alone through the Law on the right to access information in the vast majority of European countries have been published and publicly available without having to be sought. So much for colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114662	Mrs. Oreshkovic is replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114663	Thank you. In fact, I wanted to talk about it in the final presentation of him I'm going to give up, it doesn't make sense, there's five of us in the assembly, so I'm going to be in your replica. When you were talking about anti-corruption institutions, you forgot about one institution, which is citizens. And I think that one of the key problems of the Croatian state is that we didn't invest in educating our citizens about what their democratic rights are, and I would say earlier that they are democratic obligations. Citizens who are not interested in asking legitimate legitimate questions, citizens who are not interested in self-control have the authority we now have. Among other things, I think the citizens might rebel against how many of us are in the assembly right now. But here are some questions that are not being asked enough, and citizens are under-encouraged to ask these questions themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114664	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114665	Thank you for the replica of counterpart Oreskovic, I think anti-corruption institutions are part of the democratic fuses. But you know what, I think active citizenship is terribly important and it's one of the most important parts of democracy, but I wouldn't, I don't think it's terribly inappropriate to actually say from this place, and the citizens are supposed to have the authority you are, the kind you chose because it's not exactly like that. It would be, I think, because there's a lot of debate about election laws in the Republic and how they've been made so some of these, some political parties are much easier to come to power than others, or that would be the same to talk about. I just want to say before we blame citizens who otherwise very often show that they are active and very often changes in power I think we should look at ourselves first. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114666	Thank you, thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you, colleague Glavasevic. And now Mrs. Raukar Gamulin is finally on behalf of the Green-Left Block. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114667	The remaining ones, therefore, before today's debate on amendments and additions to the law on access to information, GONG publishes a brief analysis of the results of Globl Datetre's 2021 research in order to warn that changes to the law are a patch solution that instead of increasing it will actually reduce the public's right to have public sector data. Croatia is late to implement an open public sector data directive that also mentions public companies for the first time. The current Croatian Law on the right to access information was among the more progressive in the EU precisely because it committed state-owned companies and public companies to meet citizens' requirements and citizens' access to information. And now that the directive explicitly mentions them that other EU countries would start publishing their public business data, Croatia is taking a major step back and restricting the public's right to seek the opening of data by state and public enterprises, does not fully remove the right to access information from companies, but neither does it extend it to the obligation to supply data in the requested or available open format. The lack of strong enough political will to open the data is also evident in the fact that Croatia does not have any other clear and predictable legal framework for data collection and publication. That is why Croatia took 27th place in the Global Date survey conducted in 109 countries of the world while it remained below average among EU member states. Data from the Global Date of Barometer collected through comprehensive questionnaires for each country of expert reviewers and additional sources examined not only how much data was opened by which state but also its social value, quality and usability in areas that significantly affect the quality of life in the community. Croatia is classified here in the middle category of countries that have a reasonably high standard of openness of data, but also restrictions in the political environment. In other words, although Croatia publishes about public finances, companies, property cards by officials, these sets are in formats that are difficult to use for re-use. It also lacks regulation of lobbying or regulation of the obligation to collect data on lobbying activities, which is a priority for monitoring the impact lobbyists may have on making individual decisions. It is precisely this data that has been found to be the key to revealing corruption and money laundering. The availability of real owners' register data as well as the use of data and property cards by officials is also very low, so all data sets key to the exposure of politicians' integrity to the public. So I'm with you now and I hope you've heard, shared a GONG report that's been following this topic for decades, and I think you need to pay attention to what GONG says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114668	You, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić Club Social Democrats final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114669	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm going to say just on behalf of the Social Democrats Club a few sentences about what we're actually missing right now, but I've already made a few suggestions on the club's behalf, and now I'm going to go on and explain it a little bit. In the law we have an explanation of open data, anonymous data, dynamic data, research data, high-value data sets etc., etc., but we still have no defined where, when, how we're going to make the sources of these data, how we're going to form these databases. Who's obliged to form it we know, units of local self-government. Who's responsible for the local self-government units if some data isn't listed in the database? Who is responsible if these data are not publicly available? Who's responsible for the construction of the register? How are these registers supposed to be made? Where are they supposed to be made? In what format should they be made? In what time should they be updated? These are all questions that we have, or these are questions to answer if we want to have real data available when these data are requested. Let's not forget we have a state cloud we didn't have 5, 6, 7 or 8 years ago, we have it today. We're on our way to building that cloud back there long ago in 2014. is now fully manufactured, but does not contain those systems that should be contained. Let us not forget that we also have a unique authentication system means we have e-Citizens through which we can get all the data from all systems if these systems are in the same place and if they are made in the same way or according to definitions that will be prescribed by someone in the government or by one of the professionals in the Central Office for.... If we do that then we'll have that data on the tray, we'll have it on our palm, we'll be able to examine it, we can process it, we can export it, we can process it in some of our local accounts, and we'll certainly have what's really important, and that's transparency. Without that, there's no transparency. Why would every unit of local self-government have its own data in its own format, on its computer in the bar, why would they spend money on new servers, why would they spend money on new communication equipment, why would they spend money on stronger links, etc. when there's no need for that. Note, we have a unique state cloud on which we can put all these systems, disk space today is no longer expensive, discount space can be acquired today without any problems, and the capabilities of approaches that should be to the cloud are only paid once and what is most important are controlled in one wheel, so all these approaches are controlled in one wheel. The ancient idea of a republican communication system is alive today, it is working today, it is working, it is being held in the FINA and everyone who is actually the bodies of the public authorities has the opportunity to access that system through other institutions and it is extremely important to us. Now, we've got space, so that's this state cloud, we know what we need to put there, we know how to access it, so let's do that, let's define it, let's write it down and make sure that the JLS leaders, let's make sure we have JLS leaders, let's make sure that those data are written in a unique way in the same place, and then we can get to all of these data in one unique way through the e-citizens and we get to registers, so we can pick the data from the register that we want and then it's the simplest, cheapest and most efficient and then there's no more secrets there and there's no need for anyone to learn what it looks like in the Municipality of Lovas or what it looks like in the City of Zagreb because all the data is written in the same way, and then it makes sense that citizens will be able to look at all these data, to compare them, look at them in the way that way that they'll actually fit because they'll actually learn it. So here's what I'm calling for, and that part to try and regulate as soon as possible, so that we can really increase transparency and have a really real access to information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-08-0.u114670	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Mr. Bauk, Mrs. Bauk. Oreshkovic, Mrs. Oreskovic. Raukar Gamulin, Mr Pavić and Mr Brcic, please allow me to conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met, and you will spread the joyous news that tomorrow at 9:30 we have a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021, goodbye and good night. The session was interrupted at 7:32 p.m. Thank you. Mrs. Nadica Dreven Buddinski HDZ.
