ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102726	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:04 A.M.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I will propose an amendment to the 11th session agenda with eight new points, and the proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted to you by electronic means. How appropriate. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure on the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 11th session. Just a little colleague, first Milanovic litre and then a colleague of Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102727	I'll say it's my profession, we can't hear you, so if anyone can turn it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102728	You don't hear me well, but I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102729	We don't hear well. Just a little volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102730	I don't know why you can't hear me, maybe we should be a little quieter. You wanted it the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102731	Same thing, so the whole week isn't just today, but the whole week is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102732	You haven't heard a sound in a week. And nothing, then I'd like my colleagues and my tech colleagues to step up a little bit. Okay? Okay. We then set the correct agenda for the 11th session, so we move on with the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102865	And as we said, we're moving on to taking a stand in clubs, clubs and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Ante Prkacin, who will present the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Where is he? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unfortunately, we can't do that. We've announced before, we've announced before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We announced before and we announced earlier, I'm sorry, we announced earlier and he was here. Is he here? Is he here? Is that him? It's not. Let's move on. What? Wait, wait a minute, we can go, yeah. But let us decide that. Yeah, let me decide to go, right? Okay. - Mrs. Crescent. Maja Grba-Bujevic will stand, so Mr. Ante Prkachin unfortunately loses his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Maja Grba-Bujevic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u102866	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today's exposure will be devoted to people who carry the burden of responsibility for human lives, and these are emergency medical staff. In addition to the nobility and courage shown daily in the field, they show both love and passion for their calling. The service that hasn't slept for just 24 hours a day for 7 days a week 365 days a year takes care of all those who need it. Last year alone, they had a million-and-a-half interventions and on average saved 200 lives a day. There are many jobs where a person spends faster and more than usual, and with physical effort, there is a higher level of stress, and emergency medical staff are in this situation right now. I would like to stress that both the Croatian Institute of Emergency Medicine and the Ministry of Health are committed to the exercise of the rights of workers on the benefits of work and allow me to call from this place once again unions and county emergency medical services to deliver the necessary documentation to the competent ministry for the exercise of my rights. It's the fastest way, and we're all here to help. I use the opportunity to thank the Croatian professional union of nurses who have already started working on documentation for nurses, and I sincerely believe that others whose task is to take care of the rights of workers will join. The emergency medical system today is regulated by clearly prescribed standards and educational programmes, for all those dealing with emergency medicine in Croatia. Continuing education of health and non-healthy workers is carried out and is regularly invested in infrastructure. New emergency facilities are being opened, spaces are being redecorated, equipment is being supplied that significantly improves emergency operating conditions. Only in the outpatient emergency service over the past 10 years, the number of healthcare professionals on the ground has increased by almost 100%, thus increasing availability of emergency medical care. Today, 709 teams with a doctor, 205 teams with nurses and technicians, 31 teams of alerts and 24 united emergency hospital reception are available to Croatian citizens and visitors. There is always room for progress, therefore, a resolute minister, i.e. the government of the Republic of Croatia, continuously invests in improving the system. Emergency medical specialization programmes have been introduced, a specialist training project has been launched for nurses and technicians who form the very core of the emergency services, which will provide them with competences for independent work in the outpatient emergency medical service. We are developing a national telemedical framework for the transfer of patient vital parameters from the vehicle to a united emergency hospital reception. The establishment of an emergency maritime medical service with fast boats is under way, and a model of helicopter emergency medical services is being developed to complement land and maritime and all EU funds. There is a medium-sized county in the heart of Croatia, Karlovakia whose citizens and in this honorable home have chosen me, so let me say a few words about the Department of Emergency Medicine of the Karlovac County. The media reported yesterday, and on the occasion of the National Emergency Medical Service Day, that the office has 129 employees and is conducting 19,000 interventions annually. They open new arranged facilities for emergency medicine activities, enable employees to study and education, have eu-standardized vehicles and equipment and vision and development strategy for further development. And why did I even decide to mention them? Because these days, he completed an accreditation and certification procedure under international standards that followed 663 criteria both from the profession and from patient satisfaction and from management. They were evaluated by gold accreditation, which is the first accredited emergency medicine office in Europe, not in Croatia, but in Europe. How did they do that? With hard work, respect for standards, education and above all excellent cooperation and synergy with its founder, Karlovac County. There are still such high-level ladders in the Republic of Croatia, but we want all of them to be like that. I therefore call on the county authorities to invest in their institutions and their employees in order for all patients to have the same urgent medical care taken by satisfied workers. As a person with experience of emergency on the ground, I understand the dissatisfaction of individual employees in the system, but all of them and us here, the parliamentary representatives and the government, to continue to promote the emergency medical system together in Croatia. Let's remember, together we're stronger it's worth it anyway in life. In the end, I thank all the paramedics for their sacrifice. Abnegation and dedicated work for the National Emergency Medical Day. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you..]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103067	Mr Davorko Vidovic will be the position of the Social Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103068	On today, a colleague and a colleague 15 years ago. Ivica Racan, a man who has been a representative of this assembly, died since the day of his draft as a multi-party elected in the free parliamentary elections until his death with a small interruption from 2000 to 2003 when he was Croatian prime minister, the Croatian government's president. Why is it important to remember this man and the statesman today? First and foremost because of what he did and did for his country, for the citizens of this country, but also because of a legacy that is largely binding for all those who think, must or want to work responsibly for the benefit of the community and the citizens they represent. I would also say that, that it is a reminder of Racan and his political style in a certain sense and a strong message, so I would also say a message to all of us who are in public affairs as we can, and perhaps should not, be treated when dealing with matters for public good. What are the most important in the legacy of the political legacy of the Ivica Racan? Three things I would especially single out because in these few minutes, it's really impossible to look at everything that really contributes to this great man and statesman. I would, primarily here, point out his role in introducing multilaterals to the Republic of Croatia. It is a merit that could not or could not be recognized enough, nor was it spoken too much in the 1990s when awareness was created that it all began with HDZ coming to power and their taking over of power in the '90s. A year. The battle for plural democracy began much earlier, heavy battles were fought within the then party between the extreme dogmatic, so I would say the pro-Yugoslavic forces and those who recognized new winds, new directions and the need for that state to be reconstructed but primarily to introduce democratic principles and democratic practices in Croatia, where Racan played an immeasurable and enormous role. Let me just remind you of a detail that's also a little bit of communication. At the time before the election itself, the very end of the election process in '90. The year when it was clear that HDZ was winning, that the SDP was going, the SKH SDP then went to the opposition Racan rejected the Yugoslav generals by pushing them out and expressing his position that we Social Democrats would defend the elected HDZ power, and that we would replace it only in the elections by winning because we would have a better political programme. The second great legacy is certainly, the legacy of the Ivica Racan is the creation of a modern, left alternative. Ivica Racan and a small narrow circle of people around him because the Bolsheviks mostly left the party and moved to the ruling then, in the then ruling HDZ is the creation of a modern, left-wing alternative that proved left-wing can be without being a communist, that it can be, that it can be patriot and patriot, without being a nationalist, that it can take care of people who have, who need to be protected without being driven into ideological tones etc. And thirdly, I would say a significant, large legacy of political Ivica Racan is the driving of Croatia's first multi-party coalition government and bringing and translating and modernising Croatia after I would say years of complete isolation. Croatia was an isolated, alienated and almost unrecognized country. We've waited seven years to enter the Council of Europe. In 2000 to 2003, we come to the EU lobby, ensure the highest rates of economic growth ever achieved in this country, we come to 5.7%. 200 journalists who were tapped in '99. The years are freed, modernised and democratically made by Croatia to the extent that no one could stop it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103113	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Nino Rasdic to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103114	My colleagues and colleagues, last week, I visited Prime Minister Plenkovic to guarantee for a year that his known influence in the EU would help them amend the electoral law. I also asked him what the situation is today, and as far as it came with the amendment of the Electoral Law. Instead of answering the asked question, Plenkovic decided to pack me with all the sins, deeds and failures of his and past authorities that have led the Croats in BiH to find themselves in the most difficult political situation since the end of the war. On 1 December 2016, a decision was taken by the BiH Constitutional Court in the case of Ljubic, which explicitly prohibits one nation from electing representatives to another in the Federal House of Peoples and requires an amendment to the Election Law. It just happened in 2016. Plenkovic came to power instead of without a compromise, political and diplomatic struggle to amend the election law in the last 6 years. how much Prime Minister Plenkovic acted as an anesthesiologist in the political euthanasia of Croats in BiH. I have repeatedly stressed that I have no doubt that Prime Minister Plenkovic wants to help the Croats in BiH, but it does so with the wrong means and does not think at all to cross the narrow red lines set by Berlin and the exterminator. Instead of being loud in Brussels, Plenkovic noises in the assembly by passing the cheap spin of Sarajevo's media and intelligence charters that here are the Bosniaks will not change the electoral law because they have offended Milanovic's sentence of soap and perfume. The first was not at all talking about Bosniaks but about the whole of BiH, the second meaning was clearly the first foundation of the walls then, and it is particularly funny that the Bosniaks chose Komsic three times and twice imposed the government without the real representatives of Croats in years before the statement, so I would not go on talking about it. Prime Minister Plenkovic has publicly accused the president, and with his statement, he has unconsciously become Bakir Izetbegovic's puppet. Plenkovica started celebrating Sarajevo media and Bosniak unitists a few hours after the show, and in Mostar he was scrupulously called Hamdija Plenkovic, in the translation of Plenkovic. Plenkovic does not see or want to see a modus operand of political Sarajevo. Not only does he not see or want to see but he is afraid to shout the emperor is naked and point the finger at the main culprit of the failed negotiations, and that is Bakir Izetbegovic and his satellites. Instead, in order to conceal his flimsy approach to the issue of Croats in BiH, Plenkovic agrees to be the puppet of Izetbegovic by twisting the words of the Croatian president. But let's get back to Election Law. I'll read you two quotes. The first quote, it is crucial to go to the next election with a new Electoral Law that will allow legitimate representation, not to go to elections at all costs, should not go to elections under the old law, finished quote. This is what Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said in Brussels on February 17th. Another quote, if we would agree to hold elections under this law now, we would admit that we do not support the rule of law, said Minister Grlic Radman on March 23rd. Reading these cuts, a man would think at last, great, excellently, Croatia shows that he has a spine, but once we wake up from sleep we realize that these statements were given in the wind and that in exactly 5 days he expects us to call the elections in BiH according to the old unaltered Election Law, which the Bosniaks will again impose on the Croats their representatives in the presidency and the Federal House of Peoples. What changed from these powerful Prime Ministers and ministers' messages in February and March this year? Well, he's arrived famous, but he's from Brussels and Berlin. In spite of the unconstitutional election law, in early April, High Representative Christian Schmidt, who was told before 2nd g. Plenkovic presented Red Ante Starcevic's medal and whose acquaintance boasted that Schmidt, together with the ambassadors of France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and the EU's special envoy to Sarajevo, sent a letter to the BiH authorities in early April asking for an election to be organised or would otherwise consider it an act that undermines the rule of law and democracy. We have a few absurd dimensions here. It is first noted that HDZ is washing hands not only through the prime minister but also by some others. Furthermore, Grlic Radman argues that holding elections would be contrary to the rule of law, and our German friends, Eurocrat comrades, French strategic partners and Dutch brothers from the joint European family two weeks later, the ministerial statements sign a letter saying that the opposite of holding elections would be contrary to the rule of law and democracy, so who is there? The third dimension is the very relationship between our strategic partners, as Plenkovic pompously defines them after he has cashed them a billion and some more euros for the rafts. Why does France continue to jump forward in the defence of Bosniak discrimination against Croats in BiH, and in a strategic document with France we have a special point of common action for stability and prosperity in Southeast Europe? And finally, given that a multi-year policy of Europhilic licking and where it should be and where it should not bear fruit because the authorities hope that someone will see it and reward it is time for a full review of Croatia's foreign policy towards BiH. Croatia must strike back those who oppose the equality of Croats in BiH. We cannot expect the Croatian side to achieve something in the negotiations if Plenkovic's request nods obediently to each but from the West, and it is obviously more important to have some politically eradicated Croats in BiH than to admit Finland to NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103115	Thank you, you were, you were clear, Professor, you were clear. There was one error in communication between the service and Mr. Prickin who was told it was the fourth order and we fixed it, so Mr. Prickin will speak as last in line now. Listen to me. We always try this when, when we're wrong, we try to fix it. Mrs Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj will be the position of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u103719	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are encouraged by preliminary data on the number of arrivals and overnight stays of tourists during the extended Easter weekend, they show us that we are on the right track on tourism and that we can reasonably expect a solid tourist season. But the full results will not be without a sufficient number of tourist employees. According to current public data in the tourism sector currently missing between 30 and 35,000 workers, I suppose we will agree that these are alarming data that can endanger the entire tourist season from which we all expect so much. Although amendments to the Law on Foreign Registration for Work Licences have been simplified in practice, many difficulties remain which slow down the process of issuing licences and hiring foreigners. Given the situation in the labour market and the needs of tourism employers, it is necessary to improve more flexible employment mechanisms and to eliminate maximum obstacles to the issue of residence and work permits and the employment of seasonal workers. No matter how attractive an offer we can offer our guests and no matter how hard we click on it, we will invest in the success of the upcoming tourist season it will not achieve the desired goals or results unless we have enough seasonal workers. I therefore believe that one of the most important tasks of the state is to make it possible for entrepreneurs to have rapid and effective availability of skilled and professional workforce and to enable all those interested in working in tourism to do so, for example through a certain complementary job. At the same time, it is necessary to speed up the process of issuing work permits. In the uncertain times in which we live today and in which it is almost impossible to plan anything in the long term, we must not allow unnecessary and excessive administrations to slow down economic activities, especially those related to service activities. It is precisely service activities that require flexibility and elasticity in approach because it is the only way to realise their full potential. I believe that, with the continued implementation of the reform of education or the harmonisation of education with the needs of the labour market, it is necessary to respect both the needs of entrepreneurs and employers. Only by such an approach can we ensure the long-term sustainability of the labour market, while also directing young people into the very professions that provide them with a professional and life perspective. We must also continue to work intensively to popularise lifelong education since the Republic of Croatia is at the beginning of the European countries' rankings according to the share of those who are educated during the working century. But what I want to conclude today's talk on the issue of seasonal workers is an appeal for closer interstate institutional cooperation, and I primarily have in mind neighbouring and close countries. This is precisely the kind of cooperation aimed at more flexible employment of foreign citizens, which can contribute to labour market mobility and achieve optimal economic results. In order to achieve these outlined objectives, joint work by all participants is needed to create an integrated migration policy that will also cover the topic of foreign employment in the Republic of Croatia in its key segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u104339	The first is the report on the informal meeting of the EU leaders held in Brussels on 17 February 2022, the EU Summit and the African Union held in Brussels on 17 and 18 February 2022, the extraordinary meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 February 2022, the informal meeting of EU leaders in Versailles on 10 and 11 March 2022 and the regular meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 and 25 March 2022. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the proposal to accept the conclusion in the form that I just read it. Please, let's vote. I find that 122 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 30 abstentions and 15 against, and thus we have reached the conclusion that we accept this report. Proposal for a Decision declaring the first week of June of the Day of Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision declaring the first week of June for cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. In agreement with 126 votes, a decision was taken to declare the first week of June on cancer days in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u105088	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u105089	It accepts, so it becomes an integral part of the final bill. And what am I supposed to do, I'm going to tell the speakers to be louder, I'm going to be louder, and I'm asking you to be quieter so that you can hear better. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters. Please, let's vote. 126 MPs and MPs voted, 122 for and 4 abstentions, so we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 264, the motion is a government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. 126 MPs and MPs voted again, 86 for, 40 abstentions, and we concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106180	Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues and colleagues The Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 25th session held on 29 April 2022 a written statement on the resignation of MP Marin Piletić for taking office as Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 April 2022. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time to which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Marin Piletic began acting as deputy deputy representative on June 18th 2021 as the elected representative of Ivan Celjak. The HDZ, in accordance with Article 42(2) of the Law, has appointed Magdalena Komes as the deputy elected representative Ivan Celjak. The Commission found that the resignation of the agent, Marin Piletić, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative of Magdalene Commes, were laid down by law. The Commission shall, pursuant to Articles 10, 11 and 42(2) of the Law and Articles 9(2), 10 and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 7 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament to suspend the deputy deputy representative's term of office and start acting as deputy deputy. In accordance with the provision of Article 10(4), Rules of Procedure, Marina Piletic, terminates the parliamentary term on the day when the decision to terminate is reached by the assembly. On the basis of the provision of Article 9(2), The Rules of Procedure of the Magdalena Commission shall act as deputy deputy representative, deputy representative, when the Assembly determines by decision the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106181	Thank you, colleague Jankovic, we'll do it first. This point, then we'll do the other one. [[Intruder: You can.]] I'm opening a debate over this point, closing the debate, and then we'll vote. Please, colleague Jankovic, you just have to sit in your seat so you can vote. So, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to suspend deputy deputy representative Marin Piletić's term of office and start acting as deputy deputy deputy for the Magdalene Commission. Please, please, let's vote. 91 MPs and MPs voted, so they all voted in favour, and thus a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath to the MPs. Article 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will exercise my responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. She's a representative of the Magdalene Comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106182	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106183	Congratulations to the MPs and I wish her a lot of success in her future work. I now call on the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to read the second decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106184	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written request by MP Boris Milosevic at the 25th session held on 29 April 2022 for the re-behaving of the parliamentary post addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 April 2022. The commission found that the rest of Boris Milosevic's term of office was due to incompatible duties under Article 9. The Law on the Election of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament began on 23 July 2020, and Anja Simpraga began acting as deputy deputy MP on the same day. As Boris Milosevic, in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Law, submitted a written request for the re-behaving of the representative's duties to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law and the rest of Boris Milosevic's term of office ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application. Deputy Representative Anja Shimpraga ceases to act as deputy prime minister for taking office as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia or when the Croatian Parliament votes its confidence as vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the above mentioned commission, pursuant to Article 13(1) and Article 9(1) of the Law and Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to suspend the behaviour of the deputy deputy. On 7 May, 2022, the stay of the parliamentary mandate ends for MP Boris Milosevic. In accordance with the provision of Article 10(4), The Rules of Procedure of Anja Simpraga shall cease to act as deputy deputy representative on the day the decision to terminate shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106185	Thank you, colleague Jankovic. I'm opening a debate, that on behalf of the Representatives' Club, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106186	It is inadmissible not to say rudely that public communication is being made and decisions that there is a person Boris Milosevic who is the vice-president of the government who can no longer act because he is under investigation by the DORH, while the person is good enough and has credibility to be a member of HS. What are we telling the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? That the council is beyond prison, that the cheek of the assembly is thicker than the face of the government? This is not just a moral questionable decision, this is an open moral sunflower of HS directed by Andrej Plenkovic and the SDSS. We at the Mosta Club strongly oppose that practice. Yesterday, you humiliated the work of HS and the work of parliamentary representatives when you had a simultaneous three almost parallel committee sessions here to push the new ministers quickly, to hide your shame as soon as possible, and to disable the quality debate and questions of parliamentary representatives about the actions of these same ministers, their past, and the plans for the resolutions they are planning to take over. So yesterday, you sabotaged the parliamentary deputies in their questioning of the new ministers. Not only that, but as great fighters for Ukraine and the rights of the Ukrainian people, you also managed to sabotage a session of the Committee on Gender Equality, which had the first single parliamentary debate on the position, acceptance, treatment and needs of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia, to which representatives of the Ukrainian community and the Ukrainian Embassy responded, as well as the relevant ministers. At that same session, we only had three board members. And why is that? That is why you, in breaching and not taking care of the already-scheduled sessions, pushed your three committee sessions and thus occupied the other MPs, so to simplify this, a very important debate at this political moment, and you like to advertise yourself as you are the most important foreign policy goal of fighting the rights of the Ukrainian people, has almost failed because there were not enough parliamentary representatives. You didn't care because any means could justify your goal, and the goal was that there was no debate and that this shame would be overcome as soon as possible. And in all of this, today after this debate, you have the courage to tell us the following, not to us but to the Croatian citizens, he is not good enough for the government of Andrej Plenkovic, which even a person may be running for and obtaining appropriate qualifications if under investigation, and even better if it is legally judged in view of everything that has happened before with all ministers. For this time, it is not good enough, not because of its past or investigation, perhaps possibly because of the PR damage because it is the only thing that can be calculated at the moment by Andrej Plenkovic, whose ultimate goal is to achieve his success in the Guinness Book of Records because the only thing that matters is that he is the longest prime minister, it does not matter that he is the only one who survives his government and remains a site behind him. And in that situation, in order to avoid any damage to the government, the government has denied Boris Milosevic the person under investigation of the DORH, and we serve him here in the assembly as a person with credibility who should be a parliamentary representative. Well, the council is the most important body in the Republic of Croatia. It's the parliament that elects the government. How can a person who has no credibility be in that government affect, by acting here, who will or won't be a minister, and this will be the function of Boris Milosevic as a parliamentary representative? Are you really going to allow colleagues and colleagues from HDZ to open up this open public and unequivocal sunflower of HS? Let's host all those who are under investigation of the D.O.R.H. in HS? For now, you are hosting those who will mostly be under investigation by the DORH, and you can do the current or the past. Well, this is HS. It is not considered that we agree that the first thing here was to defend the the thesis by which members of the national minority have the right to different criteria when they influence public competitions because then it is called for the care of that same minority and it is not worth the legal order and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And now we're told, until you're good enough, so the messages of Andrej Plenkovic, while you're not good enough for the Croatian government while you're under investigation, we know here in HS that there are obviously those who are in jail, if you're good enough, and when the investigation stops, you can go to the Croatian government that's under HS and responsible to HS. But the only important image is Andrej Plenkovic's image, and here, Bačić has just defended Andrej Plenkovic by speaking about Andrej Plenkovic, instead of talking about his government, because it only mattered how long he was headed the government and what will be done and will allow him to remain in charge of the same government. And we'd like you to put in here members of the government who have no credibility and who are under investigation of the DORH and HS should then have dignity and should act as the most responsible legislative function in the country. And you're really going to vote for that? Here's my colleague, Boric Air Condition, of course we will, so we won't be surprised that people under investigation can sit in HS. So why didn't you keep him in the government if you're good enough for HS, if you don't have a problem with him being investigated, why didn't you keep him in the government? And what criteria do not apply to the government, and they apply to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia the Croatian Parliament is stronger and stronger and should be that of the Government because it is its corrective. And we won't let you humiliate him like this. People under the investigation of the DORH have nothing to do in the Croatian Parliament, and we are glad to see that you have not even done anything in the Croatian Government because of the public pressure, as well as the pressure of the MOST and our proposal for the reconstruction of the Government. At least if our opposition MPs are asked, the Croatian Parliament has no fatter cheek than this government. The Croatian Parliament has not passed the prison and we opposition MPs, at least that part of the opposition MPs from the MOST club which is still there because I see that the opposition is largely unfortunately not there. We will not allow this humiliation of the Croatian Parliament and that you are putting us here in our ranks of those under investigation of the DORH. Feel free to keep them to yourself, they'll be in a far more famous society, they'll have far more topics to discuss with all those who are already in your ranks, and they have similar résumés. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106187	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ will have to look back on what you said as chairman. ... I'll have to, I'll have to. [[You can't hear it.]] A fellow Milosevic was elected to the Croatian Parliament and was not inserted as you speak. So he's a elected representative like everyone who sits here. So he has the right to decide what to do with his mandate and he will be a parliamentary representative. You can't stop it no matter what you say you're gonna stop something. That's the first one. The other thing is the presummation of innocence. I don't know what security you're telling me someone's gonna end up in jail. What are you? Judge? We are the legislative authority and we do not have the right to interfere in the work of the judicial authorities, so I would never dare to talk about how it will end what judicial procedure team is more than there are other agents who are in a similar or procedurally difficult situation than a fellow Milosevic, so I did not hear you react. But they've been chosen, too, and they can decide with their mandate what they want. So this is what I had to say to the senior MPs sitting here, their legitimacy and unacceptable messages that we're going to determine who's going to be in jail and who's going to be on the loose. What did you say I was lying? So listen to what you've been saying and don't say such ugly words, because then I'll start talking the same way, then it won't be easy for you. Here's your buddy, Grmo. Sorry, we've got Boric before. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106188	Thank you very much. Article 238, you've already said a lot, Mr. President, but I'll just add it. Mrs. Rasdic always presents herself as an intellectual and I can accept it. But when your colleague's lie is an acceptable moral size you don't want to be fenced on. If the public record of your colleague is something that you accept as something that is normal in this society, that you would judge people here at the beginning of a possible procedure and say that they are guilty you are not an intellectual. And you're still teaching these kids, you're teaching them wrong for political reasons, and that's certainly what this gentleman is forcing you to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106189	Thank you very much. Be my guest, Mr. Grmoe, in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106190	Article 238 has been injured. I will not enter this story about the guilt of Boris Milosevic, but it is clear that he is under investigation by independent institutions, not under investigation by counterpart Rasudic or anyone else. But here I will reveal to the Croatian public one exclusive. With the help of legal experts, I have revealed that the State Election Commission is assisting the ruling in violation of the law. According to the 1999 Law, members of national minorities I can only vote for one candidate, and they vote for three. [[The incursion of President: Comrade Grmoe, time is up.]] And it's questionable whether the SDSS's representatives are entitled to... [[The President's intrusion: You've run out of time, Mr. Grmoy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106191	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. You're getting a warning. Go ahead. [[Grmo raider: I will address the Committee on the Constitution.]] Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106192	This Regulation shall enter In a completely inappropriate way, President-in-Office of the Parliament, you interfere with a parliamentary debate that you should only manage and deceive the public because I have never said, in any word that Mr Milosevic has been convicted. I kept saying he was under investigation, which is a notorious fact. If anyone has convicted him and convicted him, then it is you, your government who has thrown him out of its ranks, and now puts him into the Croatian Parliament for which he is clearly good enough for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106193	Thank you very much. So, having someone under investigation is not a reason not to be a parliamentary representative that's one thing. And you mentioned repeatedly over the course of the debate that the Parliament was leading to prison by insinuating that this would be the final result. So you were very clear about what I warned you about. Here you are, colleague Rasdic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106194	Article 238 first of all, I have an objection to your way of holding a session. You said from the position of the chairman you'd say something. It's no business explanation, but you've made your point. I therefore urge you to answer the word and, as a representative, state your position and not usurp the authority of the chairman of this session to take a particular position on a matter. The other thing is, here's a very clear point. It is therefore suggested that the face and criteria of the Government are much thinner and more subtle than the Croatian Parliament Because then why don't you keep him in the government by respecting the presumption of innocence? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106195	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic. Let's move on with the debate. A colleague of Bačić's on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106196	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. This is what I was talking about even in the last term that there was a good parliamentary practice in the Croatian Parliament, which not we at the HDZ Representatives' Club, but above all from the Mosto's ranks changed in a way that, through the discussion of the MIP report, people, MPs who received the trust of their citizens in parliamentary elections, were then starting to question whether they were similar or not to be parliamentary representatives. Until a few days ago, at the meeting in HS, we heard from Mosto that the people were sovereign, that no one could be above the people, that it could not be HS, that if 1/10 of the electoral bodies had collected signatures for the referendum, that it was the will of the Croatian people and who they were representatives in HS who should dispute the will of the Croatian people. We have now heard here from counterpart Selak Rasdic that we MPs in HS should be above the same people who Mr Boris Milosevic chose to represent the Serb national minority in HS and that we should, by not voting this report which was submitted by the MIP, challenge the mandate and not allow Mr Boris Milosevic to do what was right for him in the general parliamentary elections in Croatia. It is absolutely inadmissible, Mr Milosevic has his mandate, he has his mandate, and what is important to me is that however we vote on this item of the agenda, be even against counterpart Rasudiæ, it is his mandate and he has the right, you cannot, nor I, by raising hands, challenge his mandate in HS until it is impossible for him by law and constitution. Therefore, you have no reason, no need, no right to call on others to violate the law and the constitution and to prevent a parliamentary representative from acting as the mandate he received in the elections. That's inadmissible. Not to say that the minimum of constitutional, moral, human behavior would be for us to be a representative to blame against whom an investigation is being conducted as a reason that he cannot be a representative in HS. It's against the constitution, it's against reason, it's against morale, and I'm asking you not to moralize, you're not any moral police in the Bridge, you're no moral police, because if you did, then you wouldn't make a public commitment that after the election you won't co-ordinate with any political party and that public record statement lasted you less than 10 days. Therefore, you are not invited to do so and I ask you not to do so, but more so at this point in HS as said by the president of the HS several of our colleagues who are burdened with the higher, worse if you want legal status in certain court cases and you are not bothered by it, and now you are here, you will now challenge the man who has been elected here in the elections that, that, to act his term as he decides and I am warmly hoping for the presummation of innocence on the one hand, on the other hand, the independence of the Croatian judiciary, and not wanting to interfere in any way in this procedure that Mr Boris Milosevic will show himself and prove his innocence and this and therefore warmly hope, because of him and because of all of us who are in HS we have now sworn to respect of the Croatian Constitution, that before you have voted about the government, you have asked me to insist on my representatives that someone who has become a minister, who has already made it possible to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106197	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106198	238th Insultation and Disdainment of MPs. My colleague Bačić said that people who were chosen here are questioned as no matter what the charges are, for some reason it is not good moral for the government, but it is good for the council, so I will visit Mr. Ivo Sanader who also had representation immunity and when he was running to Austria by car and when you returned millions of his black fund money in a bag, so why is he not returned to the assembly if it is such automation and if it is morally unquestionable. We didn't question the presummation of innocence, but how is it not good for the government, and it's good for the parliament, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106199	Thank you very much. Comrade Rasdic, you are being warned. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106200	He's been injured. 238, I also want to mean to the vice president, former Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, to prove his innocence, I have nothing against this man, nor do I wish him harm. But when you talk about the choice of representatives of the SDSS by the Croatian people, I warn you that from 1999. You have a law that you haven't changed to assist that election scam where you can vote for three candidates, and the law says for one. Milakovic may be sitting from another Serbian party here in the assembly, not Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106201	Thank you very much, you're getting a second warning now. Please don't do this, you have two warnings, one more and you'll lose your right of speech. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106202	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Rasdić was injured by an article. 238th Insulting MPs. I am proud of everything I have done in my life as a politician and as chief secretary of the HDZ. What I did, colleague Rasdic, was in accordance with the law and I'm proud of it. And as for your injuries to the Rules of Procedure, there's no charge against you, as you stated. No charges were filed against Mr Milosevic. It's not raised. ... No, it's, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'll ask him when he gets here, don't ask me. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] That's what you ask him. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić.]] It's all against him, [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]] There's an open investigation against him, that's an important difference. [[Agreement: Comrade Bačić, thank you, you get a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106203	But please, let me get this straight. In the government, when you're elected to the Parliament, you have the right to be in the Parliament. The government is already a second question, so it's not the same kind of question why someone isn't in the government, and in the Parliament, it's a completely separate problem. Now it's up to fellow Pupovac on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106204	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Boris Milosevic is on the news that USKOK has launched an investigation into his mandate at the disposal of the Prime Minister. Only by gaining political circumstances that has been determined by who is running the government, Boris Milosevic has been relieved of his membership in the government only today. Why? Well, because he's a man who doesn't want to be a burden to those he works with and doesn't want to create the impression that he wants that place where he works, to protect him from the law or those who are obliged to enforce the law or the legality. His return to the Parliament is his legal right. All those who claim otherwise don't tell the truth. Boris Milosevic does not return to the Parliament to compromise you who are here. Or in order for the Parliament, as one colleague says, to turn it into a prison lobby. Boris Milosevic returns here because he has a foothold in the law, because he has a foothold in the election results. And if you notice that anyone is protecting him in a way that is against the law, whether in the Parliament, or outside the Parliament, then rise up, protest and show it. If you see that he's doing something to take advantage of the fact that he's a parliamentary representative, to protect himself from the law, then at that moment reach for what is necessary. In a very short time, you will be able to raise your hand that there is no representative immunity that protects him from this process possibly standing before him. But Boris Milosevic, as each of us and each of the people outside this building, outside this House, has the right to be equal before the law. He has the right to protect his moral character. He has the right to perform the duty he's chosen to do. Those of you who feel that he has no right, be careful not to cross the line that some of your colleagues have already crossed by saying that he is excess in this House. Anti-law surplus. I understand that there are people in Croatia, we heard them today, we listened to them yesterday and the day before yesterday, by which Serbs are excess in Croatia. We are free of such policies, working with those who feel that such policies should be freed. We work with those who believe that there are too few people in Croatia and that we need new people, regardless of nationality. We work with those who will create a society of tolerance, not aggression, non-verbal abuse, non-pronouncement and hatred, as it has been today and in recent days. Why? Because you don't want one party in this House. He doesn't want the representatives of a nation in this House. Think about it. Will you justify tomorrow when a representative of the Croatian people enters Serbia and the government who will attack him because of you who are here as angry dogs headed for Serbs representing the Serb community in Croatia. Consider the few of you who easily lift your finger on Josip Aladrovic, Boris Milosevic, especially you who hired whom and when and whether he was a parliamentary representative of someone whom you may have asked for help to hire you. Then will you go to the polygraph, face the same team? Or you'll be undermining your tail as you know how to do. As for '99. Mr. and as far as the law goes, there's no law that says there can only be one representative. There's a law that says 1 to 3. In one term, it happened that the number was reduced from 3 to 1, and then when it was taken out of the political mind and it was seen that it was a mistake and that from the political mind for the country in which we live, for all its citizens it was necessary to create a tolerated and adequate atmosphere and to ensure that minorities were represented, to ensure that people had a normal life, that those who had avoided coming back not only had to have three not 13 as it was at the beginning of Croatian independence but three, but then decided to have other minorities Bosniaks, Albanians and various others had their place in the assembly. I am proud of the people with whom we have achieved this because we have achieved good for Croatia, nothing bad for Croatia. You colleagues and colleagues who have confirmed that you will not be with the SDP or the HDZ, so under strange circumstances during the night, you moved from one negotiating team to the other, and then you moved from one front page to the newspaper that you would be with the SDP, and then after 15 minutes with HDZ, you failed to end up with neither one, as you are now with anyone. You're not with anyone, you're not with yourself, you're not with yourself, unfortunately you're not. You jump at everyone and everyone you see to eventually get some kind of promotion of support in this public, angry people, you and another one in this country where instead of the atmosphere of order, the concentration that this country in European and world chaos doesn't get into a situation where there's no one to guide it in the right sense of that word. You just contribute to the creation of chaos, not looking for a solution, riding on things in a way that you won't ride anywhere like you've never been before. I'm sorry to have to tell you, many of you are young people, many of you are my younger colleagues from college, but this is how you make it impossible for a man to have his electoral right, that the right of the community that you represent is denying and challenging just because you're giving up the lowest passions, and at the same time you'd like to hear in Livnu what would be nice to people I want well, and that means equality with the other two people, but here you only sow hate, inequality, show, you're people like Furio Radin just said to you, you're not the people who are looking for the truth, you're the people who create an image, and that's all your problem. But to return to the scale of things, Boris Milosevic will be in the assembly, performing his post as he did and what he did in the government. He didn't do anything that didn't come out of his mandate, but anyone can suspect that, in the online circumstances, the legislator is different. That's the right of the legislator. And the right of all others, especially those to whom it applies, is to prove whether or not it was true. Let Boris Milosevic prove right or wrong along with other colleagues, you will certainly not judge him Because your judgments so far have been wrong. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106205	We now have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106206	Art. In 238, some insult this pay phone as angry dogs, and some will deal with arguments. Boris Milosevic is moving from the government to avoid being burdened with it, it is an honorable man's procedure and I support it, on the burden of asking about the metrics because he was picking lawns or because he was involved in the story of setting up competitions. But if this man really has moral credibility, how is it possible that he doesn't want to be burdened by the government, and he doesn't mind the same procedure burdening the assembly? Well, I'll fight here for the dignity of HS. [[Intruder President: colleagues Selak Raspoudić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106207	You're getting a warning. Here you go, fellow Raspadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106208	238, we never once claimed here that Mr. Milosevic had no legal right to return to the assembly, but the law was minimum moral. Some who threw him away long ago and forgot only mentioning morals was moralizing. The law had to be minimum. And here's what Mr. Pupovac says, I quote his words in this law affair that I quote "with this understanding of illegal action, the representative is a national minority is limited in carrying out their constitutional duty, caring for members of national minorities", so there's no need Keeping the law as a drunk float. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Rasdic.]] Here...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106209	Time's up. You're getting a warning, too. Now it's the SDP representative's club, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106210	It's a rare opportunity for a colleague and a colleague to speak in front of a room as full as this. More than average. There are countries where this kind of thing is done by the State Election Commission, so it determines who the representative is and applies the Law on Elections of Representatives. What is our mission here as HS is to determine whether it is legal for Milosevic to return to HS or not, and it is legal, it is legal. And I have a feeling that they want to be brought before moral blackmail to act illegally. What, then, would we be different from those who break the law if we break the law now? They wouldn't be different. There is likely to be a debate on the MIP's proposal to remove immunity to MPs who return to the assembly, and it is a criminal case against them, and it will be a time and place for any concrete case to be discussed here, only to determine that the law will be applied, even when we all voted against Boris Milosevic would return to the assembly because the Constitutional Court would say he must return to the assembly. Therefore, from an administrative debate not to say so in the administrative procedure which perhaps should not even be in the control of the plenary session, we have come to the debate on the foundations of the political system, we have gone far beyond to the Constitutional Law on minority rights, on the political action of those from the Most, and I quote one more, and there are more than one if you want to say so, etc. Therefore, it is unnecessary to look at the choir, looking at the sum of the debates and the injuries of the Rules of Procedure plus this one in terms of the essence of what we are deciding to discuss pointlessly, I have come to ask the president of the assembly to look at the surveillance cameras whether she white bag ended up there on Wednesday where the representative said either this or sprayed herself in the air, so there are some particles, as far as. So, we can agree that on every MP's report, we comment on why someone replaced someone and why someone didn't replace someone. So we can discuss the procedure of the former Deputy Prime Minister then, I mean, we can discuss it now, but we stuck to some unwritten norms when the debate on the removal of immunity comes. This is a debate about whether it's legal to go back to the assembly or not, and that's all it is. And this is usually a naive thought that a debate on a subject like this will raise the same attention Friday night as Thursday night at 21 p.m., it won't. Therefore, those who have taken this opportunity cannot give them moral lessons, but I also believe that we need to start acting a little more responsibly. So today we're going to vote for the Mandate-Immunity Commission report not because we think it's okay to be, and what we should be and what we're even deciding about to get someone back to the assembly, but because we are, because this time our mission is just to determine whether something is legal or not. If the law is bad, then we suggest to change it, and in this level of moral lessons I won't just go in there and try the same measure when it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106211	Okay. Let's move on, now the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have two warnings, so you won't be able to speak again if you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106212	Article 238, I must indeed respond to this wisdom and relativation of USKOK's accusations and bring about important, perhaps most important issues of Croatian Parliament's dignity to some technical procedure. It may be irrelevant to you, but the key question for me is whether such a person should not be legally confirmed in the Croatian Parliament but should have been suggested to return to the Croatian Parliament at all, and it is not good enough for the government precisely because of the same indictment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106213	Thank you, thank you very much. counterpart Selak Rasdic again claims the indictment is with Mr Milosevic. So, no, it's an investigation. It's not the same level and please, it's what you said again, please take care of it. I, as chairman, have to turn to you because this is where you really get into areas that are very sensitive. And you get a third warning you lose your right to speak. And just one more thing, I think it's important to know. So there are some, some norms, some agreements that we have agreed as parliament in these 30 and some years. So, when a representative returns to the Croatian Assembly today, the opposition may be against it. I'm going to ask you a question about when tomorrow someone from the opposition might be returning to the assembly what happens if the ruling is against it? He won't be able to go back to that logic. So I ask that we also make sure that you do not bring, that you do not bring, that you do not bring MPs and MPs into such a situation that because of your own actions tomorrow and the other side can respond in the same way because it would not be good and disrupt what I think is good and that we should safeguard as some, some legacy, some liquid of this assembly. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Jelkovac, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106214	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but since you have warned a colleague who, as an intellectual, still does not distinguish the indictment from conducting an investigation, I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106215	Thank you very much. A colleague, Furio Radin, will now speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106216	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to, it's not nice of you to leave, but this one I'll remember, I'll remember, you can't speak but you can listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106217	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let the Honorable Vice President go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106218	Thank you, thank you both for staying. I speak from the position of the man who has sworn the Constitution nine times in this assembly. So no one has sworn to the Constitution so many times in this assembly as I have sworn to the Constitution and I will vote for Mr Milosevic. When I spoke before Milorad, when I spoke before that this one was not interested in the truth of a certain group of people now we're not going to say any of which, I didn't mean everything, I was thinking of the one I caught once that in the cameras was saying that I had physically prepared myself for him, you can imagine. And I was behind him, and he was talking, so then we had a debar in front of the cameras. This isn't, here I agree with my colleague Bauk this time, this isn't even a political question, this isn't even a moral question, this is an administrative question. A fellow Milosevic has been elected to this assembly and is now coming back to this assembly. They, and unfortunately they left now, and I told them, and Mr. Rasdic pretended not to hear me, who had said before about a certain person who was Prime Minister and named Ivo Sanader had not returned to the assembly, I can confirm that he had returned to the assembly because we had lunch together then, he returned to the assembly. A fellow Milosevic of all the journalists I spoke to, watch out for journalists who are mostly looking for what is ticky, and not what is, I would say, commendable, all spoke well of fellow Milosevic. At our coalition meetings, everyone spoke well of his fellow Milosevic, but then you wonder why his fellow Milosevic is no longer in the government. The answer is what Mr. Prime Minister said. If it turns out there are no grounds in what the context is now so furiously saying, and I believe it will show itself then Boris Milosevic will return in some way to the assembly, I don't know which, but it will be decided by the prime minister. Boris Milosevic is a very honorable man in my opinion, I speak my mind, even this one will forgive me for speaking on behalf of the National Minority Club, but I believe, I know everyone thinks who I am. He's an honorable man, he'll prove to be an honorable man, and this story of which you're good here, you're not good there, I agree with the President of Parliament when he says here he's chosen by the people, here he's chosen by the people and as chosen by the people he returns to a place that belongs to a man chosen by the people. I just want to say that we calm down our passions, treat it like an administrative issue so that we don't get into confrontations that are meaningless, I don't want to discuss now why we're getting into these confrontations. I was in three terms in opposition, so I understand how the opposition works. I just want to say calm down, drop the ball, vote and go on weekends. Thank you. I don't want to discuss why we're getting into these confrontations right now. I was in three terms in opposition, so I understand how the opposition works. I just want to say calm down, drop the ball, vote and go on weekends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106219	Now she will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106220	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's all take a look together. There is one discipline that we have developed perfectly, which is not a sporting discipline, which is a mudbathing, and we are doing it neatly, and we are hitting on each other, and it's going better for someone a little bit worse, which we are all muddy in the end, and it's a picture that we provide to the Croatian public. Today there was a new Minister Filipovic. If I were him I'd ask myself justifiably if my God pulled me around all these networks, and look at them because he was sitting there listening neatly to all those injuries to the Rules of Procedure that we had given. All 151 parliamentary representatives elected to this assembly have been elected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have all sworn, once, twice, three times, but how many times we will protect the constitution and the law, not as we experience the constitution and the law, but the constitution and the law... So, the first time that everything we've been chosen for and some good practice when we're against them and we do something against them all together is going to collapse, who gives us the right to judge, which every month we're going to ask against which assembly representatives were possibly scouts, I'm talking about reconnaissances, and then we're going to judge who can be and sit in the assembly and who doesn't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, let's look at each other, look at each other, look at ourselves in the mirror, and let's just do what the citizens have chosen us for, the citizens and we have sworn to respect the constitution and to obey the law. There's nothing we can't make a big show of and a big mass of it, but let's not do it to the colleagues who have chosen it here with us, and they've sworn with us because tomorrow whoever guarantees that none of you will happen, who guarantees it, and then what are we going to say, then we're going to say something different. So, the constitution, the law, let's do our job, let's look at ourselves, there's no moral verticals, which are lines, where we're going to say that something is more or less, one way or another moral. My colleagues and colleagues, the first time we do that, we've actually embarrassed everyone together, this coat of arms behind me, the anthem we're all getting up on, and someone's holding hands on their hearts, and someone's watching the flag and everything else that we've been chosen and let's all get together, I think we should try to be responsible people, try to get serious, try to do our job and try to take care of it. So who's to ask who gives us the right to judge now or say you have the right to return to your bench where you were, and you don't, who has the right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106221	And let's go to the last final on behalf of counseling club of the Grmoi Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106222	Thank you. I wasn't very clear about this debate by my colleague Taritash, who until yesterday was yelling that we needed early elections because of government affairs, and now he's talking about not moralizing. So, since I didn't even moralize my discussion, I didn't even mention a fellow Milosevic, but I spoke in principle. And I want to take this opportunity, given that we are discussing whether a representative of the SDSS will return here to the constituencies, with a number of legal experts, I have actually analysed the legal proposals or laws that we currently have in force and came to the knowledge that the Law on Elections in the 1999 HS. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 77th no doubt stipulates that representatives of national minorities are voted in a special constituency in such a way as to vote only for candidates to elect representatives of the indigenous national minorities listed on the ballot and to round up the regular number in front of the candidate's name. I am stressing here that the legal statement in front of the regular number of candidates clearly points to the fact that the legislator had one candidate in mind, and the DIP all the time and above you have on the ballot for our citizens who belong to national minorities that they can round up three candidates who actually benefit from the SDSS because if someone might want to round up Mr. Pupovac might not want to vote for Mrs. Jeckov, and they round three candidates. This makes it impossible for representatives of other Serbian parties to be elected to HS because no one can guarantee me that it is for example. Mrs. Jeck's more popular example. from Milakovic or that SDP colleagues are running for someone who may be more popular who would get the votes of representatives of national minorities. This is a scandal of unprecedented proportions. I will address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, although ruling there have a majority when this agreement came and the number of representatives of national minorities has increased. The laws haven't been amended, if the laws had been amended, we wouldn't have had this problem. Since there's been this failure and why it hasn't been changed, I can't know, but it should definitely have been done. And as for this other, I will not question here the right of anyone to return to HS, but I will question the current legal provisions that allow certain voter fraud because if we have changed, we have increased the number of national minorities' representatives then it was necessary to amend the applicable legal provisions. And I'm surprised that neither the SDP nor the HDZ have noticed it so far, I'd say it was noticed, but it was deliberately assisted for some reason by the SDSS. So, I'm not saying anything here against members of the national minorities, though, but I even advocate other Serbian parties that exist in the Serb national Corps in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106223	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106224	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. I'm calling in an article. 238, I can't explain to Mr. Grmoy if he didn't understand the debate that I had, but I wouldn't want any discussion to involve pears, apples and women's bras. This is one debate, and trust with the government and vote of confidence is something else entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106225	I have to give you a warning. We now have two proposals for discussion or two applications, a colleague of Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106226	Thank you, Mr. President. It's about numbers, very much so I'd say unlemishly that we're making some sense. It was changing the number of Serbs in the assembly in 1392, three '95, one in '99. At the end of '99, and then there was the Constitutional Law, and the Constitutional Law said between one and three, and then there were new electoral laws, and in those election laws there were three. And even if it hadn't happened, it's possible because it says it in the Constitutional Law, which is elected as an organic law, which is superior to the Electoral Law. I want to say that because there was a lot of talk about it because it happened in the beginning of 2000. After a big debate, and after a big one, and if we want to fight with the government then, and it wasn't the government of the right center, the left center remembers it and eventually it's decided to be between 5, between 6 and 8 so it was clear right from the very beginning that it was going to be 8. I don't know where you get those numbers from, but it goes on already in a few choices without any protests from anyone, but it doesn't matter. I mean, it's absolutely legal, it's part of the constitutional law. I didn't understand what you're saying, not what you're up to and what you're up to, and what you're referring to is yes, and I don't know how... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106227	Don't throw away your colleague Grumo. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106228	Article 238, just to explain what's going on. I do not trouble or argue that representatives of the Serb national minority should not have 3 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I am talking about a law that speaks of the way of choice and I claim that it cannot be voted for by three candidates but only for one and that it can only be voted for one so that perhaps the composition or that other representatives of Serbs or at least one other representative can sit here in the Croatian Parliament. That's what I'm talking about. I think I've made myself clear now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106229	Comrade Grmoy, this is, a colleague of Grmoy's this was a replica you get a third warning and a colleague of Grmoy can no longer speak. Comrade Pupovac, final Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106230	Don't let your mouth deserve to be answered, but the ears that listen sometimes deserve to hear differently because things are different, not as they say. He can't learn that rule. That what he says is not true and only true and all the truth of this world as he presents himself. That's the way it is in this case. You cannot give up even though you are caught in a false intention to slander Boris Milosevic on the one hand, and on the other hand, to say that two MPs from the SDSS Club and the National Minorities' Club are illegally in session since '99. the year i.e. since 2003. Of course, you're not aware of what you're saying, and it doesn't matter to you. All that matters to you is to expand your hatred for coalition partners who are now making up most of them and then it is easier for you to get hold of the Serbs and the SDSS. You and a series of others. If that is how you intend to create free Croatia without corruption, you are, in fact, the greatest protagonist of corruption, political corruption. You corrupt people's spirits. You're dragging them into something that they should be freed from, but it hurts not to say what. The only thing that matters to you is to see what the site looks like on some portal and whether you'll be there. All that matters to you is to see what the polls look like and if you'll be there. And what's really going to be out of this country for that really hurts very little. Well, even if you have a little bit of it, it doesn't hurt either. Let me just say one more thing. Let you choose who and how to choose who in Croatia. One party is elected, the other party is elected. It's the same thing with representatives of national minorities. There has always been a pure preferential majority principle for all MPs and representatives of national minorities. Had you been guided and informed or asked those who sat behind you, you would have heard it. For MPs and MPs who are elected as representatives of the Serb community in Croatia, it is generally between 16, 17, 18 to over 20 and some candidates and candidates of independent lists and parties including a party of men whom you mentioned who for some reason would be more desirable to you than those of the SDSS. We don't know why. The party has been to the polls several times. And that candidate's been to the election several times. I don't know why you didn't decide when you already cared so much about him that you voted for him. The procedure is very simple. You go to the Bureau responsible for this, and if you're not listed as a member of the Serb community, you say I want to sign up as a member of the Serb community, I have special sympathy for a candidate or candidate and I want to vote for him, it will take maybe 24 hours after I get back where I came from, be who I really am, and it's very simple. And then there's no need to make sense of us here, to deceive people, to spread the hatred that along with someone who has a very serious mandate and the code Serbs supported in his mandate, spreads around hate towards everyone. And from a society of tolerance, it creates a society of hate. And from a society of debates on the things this society needs to discuss, it creates a society of pagan words. And instead of leading us, he acts like a man who doesn't have a compass himself, and so do you. If you think this country needs someone without a compass, not this country needs a serious compass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106231	We came to the end of the debate, so now we're going to vote. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to vote on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of representative Boris Milosevic and to suspend the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Anja Simpraga. Please, let's vote. 82 MPs and deputies voted in favour, a decision was unanimously taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And just one more decision, please, Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request to grant authorisation for the launch of a criminal proceedings against Bošnjakovic, a representative in HS. The debate is closed. I am giving a vote on the motion for a decision during the term of the parliamentary term, denying approval to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Drazen Bosnakovic at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Josip Vujčić. Please, let's vote. 79 deputies and MPs voted, all favoured, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you all. I'll see you Wednesday. Session interrupted at 14.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106258	Good morning, everyone. Good morning. - Final proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 217 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, meaning that amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stjepan Curaj, is with us. Would you like to take your word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106259	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, as told before us, is the final proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. The law, which has been developed with the aim of further harmonisation of the Croatian legal framework with EU rules, is specifically transposed by Directive 2019/2162 of the European Parliament since the end of 2019 with the aim of harmonising the fragmented market and creating an effective framework for covered bonds that are actually a significant instrument, as you will see from the further exposure of long-term financing of credit institutions. What it really wants to do right away in the core is that using these funding models actually only improves the way credit institutions finance and creates, in fact, models as a stable and cost-effective source of funding for credit institutions and ensures a high level of security for investors, which of course contributes to the development and market of covered bonds and development of the Union, the capital market. Transferred as ever when such topics are here before you always the EU after the financial crisis that was in 2008 and further goes in two directions by enabling more money circulation in the economy, by encouraging the development of the economy with the safest way possible. A safer way for someone who collects money, but also investors above all to avoid spilling over any other, based on any financial difficulties on the citizens. That's the basic goal we've been talking about here the whole time. So, parallelly raise security and raise the possibility of funding. The covered bonds themselves are a debt instrument of financing issued by credit institutions. They are secured by a special, special set of assets which ensures a high level of security that I have listed for investors. These are usually loans secured by housing or public sector loans to which the investor has the right to a championship in the event of insolvency of the issuers of covered bonds or credit institutions. In fact, this mechanism, in general, which, first of all, let's say with this main objective, which I said and the directives to protect, is to establish minimum harmonised rules at EU level, which opens up the possibility for us and our institutions through this model of fund-raising at EU level and vice versa to balance both the rules of the game and access to such non-small funding models. First of all, Europe is advocating in this form of funding. We need to know that when we look at the world market of covered bonds, over 60 and 63% are in euro. What matters is, as I said, that security that is manifested here through the dual protection mechanism. Why double protection? Because this implies that the investor has the right to claim against the issuer of covered bonds and assets for insolvency cover. Therefore, such assets that are created, which must be created before the launch of the publishing programme itself, shall be separated, obtained by its supervisor who manages it, and shall always ensure that it is liquid, and thus directly separated from any other assets of the credit institution for any other types of priority payments in the winding-up, recovery or any insolvency proceedings. Plus, of course, the publisher ensures that investors and other assets continue to be resembling. So, double level insurance. So first of all, high quality assets for cover must enter into the coverage set, most often as we have said are products and placed loans that have real estate insurance or residential loans, but can also be other forms of financial products or investments such as government bonds. The most common ratio is just about 90%, some countries have also limited that the minimum can be 85% or must be 85% of the product or loans, housing loans in the coverage set. What we also foresee here by law for those smaller banks, which is particularly interesting to us, and this is the possibility of joint financing, or a joint issue of covered bonds. So not just one institution, so it can be that each individual institution can do it in a more cost-effective way. What's also important and a lot of attention is that, all the time I'm saying that safety, of course it's just the maintenance and maintenance of the coverage set, so that manifests that the level of collateralisation must be 5% above the nominal placement. And above all, there must be a liquidity protection layer that, in fact, in order for the coverage pool to always have liquid funds to pay off the expected outflows over 180 days, so to service those loans themselves that stand in the coverage set. Of course, before I was granted approval, a supervisor appointed from the ranks of authorised auditors should give his approval as regards the very quality of the set for covering that there is sufficient in the rule of the assembly. And he's enrolling in a special register. Of course, as with any issue, there is no prospectus here, this is about the program. The prior opinion of the CNB should be established and the HANFA should then be submitted as a body that performs not only the approval but also further supervision. So all the time for the duration of this strict, so it's on a certain deadline that's being issued most often in the long term, it can be and the medium-term HANFA has two forms of supervision. One is indirect and direct or direct and together with the supervisor of the coverage set controls the composition and quality of what is actually self-collateral of all bonds, i.e. the issue of these bonds. What's really important, first of all, is the risk remains in the balance sheet. The banks here, let's separate from that securitisation. This encourages banks to invest more in housing, i.e. to issue and approve housing loans in order to obtain funds, we had Erste bank last year, which is for the sake of regulatory Marel of Requirements, or regulatory requirements, to issue bonds on the international market of 400m euros. Of course, these banks are able to make these issues as cheap as possible, with regard to the high level of protection, or security as possible, the less they have to make to investors precisely because of the lower risk, which is why the interest itself is lower. So they encourage investment in the housing market. It also encourages a part of the economy, thus also having the possibility of obtaining funds not only of its regulatory requirements, but also of opening up a great possibility of financing itself. Today, of course, that doesn't mean that everyone will do it right away, that's the thing where we are actually offering one diversification of the very source of the banking sector's resources, which is primarily the safest, most secure virtually on the market and that allows for further multiplier effect and, of course, opens a secondary market with these products and increases the capital market that we already know in Croatia is not at that level that we would all like. So, apart from transposing, we allow our credit institutions to be at the level of the Republic of Croatia and not only at the level of the European, their parent banks. I'm going to list some amounts here, but also at a level like we had last year's issue here, cheaper getting funds, more quality products doing placements to get into that coverage set. Because just short information, let's just say from these most important banks that appear on the Croatian market the biggest ones actually, let's say one Unicredit group has been through several programmes, so six programmes placed so 65 billion euros, Intesa Sanpalo 75, almost 75 and 74 through four different programs, Erste almost 20, Raiffeisen 3, OTP 2.2 etc. What I said was that this part was most developed as regards the EU, the Scandinavian countries, Germany, Spain, Portugal, the vast majority almost half of what, some little less debt amounts have over this actually product, that is, this model itself. It allows banks themselves to have less financing costs, to have better allocated and take care of their assets and their clients, so when we know that high-quality placements have to go into the coverage set, I give a mix of borrowing opportunities to diversify, so I can choose and, of course, go towards that larger securitisation. As for investors, investors in this can be the most common, I think it's financial institutions, banks, certain pension funds, for example. So this is one opportunity for our pension funds, but also other insurance companies and central banks that can self-financing. So, we are actually opening up one possibility for our credit institutions to move to the borrowing market with a safer, cheaper way and we are also opening up to our investors, but also, of course, to investors across the EU, one security of the investment itself. And what's most important about that security is to keep track of the composition of that cover set if one of them accidentally goes to the NPL, or to the difolt. They are replaced by others, so absolutely all the time they're forced by banks to take care of themselves and of course they're being monitored and they're increasing quality placements so that they can get extra funds right now and tomorrow. Here's the short list of questions. Of course, in the end and on behalf of the promoter, we will say that we accept the amendments of the Committee on Law on Articles 7 and 71.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106260	The questions will come immediately. Mr. Named Brumnic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106261	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Government is always there to expect the government to send someone who knows the subject best. I have to admit, I'm not going to say that you don't know the subject well, but I think Minister Paladin was a far better choice to present something like this, so I would ask you accordingly the difference between what you represent today and what has been on the market so far where our pension funds have lost 12 million of our money in bonds that the state has made possible, or that they buy them by claiming to be safe enough, while Mr. Paladin has earned 30 million at the same time on these bonds. So is something like this possible in line with this and what's the difference between the model so far and this one now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106263	Thank you. So this is about two total opposite different investments, here we're talking about the possibilities that only credit institutions have we're not talking about the issue of bonds of private companies or companies. Therefore, according to this model, it applies only to credit institutions, so this model for investors is a far larger range and especially to pension funds. The peace funds have three types of investment opportunities, we know A, B and C, we know their risk and certain yields, we know by which rules strictly operate and pension funds themselves, and we draw out one investment that may not have been paid apart from more of those in that A investment group should be monitored at the average level and at the level of annual results. This is the second pair of gloves, if I may say so, this is about how banks provide money and how future investments will be protected, as well as banks, to provide a larger flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106264	Thank you. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106265	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Before I ask the question, I would like to thank you and a respected colleague who you are representatives of the ministry for not being easy to prepare such a law, regardless of what anyone thinks about it, so the bottom line is that there is actually a new product in the capital market in Croatia, so we didn't have something like this. However, what interests me is the next thing, the issue of supervision, which is that these properties will be placed on or bonds covered by real estate or some property will be placed on the capital market, but this credit or that background can come into certain risk, so I am purely interested in the supervision of the HNFA itself, do you see certain risks, given that it is not the very formal preparation of the law itself but its implementation and, above all, the protection of our consumers and the protection of all market participants? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106266	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106267	Absolutely because this is extremely important and in the very name of this law is about the issue and the public supervision of covered bonds and when you look at only the structure of the legal proposal in front of you from 71 of Article 18 talking about the issue, and the rest up to 71 talks about supervision, so 2:1 and more is the ratio of what we have prescribed here in terms of the issue itself and then what after. Two models are surveillance, primarily all publishers are obliged to regularly report to the supervisor or specifically here is the HANF about the state of cover and the state of the product itself, of course we also have that independent supervisor meeting that works parallelly on liquidity and maintaining what is behind these bonds, which is, in fact, the most important part of course and we have indirect controls where in cooperation and with the CNB as a regulator who normally controls banks are at one half-year level They are currently monitoring and quality of this placement. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106268	Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106269	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State. So, this law takes over Directive 2162/2019 and for the first time we create a legislative regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia on the issue of covered bonds as some new financial product and, of course, their public supervision. It is undeniable that the investment of financial assets in covered bonds for investors is securely paid because the investment is secured by the allocated assets entered in the insurance register. I wonder if we have any idea what the interest of credit institutions is at the placement of this new product, and I would ask if time allows for further clarification of the new role or the expanded role of supervisors of the event? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106270	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106271	Thank you. So, we can read our own interest from the data that I said about current placements and opportunities as it grows over the years, not just in Europe, which was practically the only one with this kind of funding system in 2005. When the crisis came, others saw and that is what very briefly I can only point out to illustrate, the 20 credit institutions that went into crisis during the past financial crisis, who had these covered bonds all the way up to one were liquid and secure for that investor. So, it has already fallen drastically in 2019, I think, drastically, by over 10% of those 100% in 2005 from European markets came to 80 percent in total, I said that the euro is over 60%. As far as supervisors are concerned, he is a new concept, he absolutely has the goal of forming and monitoring and maintaining that protective layer and liquidity for all future outflows of the set itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106272	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106273	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. You have also pointed out, and it should be noted once again, that the actual issue of such covered bonds is produced and implies high costs of initial costs that often smaller banks cannot bear on their own. So, the law stipulates that these banks can then be joined together and thus actually create more significant capital, but also more significant security because it is just as important in what you said that this joint financing is and that this liquidity layer is significant and it is within the law itself and envisaged for at least 180 days. Here's what would be good if you pointed that out one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106274	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106275	Yes, if I can, then, just above that is precisely what is recognized in terms of the size of our markets and our banks, at the very issuing and cost of issuing a program, what would be said in the people not to be more expensive than the pie of the Tepsia, therefore, and thus not to distract it from this safer possibility of investing and turning into something more risky for our credit institutions is the condition and the possibility of no longer being, not two but even a few credit institutions joint association, which is formally one credit institution issuer, and the other or more of them selling assets that will actually be used for cover, therefore absolutely not only the risk is allocated in accordance with the participation, but thus allowing for a cheaper access to this programme and this system. As for the collateralization, therefore, and everything that is issued if it is a billion, 500 million, it must be 5% more in the set for covering the properties themselves and certain other insurance instruments than this 180 days you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106276	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106277	Thank you. From your exposure, I point out that here the aim is to encourage investment to also achieve bond security as one credit instrument where real estate is a means of insurance. I believe that you are well aware of the case of Minister Paladin, which the bonds, the company where he was chairman of the management of IGH, acquired at the time when both banks and pension funds gave up and when their value was so-called. Jung, then on the basis of these bonds, acquired a 19.4 million kuna claim on which he can count when selling real estate in Split. In this law, I do not see a single step in which bearers and bondholders and investors are protected from situations where, on the basis of privileged information, someone almost unlawfully obtains disproportionate property benefits. If you have any knowledge of how protection could be achieved here without new Paladins, I ask you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106278	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106279	Okay, I think I answered the same thing previously to the distinguished representative Brumnić, so these are two absolutely different things just called the same thing, so the different publisher, different legal frameworks under which they are issued and different conditions. When companies that are listed do so, especially those listed on the market, they must follow certain conditions and of course these issues that you raised are no longer for me, perhaps for someone else. And as far as this way of ensuring here is absolutely assured that it can't come to any manipulation I don't know what information is the program itself and the set-up itself for covering which banks provide the placement of the bond is transparent in both the way and the work of both the supervisor and the supervisor himself of the coverage set and the HANFA, so these are the two separate I would say the world. It's simply incomparable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106280	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106281	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear secretary, you know for a fact that the Croatian citizens currently have about 250 billion kunas standing in the banks, and instead of actually fertilising that money, they are actually losing it, and they charge more of this and the cost of banking, banking and bank accounts, and that's what's being charged. Now, in this law, there is no possibility that, or not mentioned, these bonds are being invested by our fellow citizens. Can you please tell me what's the obstacle for citizens to get involved in this, our citizens because they have money, and right now they have a minus because they keep that money in banks. Since this bank is the same bond issue, wouldn't it be normal to allow those savings to invest that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106282	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106283	I appreciate the question. Yes, we are absolutely aware that it will be of great interest to invest in such security instruments, given the inflation that is and which eats the price, they eat the value of money. Citizens here can indirectly invest through certain investment houses, which, in fact, are only possible in terms of not law so much as the fact that it is large editions that are hundreds of millions of euros, so the programmes themselves are thus made. When it moves into publishing, it is known who is applying, who can be and what are the conditions for someone to say so at the table at all, that table cannot be of a hundred thousand people, but that 99.99% of people can participate in such publications through certain funds that we talked about in the Capital Market Act, and directly and indirectly in their pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106284	Thank you. Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106285	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here I commend this law, is definitely necessary for, for our financial system, but here's one question I'd like to ask. We are all aware that the money in this previous period has been abundant, what our financial system says, but one of the objectives of this law is to finance the economy. So by the fact that the money was abundant, we were also aware that it was getting harder and harder to get to it. Whether this instrument will therefore relax the double protection of bank decisions when they decide on it, for the realisation of this instrument and their decision to make it easier for our businessmen to come to capital and to realize their business ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106286	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106287	Here I thank you, that is absolutely one of the additional options that banks now have in front of them to serve their obligations, but above all, their plans, so with certain other funds and capital allocations, but also the obligations which the regulators suggest this gives us an additional opportunity which, according to the product, is, in a way and complicated and demanding, but most secure and guarantees the lowest cost of the bank, therefore one is not only without which a bank that has no quality adequate, adequate products to form a quality coverage set unfortunately will not be able to reach the secondary market and will carry out certain operations and move towards such quality products, so to buy certain discounts from other banks or certain government bonds in order to obtain it and thus generate additional benefits with the possibility of receiving money and financing the economy which is the objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106288	Thank you. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106289	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. What are bonds, and what are stocks we know. That bonds are worth debt securities and shares are equity securities. To simplify, simply bonds represent the lending of money that later fully returns to the bondholder increased by interest. Who can make bond emissions? These are state institutions not to list, but they can also be stock companies that come in such a way as to obtain the funds needed for business without changing the ownership structure. Please, what happens to extreme inflation and whether stocks can be issued today without cover, which we have in the past had an opportunity to see, say, when the Ucka tunnel was built. It's probably the vice president's memory or some other state-owned firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106290	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106291	Thank you. You meant bonds without cover. Therefore, when issuing any securities, i.e. debt instruments contained in them and debt instruments, a particular prospectus is produced, here is called a programme that requires the approval of the competent authority, that is, the HANFA in particular when it comes to stock companies where information is placed for investors on the risk itself. What does it mean about riskiness itself? It means what stands and which guarantees the safety of the investor. What's behind those bonds? How are investors protected? The larger the amount of property behind it itself, the kind of mortgage you place when you raise an ordinary loan, the lower the debt price because the risk, the risk element, is lower. So here we're only talking about what credit institutions are, this isn't about any stock company, companies can't be in debt under this law. This is just specifically designed for credit institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106292	Thank you. And Mr. Bartulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106293	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In principle, I support every shift that will help bring our capital market back to life. But I'm interested in something else. You've talked a lot about risks, about trust, about capital markets. In the latest show of our bonds here a few weeks ago we see what the situation is and that actually the capital markets do not have great confidence in Croatia. The conditions are much worse than just a few months ago, so I'm wondering if you can comment on that. So, according to me, the interest rates are higher than the ones Greece is in debt to. Well, I know it's not strictly this subject, but I'd appreciate it if you could comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106294	Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106295	Thank you. Yeah, a few weeks ago, we finished refinancing. Of course, above all, global uncertainty affects the capital market. What is important and what encouraged us to think that the interest we were taking in the placement of the new Bond was multiplely greater than what we announced. So with that we raise, we show the financial market itself the investor's trust in our bond and that's one of those indicators that's equally important, I can't say more important than the very prices we've achieved, and the price is curient on the market that is. So, uh... which is sufficient for a country, quite low and differences are there in several base points, a maximum of a dozen base points from country to country as regards similar credit risks, i.e. investment ratings themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the market is challenging and the time of cheap money is clear behind us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106296	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Before we go any further, a brief notice. Since by the number of speakers reported, the debate is likely to end early. I'm sorry, we'll start at the end of this debate, discuss this point. So, I would ask you to inform the clubs and colleagues who intend to speak that they will be able to speak immediately at the end of this point to prepare themselves. Do the club representatives, the club reporters, the board of pardons want to speak? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first Mr. Troscott to speak for the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106297	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples who are with us here and follow this debate. Although there may be no formal connection of any kind to the Paladin case and since it was, I didn't mean to talk about it, but since it was touched through issues and since the name itself, therefore covered bonds are also related to this law and also to what was happening to the capital market. So, I think I'm bound to go back to that topic and send some messages. As for Paladin himself, so it's a top-of-the-line mechanic, that's a top-notch mechanic who I don't know if he can look his mother in the eye of what he's done and how he can look at us, so all of us who have our money in pension funds and pensions, but the more it applies, so to all of us who are waiting in the future, so that pension that should be paid to us. Before I return to the pension funds themselves, it is not truly clear to me how Prime Minister Plenkovic could have taken a person from himself as the first partner to damage the fund, the NEK Fund means nuclear electricity directly linked to the Ministry of Economy and if the nuclear energy storage service is at a bad level, you can freely contact Paladina who damaged the fund for some eight million kunas and if you find that direct fund that fills the Croatian budget of the person you take as your main partner then there is something not good in that rotten state of Plenkovic-run Croatia. So, where's the link? The link is that, apart from pension funds that I will touch, the owners of these bonds were both commercial banks and Croatia insurance as a company. And that reminds us of this situation where they gave money to IGH and that money was covered with real estate in Slavonski Brod and Split. And what's dr. Paladin? So, Paladin uses privileged information as the chairman of the IGH administration knowing that the pension funds that have damaged us and him through them will lower the price and sell it be careful to justify what pension funds are giving, we felt long-term procedures would be needed. Since when is the retirement fund manual problem? Well, at least she's not questionable with pension funds. So, the reduction in the price by 75% of the damage to all of us, this mechanic buys these bonds, or shares to collect the property that he made in his credit card worth 30 million kuna PricewaterhouseCoteper auditory house found or did an estimate of the value of the property, by the financial statements worth 70 million kuna, which means you're already looking at to earn 40 million kuna at the expense of pensions. So how come you're not ashamed? And that person that one of the resolute ministers was brought in. Why? To use his position to position himself on real estate. The second thing, in terms of supervision, here is that the CNB and HANFA and, above all, the HANFA will lead to the supervision of this new financial instrument and it is a legitimate issue for us here, but also for citizens who ask this question through us here, how will HANFA and HNB conduct supervision of the financial system if they are not able to monitor or internal control them themselves? Because I have to remind myself of the fact that certain leading structures, certain political exposures created by political trade, came to the leading positions of the Vice Governor, so they bought bonds on privileged information. It is not yet known whether or not, but how these institutions will exercise supervision if they are not able to conduct supervision in their institutions, and this is a very delicate subject since we should not evaluate the period of the financial crisis in 2007 and the eighth year when we know what happened to the bonds and loans when everything went downhill. Furthermore, the CNB, or all of these leading institutions, did not warn in time about the silenced negatives. There will be some lex legions all by law, so it was by law, but our citizens are suffering who ended up in a quiet minus in one slavery, credit slavery, and no one cares about those citizens. Everyone's been silent for one moment when we're in a situation where citizens just cramp and no one warns of such a situation. And now we expect that the institutions will oversee this ticklish theme. As for the CNB itself, it was said, therefore, that the risk in the bank's balance sheet is correct, until it is sold to the claims agencies that have been properly involved in this Paladin case. And then these same agencies sell these properties to leading people, or vice governors, no less than the CNB overseeing these financial institutions. Well, you don't know who's crazy anymore. Furthermore, as regards the buyer of the bond there is the same problem, at least on the side of the Bridge that the buyer of the bond can be the CNB. The German Constitutional Court, although the situation is different because the bond was launched by the German government, but it actually came to the same because the risk was then brought by the CNB and the central bank in 2020. A decision which, in German financial legal circles, I call solange bis, as long as. Thus, Germany's constitutional court does not decide that bonds can no longer be purchased from the German government within the German government within Germany, so these were bought with bonds and governments and inflation was created at euro area level. And this is a similar situation with an even greater risk actually because when the government gives you a bond then the government of the Republic of Croatia guarantees that bond. At this point, it will actually be found that the commercial bank will sell to a bond that has a collateral mortgage and then buys the CNB and the CNB as a central bank takes the risk. We're not up for it. The third situation, a high risk at least from the financial situation, that one minister who has been charged with crime by his own deputy is now being appointed or announced to be governor of the CNB and now imagine a combination, such a person taken over the governor's seat of the CNB, plus another Vice Governor who is nothing but a political exposition of trade policy, therefore such a combination in such an entire situation will lead to inflation. Yes, because I honestly don't think Coric can run the central bank of Croatia, he can't run it. And it's a shame that such a person is incriminated and accused by his own criminal associate to be placed as a gift in that position. Now, as far as this law itself is concerned, he's not as bad as he is in the sense that the Croatian financial system is getting another financial instrument. What's gonna be on the side of the market? The market will then decide whether someone will enter into such a one, one such financial transaction or purchase of such a bond that will be covered by neither less than with mortgage loans at the most. However, we cannot not make these risks and be blind to them because we will again meet in certain affairs because those already under the burdens of the affair will take over those same institutions that will lead such transactions. Two, it's not that it's an invisible practice of selling real estate bonds, so it's something that's invisible in the Republic of Croatia and that people like that are run by resolution ministries. And there was a true colleague, here was supposed to be Minister Paladin to explain to us how he mechanically draws money from pension funds and from nuclear power funds directly linked to the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what you can see through a law like this. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106298	Thank you very much. Mr. Named Brumnic, will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106299	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues, I will no longer touch Minister Paladin and my remarks that he is the best bonder and that he should actually propose this law, I don't think he should have proposed it, and the real man has done no good in his life except for himself and then quite hard to present this kind of thing well. As the promoter said, after 2008, Europe tried to learn something. She tried to learn that organized systems function better than unregulated ones, that higher levels of security mean greater sustainability of the economy. And when you look at this law that was actually passed in 2019 at EU level in a completely different convulsion of the economy than it is today, this law was something good, acceptable and a man would say logically. When you look at it from today's rakurs, then you ask yourself, is it really an increased insurance of money in circulation good for both the European and our economy? That's something that's pretty hard to answer to. To say that our banks don't have liquidity sources or that they don't have money is completely incorrect. A colleague here said one thing, and I don't even know how to say it, this is a cheaper way to get their money. Citizens give them their money on interest savings from 0 to those who hold it for a very, very long period of up to 0.2%. Or if you're very lucky, then you get 0.25%. And these bonds won't be issued with interest less than 2-2.5% sure, so I'm asking you how that's 2.5% less than 0.2% and 0, respectively. So this is where one, one question arises whether the banks need this money in the first place, or how they're going to get to the collateral. I asked a simple question on the board, and this question is whether the collateral comes from Croatia as it will be in Croatia, as the Croatian banks will issue or are the only financial institutions are able to issue it under the supervision of the CNB and HANFE or the colteral can come from outside. The collateral can come from the outside. Who can buy that? A fellow Troscott just told the CNB one of the buyers of these bonds. Somebody explain to me why the CNB would be willing to put the money it has into circulation through these bonds, not directly in agreement with the banks. It's completely illogical and pointless to me. The fact that the CNB or the central bank reacts on the market at the moment of any earthquakes makes sense to me and, among other things, the service has shown that our CNB has not fulfilled that function. So I also find it very difficult to agree that the investment of the CNB in these bonds is something good, and then I ask myself whether one of the vice governors in charge of this investment will be that TC minister who will become the vice governor of the TC. So then looking at how he worked in the past to conclude that in a similar way he would work in the future, and then all that the proposer put out well on this will actually become very questionable. I say once when we talked about securitisation behind this speaker, I said practically anything that comes from Europe is better taken care of than we are because, therefore, it should be supported. I say in 2019 Europe knew why this brings and the day today is to have this law is actually better than not to have it, and what is the question in which we will use it. HNB surveillance and HANFA surveillance over these jobs should be in the interest of the state, it's the key thing here, I say talk about here, here, it's all about risk and nothing more. Who takes a certain risk? It turns out that banks are taking all the risk, and it's not true at all, it's being taken over by citizens who put money in those banks. So citizens who have deposited their money in banks do not have the right to withdraw their money from the bank and put it in this bond at 2% but are forced to keep their money at 0 to 0.2% interest, and on the other hand, financial institutions will create new money between themselves with 2 and more percent interest. So I call on the motion that when monitoring is carried out that this surveillance is done by looking at the interest of this society, and the interest of this society is not that what is on many other laws is that the risk belongs to us, and the profit belongs to someone else. Whoever's willing to risk it, I agree that he has the right to profit, but it's illogical that society takes the risk, and ultimately society is behind these banks because we're going to pay for the insurance savings, etc. If the bank's playing across the border and they're gonna pay off a fund that's filled with banks from the money they took from us again. ... If they do, if they do, then I guess I'm allowed to answer. [[Clip intrusion: Not allowed... not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106300	It's not allowed in that case either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106301	I apologize, speak to them because they got in, not me. I can say everything I think needs to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106302	The Rules of Procedure give me the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106303	...to interrupt me in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106304	No, yes, not just to talk to the MPs, you wrote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106305	No, I didn't write it, if I'd written it, I wouldn't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106306	Let's move on, let's move on, it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106307	Okay, so, let's simplify. This law should be supported because it regulates a particular area. What's practically not on us representatives, but on the government, and it's a very similar thing I said when we talked about the Rehabilitation Act, it's up to the government to prove they're going to implement it. Here it is de facto for the government or for those who control financial institutions, which is the CNB and HANFA in this case, to exercise control over this law so that this law benefits the Croatian state, Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy, and not to serve to get the money out of the system, not to serve as a means of taking the risk of killing third parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106308	Thank you, too. Mr. Anton Kleman HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Here is the final proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. This final draft of the law continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquiss of the EU and the directives mentioned earlier. So this directive aims to create an effective framework for covering bonds at EU level as previously said, so not only in our therefore Croatian financial market but in the EU as a whole and to harmonise the currently fairly fragmented market with covered bonds, which would contribute to the development of covered bonds across the EU. This is particularly important for us in Croatia because there is currently no market for covered bonds, bonds, so that this law will regulate this area and we hope that financial institutions will also show interest in launching such financial instruments so that they can provide quality capital for the development of the Croatian economy. This new legal framework at EU level will contribute to increasing cross-border capital and investment flows, thus contributing to the Union's capital market and further exploiting the capacity of credit institutions to provide support, as I said to the real economy, as well as making credit institutions more secure and effective funding instruments available. Therefore, covered bonds are debt instruments issued by credit institutions and secured by a separate set of assets or by a coverage set to which investors in covered bonds have a direct right as privileged creditors. So what the Secretary of State said earlier would say would be one of the safest instruments to issue a bond financial instrument on the market and have one, one pool therefore for coverage which is considered to be the most secure on the financial market today and as such have practically double protection and through, through itself to the greatest extent of residential, residential loans of banks, but also one part in the percentage for the allocation of liquid assets that must not be this less than 5% all the time. Therefore, investors in covered bonds have at the same time the right to demand from a credit institution which is the issuer of covered bonds that the creditors in the ordinary procedure such double demand relating to the coverage set and the issuers are called the double protection mechanism. Covered bonds are an important and effective source of funding for credit institutions that enables credit institutions to grant not only larger but also secure loans, which is one of the reasons why bonds have achieved good results during the financial crisis compared to other financing instruments. Covered bonds also played a key role in the financing of credit institutions during the global financial crisis as they maintained a high level of liquidity security. Therefore, according to the final proposal of this law, covered bonds can only be issued by a credit institution as previously referred to as the seat in the Republic of Croatia which has received the approval of the covered bond scheme from the HANFA under which covered bonds are issued. The final draft of the law prescribes double protection of investors, in covered bonds in such a way that the issuer is responsible for all its assets for the payment of covered bonds and covered bonds are secured by a coverage set, i.e. by means of assets issued by the issuer, from which investors and covered bonds have the primary right to collect their claims in the event of recovery or forced liquidation of investors in covered bonds do not have the right to early payment, i.e. investor's claims, and covered bonds are due in accordance with the contracted deadline, and are paid together for cover. The assets eligible for covered bonds shall be separated from other assets by enrolment in the coverage register and shall thus be legally enforceable from all other assets of the issuer. The final draft of the law provides for the possibility of joint financing which is important in the context of small credit institutions as previously mentioned, as it is possible to issue covered bonds in such a way that several smaller credit institutions can pool their assets to cover covered bonds, while the issuer is one credit institution. So, the possibility of accessing this financial instrument and less credit institutions in some way as a single issuer union opens up. In addition, the appointment of supervisors of the coverage set to carry out specific tasks with regard to the quality of the eligible assets and to ensure compliance with the coverage requirements is envisaged. In view of the importance of the supervisor of the meeting for the coverage, the final draft law sets out in detail the conditions for its appointment, the procedure for appointment, as well as its rights and powers. It shall also be prescribed to maintain the coverage set in such a way that all liabilities covered by covered bonds must be covered by the claims arising from the assets included in the coverage set. The covered bonds may be issued as covered bonds with a fixed maturity or covered bonds with an extended maturity but only in the case of a forced liquidation or recovery procedure. So, as has been said before, a large part of this new law is covered by surveillance articles, so there is again this double insurance and supervision very important part of the law where it is defined, so HANFA as the competent authority for supervision but finally can participate in this supervision, i.e. providing and giving consent to the issuers and involving our bank, and HANFA is the one that makes the most sure that everything is in line with this law that we are going to adopt today. In order to ensure a harmonised exercise of public supervision of covered bonds, the final draft of the law provides that HANFA shall work closely with the body carrying out the supervision of credit institutions, with the resolution body, and with the authorities in the coercive winding-up procedure. Therefore, in the process of obtaining approval for the covered bond scheme, it is important to point out that the credit institution which intends to issue covered bonds is obliged to submit a request to the CNB for a preliminary opinion on the business plan to be regulated and determined by the issue of covered bonds and, after obtaining a positive previous opinion, the credit institution is obliged to submit a request to the HANFA for the approval of the covered bond scheme. Finally, the final draft of the law regulates for the first time the legal framework for the development of the market for covered bonds in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to increase the safety for investors and create new opportunities on our market. The introduction of covered bonds in the Republic of Croatia will act positively to strengthen the entire domestic capital market. It is important to note that this final proposal for a law establishes a national legal framework for covered bonds that will be harmonised at EU level, which is also important in the context of the Union's capital market and the achievement of a single market, thus increasing its competitiveness and directly enabling further growth of the economy. The Croatian Democratic Community club will fully support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106310	Thank you, too. Ms. Dalia Oreskovic, Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106311	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. What is this law about? On the issue of covered bonds and on public oversight of covered bonds. I'm already texting, the very title of this law suggests that the only thing that we need to discuss here is Minister Ivan Paladin's case, and I'll explain why. Because the credibility of the government does not stem from the text of the law even when the text of the law itself is generally good., A lot of beautiful things are written in the provisions of our Constitution, so we do not follow them and we do not respect them in practice, they are not respected by parliamentary representatives, they are not respected by the Government, and a lot of what could be considered anti-constitutional can be found and in the conduct of the president of the state. The credibility of the government also comes from the extent to which it is written on a paper, so it was the Constitution or the law that we can see that it is being implemented and implemented in practice and therefore you cannot escape from the case of Ivan Paladin. We are talking about a minister who entered the government, so he entered the government, didn't commit a crime in his term, so the USKOK investigates and arrests and replaces him from the ministerial chair. We are talking about a man whom the Prime Minister proposed, and the parliamentary majority supported after having previously cheated or faked the terms of the criminal law, but played his business partner, damaged pension funds, and thus also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that he bought bonds on the basis of privileged information when they were practically nothing, and then obtained a claim worth 19.4 million kuna that he would charge by selling property that was once owned by a company he had headed for 3 years as the chairman of the administration. Such a government, such a resolute ministry, has no legitimacy to propose laws that allegedly protect investors and the capital market because no one trusts such a government anymore. As Parliamentarians, we have nothing to discuss or discuss about such a law but we should say that you no longer have the right to propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106312	Thank you, too. And Mr. Josip Begonja will represent the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives. It's over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106313	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, today through the presentation and discussion heard the opinions and views of the promoters of the assembly clubs and here on behalf of the HDZ Club, and on behalf of the Final Proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, I will say that for the first time a new instrument, a new financial product, is being introduced in our portfolio of financial instruments. I have no intention of repeating everything that has already been said here, and at least of the Minister Paladin some have taken you for granted. I will say basically that these are medium and long-term debt instruments issued by credit institutions. The issuers shall have the possibility to issue covered bonds with a strict maturity or with an extended maturity period in the event of forced collection, forced liquidation or recovery of the issuer. Since there was no legislative and regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia that would allow the issue of covered bonds to be made in order to take over the EU acquis, we are transposing Directive 2162 from 2019 and thus creating a framework for the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. It is important to note that one of the reasons why covered bonds are a secure instrument is that the assets are separated from other assets of the issuers of covered bonds and cannot be part of the liquidation mass of the issuers or may be subject to the settlement of other issuers' creditors. This property shall be entered in the register of the coverage set, and the authorisation to register and delete from the register shall be carried out by the supervisor of the coverage set which shall continuously verify that it meets the set of conditions provided for in this final proposal of the law. The Joint Supervisor is obliged to report both the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The second reason is that for covered, the covered bonds are a secure instrument is also the supervision of their release. The competent authority for the supervision of their issue is already as stated by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, and the supervisor is hereby obliged to provide information to the Croatian National Bank in the event of forced liquidation to the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. It is also important to point out that the credit institution which intends to issue credit bonds is obliged to submit a request to the CNB for prior consent to approve a business plan that regulates and determines the issue of covered bonds. After obtaining prior consent, the credit institution is obliged to submit a request for approval of the covered bond programme. Finally, this bill also provides key advantages for the economy in terms of responsible lending, high credit liquidation investment, ensuring availability of housing financing for private citizens, a cost-effective source of foreign investment as well as the development of the local market. Finally, this final proposal for a law shows that the applicant adopted certain remarks and proposals and opinions made to the first reading of the law in order to improve the clarity of certain provisions of the law itself. And as said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this government's Final Proposal for a Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106314	You, too. And Mr. Zeljko Pavić in front of the Social Democrats Club, finally too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106315	Dear Chairman, secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for this brief debate just because I didn't get the right answer from the secretary why he didn't allow our fellow citizens and our bank savings to invest their money directly in such bonds. The answer that this is enabled over, through funds is not an answer. Why isn't the answer? Therefore, if we are members of a fund, if we join a fund, we do not know which bonds or shares will be invested or depends on which risk is included in a particular fund, whether the risk is small, medium or large to invest in bonds or also in shares. However, if the government, if the Ministry of Finance thought about the fact that when a person is registered, some bonds that are covered, and it has to be reported, did not last for 2 days, given that the application should be made to the People's Bank, given that there is a need to sign up and everything else, when it would be possible to open up funds for the purchase of those shares, then it would allow our fellow citizens to buy, pardon the bonds, then allow our fellow citizens to join that fund and know exactly what bonds will be made and that their funds are safe. Don't forget, don't forget how many of our fellow citizens lost money in bank funds. Banks opened funds, then invested, citizens didn't know where that money was being invested, and the value of the fund was falling and today they have losses up to 75%. And this is for sure, that's where citizens are not allowed to invest and that's the problem. That's what I asked Mr. Coric to explain to me, this isn't an explanation. Since the application process itself takes a long time, given that there should be risk management in the bank, the system only for that part of the job, I think it would be good and good quality to allow our fellow citizens to invest directly in these bonds over, it could be an intermediary, but a fund that will exclusively buy these bonds and then the money is safe. Because if we join a fund, we don't know what bonds will be bought and we don't know what revenue will be. We're safe here, we're sure the money won't get lost. But with a law like this, who gets a profit? Who's making money? They earn institutions, and if you remember the debate we had last time it was, when it was, in the first reading, then it was said that actually everyone who had invested in the one, the bonds from Ersta Bank, were actually all foreign investors. Now, the question is, is it in our interest for the money to come to Croatia and they to collect the percentages they need to collect from interest or is it in the interest that our citizens, our citizens, that money... which are currently in savings, and I said earlier, we currently have an surplus of about 250 billion, which is more than 30 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't believe any of these bonds will be more than 500 million euros. Therefore, money exists in Croatia, it is owned by our fellow citizens and we need to enable them to do so. Regardless of what is not included in the Law, we will vote for this Law because we believe that the Law is good, but here, we appeal to the Government and the Ministry to consider this proposal and our suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106316	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106317	Final proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 217, the promoter is the government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Committee on Law and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. 123 MPs and MPs voted, 199 for, 4 abstentions and the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds was passed. Report on the situation in the water services sector and the work of the 2020 Water Services Council The applicant shall be the Water Services Council. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the situation in the water services sector and the work of the 2020 Water Services Council is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. It voted 107, 77 for, 14 abstentions and 16 against, and concluded that it had proposed a parent working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106320	I thank the president. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS for 10 minutes for further consultations. Such a permanent reconstruction is a kind of constitutional crisis in which the abuse of the obedient parliamentary majority in power maintains the most serious crime since the acquisition of independence and independence. My colleagues and colleagues, the corrupt government is not only not credible but not patriotic. So, dear HDZs, hold your hand on your heart for nothing when you play the anthem. Such a permanent reconstruction is a direct undermining of both the state and its democracy. So far, from the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been reconstructed as many as 20 ministers due to severe corruption affairs, and from everything we know about Mario Banozic, about Willi Beroš, about Ivan Paladin, we can count on them to be reconstructed for the first time. Stop this farce. The only one who is legitimate is the power that is reconstructed in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106321	The apartment is approved. The second is Comrade Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106322	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I request a 10-minute recess for further consultations. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate Niko Grumoja on the successful reconstruction of the government. Why the shrubs? So he sought and collected signatures for the shift of Aladrovic, Coric and Milosevic. So, exactly the people you're replacing today. The bush has set you a deadline, a timing period when you have to change them because next week that debate would come to the assembly. You had to hurry up and do it today so that under the extra public and the media wouldn't come, there were reasons why you replaced these people. Andy Warhol is attributed to a statement that in this pop world everyone will welcome their 15 minutes of glory. If Andrej Plenkovic continues with this rhythm and this breadth and swing to change ministers every citizen of the Republic of Croatia will welcome the opportunity for 15 minutes as minister. There's been a bad public atmosphere, and I'd like to express my regret about this good part of the campaign and the public disgrace of the three candidates we really have nothing against. And we condemn that because it's not a problem in them, it's young people, the problem is in this government itself, which was supposed to fall in 19.2. when Minister Horvat ended up in prison, and unfortunately that didn't happen. You have additionally burdened these three candidates with Plenkovic's story that if very good-looking court proceedings end up liberating for the people we are replacing today, they can return to the government. What does that mean? That they're going to open new resorts or we're going to name these people only temporarily as if they went on maternity leave and that shift at school until they come back these days they're going to be ministers, in what additional difficult situation you're putting them in. So I'm going to repeat once again this isn't a reconstruction, this is a decriminalization of the government, makeup of the dead. The 19.2. government was supposed to fall. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106323	The apartment is approved. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106324	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to point out once again that it is inconceivable today that Anja Shimpraga will become Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia after her responses to the Homeland War yesterday and to the military-redarative action of the Storm. The preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly and loudly states that the historical right to full state sovereignty is manifested among other things in the victory of Croatian peoples and Croatian defenders in the fair defence and liberation of the Homeland War. On my two very simple questions yesterday, did he agree with the the thesis that a large part of the Serbs rebelled against the Croatian state in the 1990s, and participated in an armed rebellion, the answer was not given. On my second question, does it agree with the the thesis that the Storm was a military and legitimate action of the HV has made it clear and loud that the Storm for Croats and Serbs is not the same, the person who needs to swear to the Croatian Constitution today, and we know what the preamble says. This has not been recorded in the history of Croatian European democracy. Once again, I appeal to my HDZ colleagues and Croatian defenders not to support Anja Simpraga. Francis Tudjman turns in his grave after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106325	The apartment is approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106326	He's been injured. The 240th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are hundreds of reasons why we can object to this call for reconstruction. This isn't one of them, what you have stated isn't, can't and shouldn't be a reason because the only thing he talks about is hate, hate on a national basis, hate on the other. This. Can't and can't be the reason why [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Grbin]] Someone shouldn't be a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Employer: A colleague of the coat of arms]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106327	We still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am now asking you colleagues and colleagues for a dignified debate not to enter into what I think is sensitive, which takes into account then some elements of personal accounting. Stick to political attitudes as acceptable or unacceptable as they are to someone, but not to go into some grades now that may disrupt the elevation of some of our colleagues, so here's your colleague Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106328	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, I am certainly injure the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, a colleague named Grbin insulted the entire range of Croatian MPs, especially Croatian citizens, with harsh, prejudice and hatred for others and others. He is not in conflict, I remind him, with Mr. Pavlovich, he is in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with the Declaration of the Homeland War, in particular point 7, so let him read it... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106329	Thank you, fellow Sacic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106330	He's been injured. 238, a colleague of the coat of arms insults the MPs, shame and shame on you. Unlike you, I've been more than 20 years. I live in a national mixed city. I have returned to Vukovar, and I respect all the citizens of the city of Vukovar, unlike you, the government in the city of Vukovar is helping everyone no matter what nationality they are. You also deny your colleague, Shimpraga, the foundations of the Constitution of the Croatian state with such behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106331	Comrade Mlinarić, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Get involved, get involved, you're not, you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106332	Here I go. In 238, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms, insulted all Croatian defenders. If it stands in the constitution that the Croatian state was created on the basis of the Homeland War, and the Deputy Prime Minister denies the Liberation Action Storm and it is not the same for Croatia, then trust me that she did not deserve to sit in the place where Mr Plenkovic will appoint her for which few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106333	Comrade Bačić, you too have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106334	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Pavlic, was injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure. Namely, I would remind him that a colleague of Shimpraga is not taking an oath today, she took the oath two years ago. when she swore to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in whose original grounds it states that Croatia is also founded on a magnificent victory in the Homeland War in the liberating, legitimate, fair and defence. Therefore, today's appointment as minister is taking the same oath she already took, and this controversy could have been before, not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106335	Thank you very much. There's a fellow Pupovac here, and you've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106336	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. He's been injured. The 238th unspeakable attack on one of our colleagues who, as already said, swore to the Croatian Constitution, means all of his provisions from preamble to the latest article that challenges constitutional patriotism. The people who attacked Boris Milosevic... The 25th anniversary of the Storm went to Knin because it wasn't enough for them because it was a disgrace in their opinion... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106337	Thank you, dear fellow Pupovac, thank you very much, come on, come on, please, let's calm down now. So here is our colleague representative who, as counterpart Bacic has already said, swore as a parliamentary representative to the values defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask you now not to move on because these are now not only your political views but you are insulting the dignity and persons, so I would ask you to stop by. We've had opportunities through the debates and through the work on the board to test your opinions, but this, this really isn't, it's not, on a human level is not right. So I'm asking you to stop. A fellow Pavlich, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106338	Yes, the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, a colleague of Pupovac, made a lie. No one insults a colleague of the Shimprag or that was her intention, we just expect Anja Shimpraga to respect the state in which she lives and the foundations of this country, nothing more, nothing less. Anyone who lives in this country has certain rights, but also certain obligations, and you, Mr. Pupovac, know best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106339	So, I'm going to give you a heads-up right now because I've already warned you. A colleague of Shimpraga has been elected to HS, I repeat, has sworn to both the state and the constitution itself and all that is defined in that constitution. So I think this is a political game now. Here's a colleague of Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106340	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, for your injury. 238. A fellow Pupovac yesterday had the opportunity to call us immoral on the board, the only reason why Mr. Milosevic was attacked is because he is immoral, he is a businessman, that is, it is your party's policies, and a colleague of Shimpraga is a year older than me, she has had the opportunity and she still has the opportunity to tell the truth about what happened in the Homeland War, but we won't hear it from you, we won't hear from you, we won't hear from colleague Jeckov or from Boris Milosevic. That's the problem with your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106341	My colleague Milanović litre, you are now getting a warning. Let's move on. Now it's time for my colleague, Skoro, to request a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106342	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the Club For a fair Croatia for 10 minutes for additional consultations on this point because we want to highlight 2 things. The first is that the government's reconstruction is actually proof that the government and its president recognise that there are problems and that the government is not working successfully. It is not only burdened with affairs, arrests, but also with the fact that the figures do not speak for the sake of the Croatian government's actions over the past two years, and when summed up cumulatively, so over the past six years. The most important thing in everything, and in politics, is the outcome. We don't follow the outcome, we just need to make a political decision. And what consequences it will have, and how far - reaching these consequences will be, no one is interested in it. We're going to do a cosmetic reconstruction of the government and we're going to lose at least two more years. Or time to some next reconstruction that will result from certain corrupt or similar activities. We do not support it at the Club For Fair Croatia and also, we want to stress that we do not care at all who is what. I personally don't care who's what. The time of division in Croatia, especially in Serbs and Croats, should have passed long ago, but I was on that committee yesterday, and it was not me, but a colleague who was a candidate for the Deputy Prime Minister on several occasions very much and, as it were, proudly emphasized her national membership. You've never heard that from me or the members of our club or anyone in this House. She's doing it for what? Probably because she's aware that she's becoming vice president of the Parliament just because she's who she is. Or it's her profession. That's true. Look at the video, and you'll see who started it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106343	Stanka's accepted. Let's move on. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106344	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I invite you to support colleague Anja Simprag, a representative who took an oath just over a year ago and who respects the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. However, here I am publicly asking a question, which the constitutional order respects our colleague, Marijan Pavliček, when at his own wedding he sings a song here's the dawn, here's the day, here's Jurah and Boban, here's the dawn, here's the Tic, our Jura Francetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106345	I wasn't at the wedding, so I can't tell if it's like that or not. Comrade Sacic, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106346	It's really sad. It is truly sad and tragic, partly from colleague Jeckov to listen to such lows and, in fact, on one side, offensive turns out to be a burden, character and work of fellow Pavliček, not to refer to thousands of those who openly call and challenge Croatian statehood to monuments to Chetnik dukes [[Intruder: Here is my colleague Sačić.]] in Bor's village, in Knin and everything. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow Sacic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106347	Comrade Sacic, come on, thank you very much. Come on, let's go back to the discussion frames, this is all going the wrong way right now. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106348	I thank the chairman. Yes, here I will try to get things back to what is crucial, which is essential, which is that this government has long failed, that this government can't be reconstructed, that we haven't seen anything since the reconstruction, except for the replacement of two ministers, or ministers and officials who are under criminal investigations, and the replacement of another one we haven't actually heard about why it's changing since the Prime Minister has been praising him as a phenomenal minister all along, so I don't know why you're letting him go to the CNB. What's the fact is that this government has proven that it cannot achieve stability the moment you replaced Horvat with Paladin. Minister Paladin has already been proven to have been extracting real estate from the IGH worth nearly 60 million kuna. That's the minister you gave us. After that, you place Mr Filipovic as Minister of Economy and Environmental Protection. I really don't want to be this guy, descending on some low-level branch, so I'm not going to repeat everything about Mr. Filipovic's reputation in public, but the fact that he certainly won't contribute to the citizens' trust in this government, and just to repeat, 70% of the citizens of this country think that the government is going in the wrong direction. So I'm going to use this moment one more time, appeal to all coalition partners so that people can see that we can't move forward with this government. That we would constantly, as if on the station, have ministers' shifts and we wouldn't. implement no reforms. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106349	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. And let's go, another request, colleague Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106350	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club to consult on the appointment of three ministers. I thought I'd devote more time to Mr Filipovic, but all the voters said about him in the local elections in the city of Zagreb. I think she's going to spend her genius idea that she'll finally discover the cancer vaccine and that the economy is going to make great progress with it, but I have to go back to Mrs. Shimprag who's going to be appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Dragan Jeckov who's mentally defending her, colleague. Mrs. Jeckov, you've had your chance. They're digging up a tomb there two miles from your village. You should have said that people find themselves, and there would be reconciliation between Serbs and Croats, not silence and 31 bodies lying in a dump in Petrovci. Secondly, the girl from the column who presented herself with this emotional speech at the beginning of the constitutive session of the Assembly, unfortunately, Mrs. Anja 403 Croatian children had no right to live, lost the lives of 403 children. You of the girl from the column sat in the vice-presidential seat of the Croatian Government, and for you is still disputed both Storm and Bljesak, for you is the disputed Borovo Selo, for you the disputed Vukovar. They must have shelled themselves, brought the city down on their own. But here, since there will probably be more government reconstruction and we see that Prime Minister Plenkovic has problems with selecting ministers that no one will, so here for Defence Minister, because Banozic is likely to replace him with Stanimirovic and, if not in character and action, perhaps Sljivancanin, because he has great merit for bringing Vukovar to the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106351	My colleague Mlinaric, I don't know if he's too personal in this, but good. It's your rights, you can say whatever you want. Stanka has been approved and this one, but we're not going to take a break. In accordance with Article 293b. We'll go to the vote. So I am voting on a proposal to show the trust of Anja Simpraga to carry out the post of Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. A total of 128 MPs and deputies voted. 77 was against it, 51 was, by establishing that Anja Shimpragi's trust was expressed in the performance of the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] A proposal to show confidence to Davor Filipovic to perform his duties as Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. The promoter is Andrej Plenkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. In accordance with paragraph 10. The Rules of Procedure on this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure set out that to show confidence to government members, a half majority of all MPs are required. We have one request for a recess before the vote. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106353	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have an interesting situation. Mr Filipovic comes to the government of the Republic of Croatia not because Ćoric is tired, let's not be fooled but because his colleague who worked with him, who was subdued to him in the ministry, mentioned him in a criminal procedure in a difficult billion kuna affair. Coric leaves the government of the Republic of Croatia for crimes like others had to, as some had to, say, replace Horvat and Paladin. And watch the irony now, the gentleman who had just entered the hall, Mr Filipovic entered the government even though five years as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests had no chance to see, did not see what the administration was doing, how the administration violated the law and was surprised yesterday when he was mentioned that several criminal proceedings were being conducted against the chairman of the administration in the jumping cases. The man was unable to control Croatia's forests, and today he will become the minister of one of the largest and most important resistors in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not a reconstruction. What is happening today, just as in Mr Horvat's case, is the only consequence of the work and activities of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the police. And that's the reality, that's the truth to talk about. What is happening today is not the fruit of the unhappiness and incompetence of certain ministers, because then Beros, Banozic and so on would go. Question who would stay? This is only happening today because the government was involved by people the USKOK thinks are criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106354	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106355	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I request a ten-minute break in order to clearly support once again the proposed amendment in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hear in the assembly and already looking for a break that a large number of ministers have changed in the term of Andrej Plenkovic. First of all, I will say that on Tuesday, Andrej Plenkovic becomes the longest-ever prime minister in Croatia's history and that this is his second government. Today we mark the 15th anniversary of the death of the late SDP president and prime minister in the SDP government of Mr Ivica Racan. So I would remind myself that in four years, Ivica Racan changed 8 ministers and contributed to the division of the Croatian Social Liberal Party, into 4 years of 8 ministers. The second SDP government led by current state president Zoran Milanovic in his term of four years has changed nine ministers much shorter, the three are sitting here and two appear to me from the Ivica Racan government. Therefore, in all democratic states, during the conduct of the mandate, there is a change in the composition of the cabinet of the Prime Minister. We would like to say that the proposed ministers and Mr Filipović and Mr Piletic and Mrs Simpraga are welcome in the work of the government, have our full support and we are sure that they will justify the expectations of Croatian citizens and that the government and HDZ will continue to record unmarked growth at the age of 6 political parties during the conduct of their duties. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106356	Thank you very much. My colleague Puljak thought that my colleague Pernar had returned to the assembly with this cell phone, and I think it's very inappropriate for us to take a photo here, and I didn't expect it from you, but I thought you were a little bit more serious, but it's good for you. We have several injuries to our rules of procedure, and my colleague Bencic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106357	Thank you. Injury. In 238, therefore, Mr. Bačić insults not only us MPs, but all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by trying to counter the claim that as some kind of voluntary government reconstruction, it is the fact that USKOK is replacing ministers and officials that you can no longer compensate for for for months because there is no bottom by which you can be reeded and who can be found at all to be minister in the HDZ government. Well, it's a fact. that a man with two criminal charges [[Intruder President: colleagues Bencic.]] They'll put them alive as ministers because you don't have anyone else. [[Intruder President: colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106358	My colleagues, Bencic, you get a warning this was a replica, my colleague Bencic, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure because this is a pure replica has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't do that. My colleagues, Vucilović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106359	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, of course, counterpart Bacic forgot to note that the government is burdened with criminal charges and procedures and that more ministers have left this government over the past six years who have been under investigation than Eve Sanader's government. This government is nothing but an elaborate orchestra with a visionless conductor and you will no longer read it for the next two years or longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106360	You know that this is a replica, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you did not bother to find some form but directly replicate. You're getting a warning. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I risk the reminder, however, Art. In 238, Bacic used mathematics, so only the public for 4+4 are two mandates, not wanting to defend the SDP government is eight and changing 17 people. You have 4+2=6, so six years, and 25 people have been changed, so by year you're changing four ministers, and SDP two, here's the math still doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106362	I don't know where you got to the 25 ministers. They're already interesting numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106363	It says a lot on Google.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106364	He writes all kinds of things on the wall, so there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106365	I agree with us in Slavonia they say the same thing. Don't run.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106366	Here you go, colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106367	A colleague, Bačić, was injured by an article. In 238, the insult of the truth and reason advocates, Racan's government, Racan led two governments since 2000-2003. two governments and no ministers went to either of these two governments, but when the government changed, and in particular none of them went on charges and suspected of robbing, stealing alienated other people's property, etc., so there was no such thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106368	It's also not a violation of the rules of procedure, so it's a warning. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106369	Thank you very much, President. Art. 238, a colleague named Bencic injured an officer. 238. because he tries to teach us again and gives us messages and recommendations, so I would ask her, here is a year running in the city of Zagreb you did not choose any minister i.e. No head so try to try what you know here in the assembly transferred to the congregation or to the city of Zagreb, choose at last those people who obviously or do not want to work for you or are not there. Try to work it out, and let our people handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106370	I have to warn you, too, because this wasn't connected to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. He will now try to justify the violation of his colleague Bacic's rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106371	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vidovic, was injured by an article. Rules of Procedure of HS 238. I said that Mr. Racan in four years, whether it was one or three governments or two exactly two, changed eight ministers. Therefore, in the term of office it is normal for the ministers to change, to refresh the government I see nothing controversial there, and in that sense I said that...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106372	A colleague of Bacic's also replicas and you get a warning. My colleagues, Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106373	Mr. Boric Art. In 238, Mr. Bori will understand the level of your frustration when you are capable of getting Mr. Filipovic, and you think that if he can, so can I. I get your frustration. As far as you're concerned, we'd like to leave them to Hopkok.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106374	You'll get a second warning from your colleagues, Bencic. Let's move on. My colleagues, Selak Raspadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106375	Art. 238nd fellow Bacic, you are an experienced politician, if you had any confidence in Plenkovic's government and in the fact that he will remain at the helm of HDZ, you would be the first to accept a position in the new government and now talk to the new Minister of Construction. But obviously you're not in a hurry to Remetinec, and maybe you're already working on finding a new leader today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106376	And, uh, the injury of my colleague, Mr. Rasdic, about the new leaders, we'll see, maybe you should think about it, too. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106377	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238nd colleague Bencic, so my colleague Boric, I think you're wrong, my friend Bencic, they know enough fit, they bring him in from Osijek, and then they pay 5,000 kuna, accommodation like they're parliamentary representatives, they know it. But if I can commend myself, I think that future Minister Davor Filipovic will be of quality, we stand behind him, the doctor is a doctor of science, and I absolutely believe that he will show very much in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106378	My colleague Pavić and you have to get a warning because that's what the Rules of Procedure says, so we're done now and we're going to vote now. So, I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to Davor Filipovic in carrying out his duties as Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. Please, let's vote. 127 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were in favour, 50 were against and thus expressed confidence in Davor Filipovic in carrying out his duties as Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. Congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106381	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106382	Someone, someone's got a microphone on, so please, I don't see who from here. No, no, it doesn't matter, here it is, give it back time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106383	Here, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front so that we don't unjustly ignore the third minister in a refreshing reconstruction government that will certainly bring about a improvement. And it will bring an improvement for a million and five hundred thousand workers who in this country expect something from this minister who will be remembered here among the parliamentary deputies as a father who wants a little more days after the birth of a child, but did not know that in his draft of the Law of Labour, the HDZ will give zero days to fathers who want to be with their wives after the birth of a child. I hope you understand that by reading the draft Labour Act for two years in secret. And by the way, on Sunday, we'll find out how many colleagues and colleagues this government thinks about our employees. On Sunday, when we arrive at the biggest workers' holiday, the Day of Work, on Sunday, when many workers will work. If we weren't infirm, we'd send him a few minutes after he becomes a minister, we'll send him a new draft of the Labour Act. In this draft Labour Act which is an initiative for the Workers' Zor...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106384	Please colleagues and colleagues be a little parliamentary. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106385	In this draft amending and supplementing the Labour Act that we will send you, which will send you an initiative for the Workers' Zor gathered with 12 unions and 20,000 participants, workers would have the opportunity to work on Sundays and at least pay for it. Because now, according to the current Labour Act, they can get literally one lip, and they, the employers, they've legally secured everything, they haven't hurt anything. The law needs to be changed. It should not be changed in the way HDZ intended to change so that the fathers have zero days after the birth of the child. But it needs to be changed so that people who work overtime get [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] some of it and paid. [[Intruder: My colleagues Peović thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106386	Stanka has been approved and we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106387	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, MP Peović was injured consecutively and last time she told a lie and a lie that there is a secret document of the HDZ on the Labour Act that is abolished or does not allow any father rights on any parental leave. By the way, they're already entitled to 2 months. parental leave, as well as in application [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] the adoption of a directive on 10 days of paid leave. [[Employer: My colleague Murganić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106388	My colleague Murganić's time is up, you didn't hurt, you hurt the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106389	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, so I am sorry that you are talking about your fellow Members of Parliament, the mayor who has the results, the man who had the vision of bringing the gaming industry to Novska and that you are lying and talking about the government of Andrej Plenkovic as well. If someone was fighting for the workers, it was just us. Let's look at the minimum wage as much as it grew by 1,250 kuna, 1,800 is the average salary growing. So we're absolutely here for the citizens. [[Employer: colleague Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106390	Comrade Pavić thank you very much, thank you very much, but this is the same replica you get a reminder. My colleague Petyr is now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106391	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Article 238 was injured because a colleague of Peović in his constant totalitarian jihad, who has been exhibiting since Marin Piletic became a parliamentary representative, demeaning him, lying and twisting him because the fact that Mr. Pilletic has so far shown responsibility and awareness on every duty. I believe he'll show it at the minister's post as well. And how big is your hypocrisy Mrs. Peovic saying that you say that on behalf of the HSS that Chicken supports in Nov and from the ranks of HSS is the deputy mayor, so that, so you're a representative absurda, counsel of absurda. [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106392	Thank you very much. You get colleagues Petir, colleagues Petir, you get a warning, this was the same thing as a replica. Let's move on. Now we have a colleague, Peovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106393	The Rules of Procedure have been injured, so 238, colleagues from Pavic would say... A little bit of seriousness, yeah, on this subject, wouldn't be too bad. Here's a colleague and a colleague, especially fellow Pavic, so here I'd say that we should correct perhaps a historical injustice and return it to the minister, because what he was doing means buying perfumes and gifts, it's nothing compared to Paladin who spends more time explaining the origins of his property than the restoration. [[/Intruder: Please, colleagues and colleagues, please, let's wake up, let's let our colleagues speak. Here you go. He'll get five seconds higher, my colleagues.]] which we won't wait for. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106394	And this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106395	Honored Chairman, Art. 238, insulting MPs, MPs. I'm asking here to correct the injustice against Majda Buric. Namely, when counterpart Pavić mentioned the gaming industry, so most citizens for this minister do not know whether Miletic or Pilletic, but we all here who sit around day and night know that Majda Buric does not have more power than she does, because the first by number of sentences started by this government is Andreja Plenkovica, so if she did not deserve to be a minister, no one did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106396	Yes, colleague Oreshkovic, you're getting a warning, but please something, this one. You are all, 151 who has been elected equally worthy here and you have received the trust of the citizens, and your colleague is twice elected Mayor of Novska in direct elections, so I don't know where you get the right to question his legitimacy, very unusually incorrectly incorrectly and don't do that, don't do that. ... Well, I am, the chairman myself, but it's kind of funny for someone to raise themselves up and think he's a better advocate or a better quality politician than someone else, so don't do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106397	Your Honor, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106398	Congratulations, thank you. I'm sure my colleague, Whitey, is not giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106399	I'm not gonna give up, yeah. Art. 238, a colleague of Petir, who has been speaking for almost 2 years on behalf of the HDZ, mentioned the HSS again. Manny, I think she's actually sorry that she wasn't proposed to be a minister today because that's how she would round up her political cleavage, her political career, and quite symbolically, on the date of the death of Ivica Racan, part of whose most precisely colleague, Petir, as a member of the HSS, was then far back in 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106400	Comrade Beljak, you get a warning because time is up, and you didn't say anything to be hurt by the Rules of Procedure, you've already replicated. Comrade Buric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106401	Thank you, dear president of HS. Mme. JANAF's attorney, if I'm not mistaken, with a rating of less than 0.5%, I'm calling for an article. 238 and this time I'm going to start exactly the way it hurts you. Yes, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has achieved 32,000 more employees than last year, 56 grand. [[Applause.]] more employees compared to last year and it is a shame that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It makes you sick. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Buric, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106402	Comrade Buric, thank you very much, you get a warning because it was also a replica. Now, come on, now, here's two ladies, so I'd like to ask you to stop after that, because now this doesn't make any sense anymore, this turns into a debate that, no, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a debate that's really a replica. Comrade Petyr, here you go. No, up to five seconds higher, okay, go, go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106403	Thank you, Mr. President. A fan of radio and automotive devices and a man who believes that UDBA did not kill enough Croats should not speak to me at all, he has ruined HSS, the oldest party in Croatia and yet has lied without sight that I was in someone's government, I have never been in anyone's government, and today I better defend HSS and represent the interests of HSS than you will do while you live. Shame on you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106404	Comrade Petyr, you're getting a warning, this was also a replica. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106405	238. I answer, therefore, to my colleague Buric, but I would also like to direct you, the chairman, one comment from my colleague, you should not call the ladies. But, so, fellow Buric, if you're counting how many of my parties are in percentage polls, and I think HDZ MPs Incomprehensible/... [[Intruder:...]] Here you go. Please, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, we will return time. We'll get the time back. There you go. You've got five more seconds on top of this. Here you go. Comrade Buric, you probably wouldn't be in this House if you weren't a list of HDZ, so much about it, and when we talk about the percentages and your successes of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, as you start every sentence, then you should have accurate statistics. Code pay us up 14%, and in Romania [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] 85%. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106406	Thank you very much. I didn't want to do anything wrong by calling you a lady, but then I can use the term representative. Okay. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106407	Art. 238, colleague Petir is right there today where she and those who clap, proof of this is also that she has more than 5 million kunas of reported savings, and anyone who has finished 4 grades of primary school knows that this was only possible in a way that saved her career imagine every month 3,000 euros, not earned but saved. So, it's the achievement of my colleague, Petir, and I'm as happy as any member that she's no longer in HSS but where she belongs in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106408	Your colleague Beljak is being reminded again. Now, my colleague Petir is again also in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have two warnings. I just want to warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106409	If I knew, my colleague, Beljak, hurt Article 238, because he's lying and slandering. I've earned everything in my life unlike the one who stole it. Imagine a man stealing sweatpants, stealing from cars. I don't even know how it's possible that he's sitting here today? Maybe you could explain your relationship with a Samobor company there how he built the house, who built it, who paid for it, what money? Where are those applications? Why are they in the drawer? I call on USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office to investigate in detail this car robber and the man who calls for the liquidation of the Croats, because we have a thief in our ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106410	Thank you very much. Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. You get a third warning, you can't argue anymore. Now it's my fellow Shimičević's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106411	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. My colleague told you not to call my dear fellow ladies. Apparently she thinks they're not ladies or she's a lady who has a restraining order on her husband, but everyone here in this House should be friends and friends.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106412	You get a warning from your colleague Simičević. Come on, guys, please! Please! Come on, stop now. We have more important things to do right now. I would suggest we stop, this doesn't make any sense anymore because we've now entered personal accounts, insults, slanders, etc. Well, we'd better stop now. All right? Can you give up your fellow Peović, colleague Raukar? Okay? You can't. Come on, please, you'll open a new circle again now, then the charges. No, we know you're democratic and there's no coercion. We heard a little bit, but we'll pretend we didn't. Let's move on. Now it's your turn. About that, by that. We'll see. You're taking a short while. We'll see more. We'll see, we'll see. My colleagues Ivana Posavec Krivec explained the break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106413	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to point out the very responsible moment in which Croatia is located and to invite all colleagues and colleagues to be serious. The situation in the Republic of Croatia is not easy. The people who chose us in this high house. We have much greater expectations than to throw them a party on Fridays when they follow the Croatian Parliament and watch this vote. I am therefore extremely sorry that, at the moment when we talk about the government's reconstruction, we are not talking about the goals that this reconstruction was meant to achieve, we are not talking about the purpose that the Prime Minister wanted to achieve with these changes. The prime minister was clearly placed in a particular emergency in which he had to make changes in his government. And that's exactly what results from the fact that incompetent ministers are being replaced in some cases even less competent. We are showing concern here on behalf of the 800,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia who live on the edge of existence. It is for the new minister who will take over the portfolio, perhaps the largest in the Republic of Croatia as regards importance for our citizens that is the portfolio of pension work, pension system, family and social policy. That he was incompetent in that resistor he showed it yesterday at a hearing of fellow Parliamentarians and colleagues where he did not know the answer to the elemental questions from the resistor. It is precisely the concern we are expressing and we regret that the prime minister did not change Minister Aladrovic at the time when he led to the most disastrous changes in the social care system, when the whole profession stood against reform, but does so now not because of the failure of the minister but for other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106414	Stanka has been approved, but like the others, we will not consume it for five minutes, but we will proceed immediately, so let's vote now. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to Marin Pilletić Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy. Please, let's vote. 126 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 49 against, so this means that Marin Piletic's trust in the duties of the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy has been expressed. Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for swearing to the new ministers and vice-presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were met. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 5 The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sworn in in a way that the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls individual members of the Government, and the members of the Government swear by standing up and pronouncing the oath. The text of the oath reads: “I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Anja Simpraga, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106416	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106417	Congratulations again and I wish you a lot of success! - Give it up. - Give it up. Davor Filipovic, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106418	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106419	Congratulations and I want just as much success! And Marin Piletic, minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106420	So help me, Holy Joseph the Worker, I swear! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-29-0.u106421	Congratulations! Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] I want you to successfully carry out the honorable and responsible duties of the Vice-President and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now just please briefly, briefly please. So, I am setting a 20-minute recess in order to hold a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and to decide on the launch of the parliamentary post of deputy representative of our colleague Magdalene Commission and also to confirm the mandate of agent Boris Milosevic. So I'll see you in half two, 13.30. It's 1:00 P.M.
