ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u102920	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u102921	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. A major report arrived for the Republic of Croatia yesterday, the European Commission and the European Central Bank published a convergence report assessing the progress of Member States in meeting the criteria for the introduction of the euro. Today, the Vice-President of the European Commission for the Economy, Mr Dombrovskis, was also visiting. The report covers 7 countries in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Sweden, of which only Croatia has truly met all convergence conditions at this time. According to the criteria, we have met all the conditions, and this concerns price stability, sustainability of public finances, exchange rate stability, convergence of long-term interest rates. On entry into the ERM-2 RH, it committed to implementing additional reform measures, and demonstrated its firm intention to introduce the euro when the convergence criteria are met, in March 2022 they met, all the preconditions and measures agreed with the institutions and the euro area Member States. The Republic of Croatia is 3rd. In turn, it met all the nominal convergence criteria other than those relating to the stability of the course. Given that the Republic of Croatia joined the European Course Mechanism 2 in July 2020, the stability criteria of the course could be met at the earliest on 10 July of this year. The final decision on whether a certain member fulfils the conditions for entry into the euro area shall be taken by the Council of the EU on the basis of the Convergence Report. In May 2022, the European Commission, in its presentation of the Spring Package of the European Semester, estimated that Croatia no longer had a macroeconomic imbalance as a result of the reduction in public debt, and already it was a very good message prior to the appearance of this convergence report. It is therefore important to note that although the biggest challenge was just entering the euro area and the price stability criterion in view of inflation faced not only by the Republic of Croatia but also by other countries, this was not the most important prerequisite since inflation pressures stemmed from a strong rise in prices of raw materials in world markets and problems in global supply chains. What does the euro itself mean? So the introduction of the euro as an official currency will have long-term benefits for the Republic of Croatia, for the economy and for its citizens. In fact, when we look at what this means in terms of one-off costs, then we can say that just joining the euro area and introducing the euro actually enables the economy of the Republic of Croatia to be as competitive as possible, namely what is most important by introducing the euro is, the currency risk is being abolished, and it disappears completely, and this actually increases competitiveness. In addition, the accession of the euro area itself is also accessible to monetary operations of the euro system where it influences and promotes international investment exchanges, achieves lower interest rates and reduces risks to financial stability. That is exactly what makes it a great advantage for the Republic of Croatia and its economy to be strongly focused on the euro area market and thus will have an increased resilience of the economy to external shocks. This is precisely the case for improving the competitiveness of domestic companies and providing them with additional space to increase business and investment activities. It is precisely why we can be extremely proud that during the past period, the Government has made remarkable, exceptional progress as one of the strategic goals other than entering Schengen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103015	Thank you. Since one hour has already passed, three minutes, we will stop with this exact moment and go to the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and the first one on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103016	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a few messages for all of you. The first is to at least try not to attack the weaker link in the chain, but to try to hit on the one that needs to be hit. Namely, if the opposition and the general public thinks that the main state attorney is not independent because she fears whether she will be removed from the parliamentary majority, and that parliamentary majority is currently protecting the most corrupt government that Croatia has ever had, if we are all expensive to think that Andrej Plenkovic is the leader of all criminal groups, but also other corrupt structures, starting with the Borg and continuing to exert political pressure on Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, in order to protect his, still ministers, from further actions of the law enforcement body, then the blade of our criticism and the objective of our political actions should not be just to carry out various calls on the work of the DORH as an institution or Zlatna Hrvoj Šipek as the head of that body must already be our demand to be the replacement of Andrej Plenković, the change of HDZ, and most importantly, our main political goal must be the change of the system which the HDZ has taken advantage of its own. If this is not possible now because the current parliamentary majority is stronger than the number of hands we can see in the vote because there are chips of sleepers who have already pledged to Andrej Plenkovic that he will be at his service if needed, then our task, I say, is not only to refer to legitimate criticism, but to talk about how Croatia should one day look, and that we really have independent institutions in whose work, we can trust. Also, as a reference to yesterday's hearing in Zlata Hrvoja Šipek, I will order something else to the entire political scene, which is that we are not asking her to solve what HS was unable to solve. So it is not her who is in a corrupt hand and who is the main culprit for protecting corruption in this kind of Croatia. It is primarily the parliamentary majority, the same one, the same one whose abdominals are now defending the work of institutions. But what would happen is that after such strong criticisms of the well-founded, it comes to the fact that HDZ has overplayed us all together and said it would move in demand that Zlata Hrvoj Šipek be replaced. What would happen then? A new Gold, Štefica, Djurdja or any other person would be named by that same parliamentary majority. However, on the very announcement that it will take place in such a shift, I believe that many of the opposition would now remember that we, by such a DORH whose work is justified, are well-founded, yet the arrest of a minister has happened. And I believe that at that time, we would remember some other results that we are now too easily and lightly trivializing, demoralizing and dissuasing the work of those honest state lawyers who are in such a rotten system and still struggling with some religion, so my third message is that we are not being subjected to thin ice by either HDZ or by those political structures that have twice brought HDZ into power, which are not saying anything about what should actually be changed. Let's put aside what's currently being called a person who presides over DORH or USKOK as some kind of independent institution. Let's focus more on what we're running away to talk about, not just in this H.S. summit, but a lot longer. So in 2014, GRECO as an international organisation that monitors the formation of state institutions and the real possibility of their independent work has made some recommendations, but the recommendations of the Republic of Croatia are also addressed to consider whether the system of choice of the main state attorney should be changed, it has long matured the time to change, unfortunately, for some things it also needs to change the constitution. What I'm proposing, and it would help strengthen the independence of the attorney general, is to amend the constitutional provision that says the term of office lasts 4 years. with the possibility of re-election, if we extend the mandate and lift the possibility of re-election, we will get a top state attorney who has no need to calculate with the timing of some of his investigations or arrests. It is also necessary to change the process of nomination and election in the way we are currently doing for the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103161	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most will now speak the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103162	My colleagues and colleagues, a lot of Croatian problems would disappear if the border between secret and public, private and business, parties and institutions were respected. That is the conclusion that I am under duress after yesterday's hearing of the main state attorney on the Anti-Corruption Council. What does that mean? For example, the Prime Minister must not give instructions to the attorney general in a private phone conversation. It would have been bad enough if any kind of suggestion had given her a public urbius at orbi as did the President of the Republic, and this way is immeasurably worse. If Plenkovic hadn't talked about it himself, the public wouldn't have found out, and now he knows that the Prime Minister's phone is giving instructions to the state's attorney and nobody. But at least we're free of illusion. No one controls the controllers. The fact that both actors have publicly admitted that Article 6 has been ecladically violated. The Law on the State Attorney's Office, which says, quotes: "Every form of influence is forbidden, especially every form of coercion towards the state's attorneys," will have no consequences. The subtle difference between public and secret is important for the stability of the state and institutions. It's not a question of someone's whim that there are state and military secrets or classified data. At the time of the state-of-the-art famosa remont, data on the number of operational aircraft were publicly provided and no one was concerned with the presentation of classified military combat preparedness data. What the state's attorney and his associates are doing, reconnaissances, investigations should not be known by anyone outside the institutions, but when it comes to Croatia, the U.S. Embassy knows that at the time of Bajic and without any effort, because the state's attorney himself reports them on investigations conducted and shows confidential documents. I refer to documents leaked on Wikileaks sent from the US Embassy to Washington in 2011. And after it got out to no one at all. In every orderly state, such a state's attorney would end up in a long-standing prison. He's still in the system with us. Perhaps the Constitution and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office should be amended and an article should read: "The Attorney General on his work is obliged to submit a report to the other secretary of the US Embassy once in half a year." So if he doesn't want Muhammad Hill, he wants Mount Muhammad. Then let's change the law and the constitution, so let the practice of the state's attorneys at least be within the law when it's not moral. The dichotomy is a secret reason for the activities of secret societies. The last state's chief attorney was a member of the secret society of the Paramason Lodge, in which he took a ritual oath, which is apparently in a collapsing with the oath he made here as the attorney general. Article 26 of the Law on the State Attorney's Office requires him to take an oath before the Croatian Parliament. By now, as far as I know, everyone has taken an oath at the Parliament. The secret organization's sworn oath by the head of state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia was laid if everything went according to regulations dressed in black pants, barefoot, barefoot, exposed heads, and covered with a long black raincoat where a black buckle stood around his neck. I therefore propose that this dress code be entered as an additional item in Article 26. Law on State's Attorney's Office. Perhaps the main state attorneys would better stick to the oaths and less secret to foreign embassies and in private phone conversations if, in accordance with the Masonic oath, the text of the main state attorney's oath was strengthened and said: "I promise and swear I will never give away the secrets of the State's attorney, that I will not introduce anyone to what I will find under the penalty to slit my throat, rip my heart and tongue, break my guts." If the online source of the Masonic oath I have found wrong, I ask that the present free builders withdraw the wrong quote and correct it. The State Attorney's Office, taking into account all its history, concluded with the cover-up of the case, is that it is a de facto violation of the EU regulation and does not send information to OLAF and concluded with the famous phone consultations Plenković – Hrvoj Šiček is rightly an institution that enjoys a miserable reputation for citizens and will not change that without changing the government and the fundamental purification of that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103237	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the Honorable representative Urša Raukar Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103238	Thank you. Russia's feminist protest punk rock band and Pusi Rajot's performance group are certainly among the most famous opponents of Putin's autocratic rule and with Alex Navali's symbol of resistance to Putin's corrupt and criminal government. The group organized unauthorized, provocative guerrilla gigs in public places. The topics of their songs included feminism, LGBT rights, opposition to Russian President Vladimir Putin, whom members consider to continue the aggressive imperialist policy of the Soviet Union and Putin's relationship with the leadership of the Russian Orthodox Church. On February 21st, 2012, at the Church of Christ of Saviors in Moscow, they demonstrated a protest prayer against Vladimir Putin, who was before the re-election of the President of Russia. Their performance in the temple of Christ the Savior was a protest against strong ties between the state and the church and the very clear support of Patriarch Kiril Putin during the election campaign at the time, by the way, and today Patriarch Kiril is firm with Putin and his bloody aggression on Ukraine. The Moscow court found three members of Pusay Riot's punk group guilty of hooliganism, which was explainedly motivated by religious hatred. They were sentenced to two years in prison. Even after a strict prison, they did not give up their activism and demonstrations of Putin’s regime. Group members are repeatedly sentenced to 15 days in prison for participation in protest actions and illicit gatherings. And then Putin went into a bloody war in Ukraine and all the claims Pussy Riot made about Putin's autocracy, the imperialist aspirations were confirmed in that gruesome march. The Croatian government and parliament stood firm with Ukraine against Putin and Russia's imperialist invasion of its neighbouring country. Pussy Riot held a concert three days ago on the roof of MSU in Zagreb. A friend and associate of Ajazova were detained at the border on entering Croatia. The extradition requires Turkmenistan one of the world's most feared dictatorships, known for persecutions, imprisonments and murders of the opposition or anyone who raises their voice against national oppression, oppression. So in 2000 the father of Aya Niaz's opposition politician was killed, and Aja had to flee Moscow. A mounted process against her has been raised. Today, Aja Nijazova is now in an extradition prison in Croatia, awaiting a decision by the Croatian court on the extradition of Turkmenistan, where her friends and colleagues say she is awaiting a certain death. In Lithuania, Iceland, Germany and Switzerland, no one asked her anything. Slovenia has arrested but the judge has been informed of the case of the so-called case. The theft of centuries for which extradition is sought and apologized for the misunderstanding after which it was released, but Croatia did not. Croatia has kept Ayu Niaz in extradition prison despite the clear situation of dissidents and politically persecuted persons on the basis of a warrant for more than 15 years. She did not apologize to her as a Slovenian judge but insists on the procedure. Shame and horror. On the one hand, unreserved support for Ukraine in the fight for freedom against Putin's regime, and on the other hand, we hold in custody one of the representatives of Putin's most vocal opposition. We're playing the rule of law? Hypocritical, pathetic and cowardly. Do we perhaps want to trade with Iao Niaz for some oil or some gas or maybe some courtship with Russia and Putin? We ask from this pay phone that Ayu Niaz be released immediately from prison, that the extradition procedure be terminated and that Ayu Niaz be treated as a political sacrifice threatened by his country's regime. This is the only way for Croatia to remain convincing in its support of Ukraine and all those who fight in Russia and all dictatorships for human rights and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103312	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103313	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. A little over 3 months ago, HS made a decision on the Declaration on Ukraine almost unanimously on 25 February condemning and condemning Russia's aggression on Ukraine's independence. During this time, parliamentary representatives right here in the Croatian assembly expressed Ukrainian flags in support.../incomprehensible/... of the Ukrainian people and their struggle for independence. I may today, for the first time in HS history, report the flag of the Croatian people of BiH in support of the Croats of BiH because they have been disbursed, because they have almost no rights. I do not want to create a circus, I want to point out the problems of the Croatian people in BiH. We all know that Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement, that Croatia is a signator of the Washington Agreement, that these peace agreements guarantee the consistency of all three peoples in BiH, Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. Unfortunately, Croats do not have nearly the right today compared to the other two constituent nations. For months now, a disastrous election law has been under discussion that has been passed for almost 20 years, where others, in this case, Bosniaks have been electing a Croatian member of the presidency. The same electoral law following the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court is not in line with the constitution. What is most regrettable, Croats have recently felt and a physical threat in BiH, especially in the Federation of BiH. And while HDZ and the U.S.A. yesterday are fighting over who's the winner of the so-called winner. Resolutions on BiH among the European public, whether it is Croats or Bosniaks, i.e. HDZ or SDA, the Croatian people must indeed fight for their survival. Namely, this very flag that is here before you has been violently removed in the last few months four times and defiled in Central Bosnia in the Women's-Dobby Canton. For the first time in Varesh, near the Catholic church, for the second time in Novi Šeher, for the third time in Fojnica, in the municipality of Maglaj and yesterday in Jelah in the municipality of Tešanj, and this is the mention of the dead members of the Croatian Council of Defence where the official flag of BiH stands next to the flag of the Croatian people and where Bosniak nationalists are obviously, with the support of the SDA, publicly recording for the Bosniak portals and threatening to take down the flag of the Croatian people of BiH because it is not in accordance with the Constitution, so this time I am telling them that all those who tear up the Croatian flag of the Croatian people of BiH, are torn off BiH because BiH will not survive and cannot exist without all three constituent people. It's in her past, and so it will be in the future. Unfortunately, during the night, these Bosniak nationalists have taken down this flag and once again let the Croats know what kind of civil BiH they want. A civil BiH unitary where only one privilege, in this case, will be given to the Bosniak people. What particularly hurts Croatians Central Bosnia, especially the Women's-Doboj canton, is that it is places where Croats were not at all in conflict with Bosniaks. And what needs to hurt us is that our famous foreign ministry and our unfortunately incompetent minister, Grlic Radman, and yet nothing responded to the fact that every day Croatians are deprived of many rights and most regrettable, which threatens their safety. We believe that the ministry must react and this act of mine today is only a support to BiH Croats that they are not forgotten and that there is still more power in HS who will fight for... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103433	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ante Prkacin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the initiative of the head of Zagreb's SDP to return to the most beautiful square in the City of Zagreb the name of Josip Broz Tito for this reason about Broz, about the character and the work. So, in the historical literature, and in the oral handover of a car, one sixteen or sixteen dates of birth or the birthday of Joseph Broz Tito. No one knows for sure what's true, but we all know it's not 25.5. So I'm not sorry I didn't start the story on the subject in 25.5. And to the communists otherwise, the date, truth, fact, means almost nothing, so that Joseph Broz Tito, with these 16 birth dates, has 15 dates of membership in the Communist party and 20 dates of arrival at the head of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. His true biography begins when he participates as a 22-year-old in the first Balkan, World War I. As a member, they say through the history of the most qualitative Croatian military unit, the 42nd Dombrane Devil Division of War in Serbia, Serbs are prone to myths, stories of any kind, but it has a part of the war they can be proud of it is the First World War when they have won several brilliant victories of Cer Kolubara etc., but interestingly that in battle with that 42nd Dombrano they did not win one single battle even lost the most heroic Serbian battle on the Mac's Stone because they had neither Slovaks nor the Czechs, but they had Croats but also interestingly had Broza who then won the silver Austrian medal because he was a very good fighter, he won the medal for courage. I must mention that on the other hand, one 22-year-old Dragoljub Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic, who received a gold Serb medal, even two. Draga is well defended by Serbs, Broz killed Serbs well, today 70-80% of crazy Serbs prefer Broz than Draža, but I won't, I won't do too much. So after that six-month war in Serbia, he goes to Russia. There, after 2.5 months, he's wounded, trapped, spent five years in Russia. Which is why I say to them that their dates don't matter, why Broz has 15 dates of membership in the Communist Party of Yugoslavia or even the Communist Party, because he was 5 years old in Russia. Neither joined the communists at the first time when it was the Communist Party of Russia, nor after the October Revolution in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and it was an exposition of the Yugoslav Communist Party, which he also refused to join, but returned to Yugoslavia and only in '23. The year becomes a member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, goes to Belgrade to make a career, but as communists shoot at the most sensitive of national issues, Serbian communists want to preserve Yugoslavia because it has covered their national interests well, Croatians want to destroy it, return it, raises some revolution, very clumsy as Dr Ante, the late Ante Pavelic, in his time of chatter, so he worked and ended up on five years of imprisonment. The prison is welcome for him to return to the Soviet Union where he was particularly supported by one of the party's secretaries, or current secretary Milan Gorkic, when the NKVD denuant comes. All the Yugoslavs who were supposed to be shot in Moscow, and Stalin's rule was, kill so they don't kill you, those at close range. So it didn't have to be a man's fault, you need to find someone to charge them with a certain guilt. Yugoslavs were sued and tried by Broz, all shot, interesting thing happening in 1953 when Stalin died. Rehabilitated all Yugoslavs who were shot in the Soviet Union, but who will rehabilitate them in Yugoslavia when all of them are charged, convicted, shot on the basis of Broz's false tip. So, afterwards, it is very important to mention this, that he becomes the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party only on 19.10.40. Mr. and then there goes that famous talk in the proleter where he tells Hitler and Stalin the occupation of Poland, etc. He enters World War II, goes to Serbia because Serbia resists the occupation, Croats are, Croatian people are eager to see Yugoslavia destroyed. He's mentioned as Eugene Savoy, the greatest military leader, the worse military leader and the bigger military Pacer than he was, and I'll continue his military achievements next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103523	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the respected representative Boris Milosevic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103524	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. A lot of bad words have been heard in the past few days about Serbs and Croats between Serbs and Croatians shouting and media noises, insults, even threats as if we cannot or do not want to solve problems with dialogue. And it doesn't have to be because our history together isn't as black and negative as it often wants to be shown. It is just intertwined with joint struggles, mutual assistance and mutual contribution in all social spheres. He would remind us of one history, one historic event that is still recorded only on TV calendars and perhaps not there. In a few days, it will be exactly 174 years when I, Ban Josip Jelačić, solemnly enthroned for the Croatian Ban, repeats the words of the oath before the Orthodox Serbian patriarch and Metropolitan Josip Rajačić otherwise born in the village of Luciani near Brinja. On the day of the ceremony Josip Jelačić entered Zagreb accompanied by as many as 93 chariots of Husar's light cavalry and seres who are border guards and customs officers. They were mostly Serbs. When Zagreb heard the voice that Serbian patriarch Rajačić was entering the city, it was welcomed by the bells of all the bells of the Zagreb churches and was shot from the cannons. The solemn entourage and the ban oath were carried out in St. Katherine, and the very enthronement ritual was continued in the Church of St. Mark, and then at the Orthodox Church of St. The transformations, where Serbian patriarch Josip Rajačić enthroned the ban, as Zagreb bishop Juraj Haulik was prevented. The peak of the day was in St. Marka after the Croatian Parliament, which was chosen for the first time in history by the public elections under the chairmanship of Ban Jelačić, voted in a declaration saying Croats and Serbs alike have the same rights in Croatia. The people are thrilled at the hands of the assembly to the Church of St. Mark was carried by Serbian patriarch Rajačić and Croatian Ban Jelačić. The city had an international joy, and then the newspaper wrote about this solemn moment, which can connect two peoples of one blood more than a church father of Orthodox Serbs enthroned a joint ban from Croatian countries. Let's imagine colleagues today for a moment that atmosphere. I would end up with the words of Patriarch Rajačić, who directed the assembly of the Kingdom of Dalmatia, Croatia and Slavonia. When these nations were destined to live there together, they should live in love and friendship, and that the sanctities of the people love one another equally and honor each other, lest the third one rejoiced with their discord, and therefore he would pick his household. That's how I live, and that's how I want to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103564	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Andreja Maric will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103565	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is World Food Disorder Day. In the media, there is more talk about obesity and problems with overweight. In the EU, we are the worst in this regard. 65% of our citizens also threatened with an excessive body weight of 35% of our children. But we should talk about another spectrum, which is a group of eating disorders. It is a serious devastating disease that, if it is not diagnosed and is not dedicated to it, medical team assistance can have unwanted and lasting consequences. These are three basic entities, anorexia nervousness, bulimia nervousness and other non-specific eating disorders. This year, focus is on those who care about people who are suffering from eating disorders, parents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, partners, spouses, other family members, friends, because eating disorders affect not only the whole family but the whole family. This is why family participation in the treatment is not only encouraging but should be considered to be extremely important. Today we talk about burning people who care about people with eating disorders, burning happens when you are physically, emotionally, and financially overloaded. Do the sick and their loved ones have the support of our country and society? Unfortunately, they don't. From eating disorders in the Republic of Croatia over 85% were female, 15% male. Data on the number of patients vary from 50,000 to 100,000 and more. Anorexia affects mostly younger people, and bulimia is older but there are mixed forms and stages of disease occurrence. It is estimated that only about 20% of them ask for professional help from medics and nutritionists. The treatment of eating disorders is carried out in several health institutions, the assistance is dislocated and for younger people is mainly in the Vinegrad Hospital and Jankomir, and for adults on Rebr and part in the Psychiatric Hospital on Rab. Treatment is partial without the need for a structured and long-term free continuation in treatment although eating disorders qualify as a severe chronic psychosomatic disease. Despite the involvement of different institutions and experts in this problem, they are not enough to specialize in the treatment of these disorders. There are no official statistics, precise epidemiological data, enough public health events, the necessary literature in the area. Treatment of eating disorders should be in the reference centres with a consular approach to sufficiently subspecialised physicians and other healthcare professionals for this clinical entity, which is a practice in the world. Treatment of eating disorders is both challenging and challenging, and involves a multidisciplinary approach by different experts. First of all, psychiatric treatment and supervision of internalists, nutritionists and various other experts are needed. The treatment process is usually long-term and depends on the condition of the patient and the duration of the disease, and the percentage of complete healing is low. One of the oldest organizations that has helped the sick in the diet of the Hope Association has been officially there since 2002. The association has been without space and money for years to work as a complement to insufficient institutional treatment. Without enough literature in Croatian they are also with a shut down website. There are only phones available that are hard to maintain and Facebook profile of Nada Zagreb Association. They meet in cafes in the Flower Square, doing the first triage, assist advisoryly and free copies of basic literature in Croatian, which they wrote alone with a group of doctors who have been helping the association for years. For other activities that you would like to do such as education, lectures, stronger information and sensitivity of the public, preventive action, individual and group work with doctors who would be free of charge for the sick and their families have no space and financial resources. It is now the “Hope” association that is one of the 200 activists organisations from 45 countries who decided today to be the World Day of Food Disorders Action. To date, nearly 12,000 patients have gone through the association, and their families have been unnecessarily deceased because of the non-treatment of the comorbidity, the suicide of 2100 patients. For 10 years on Flower Square, our entire society has been alerted every day about a large number of children, girls, girls and women who are literally discriminated against in their right to quality treatment. For ten years, they have not received any funds for their volunteer and human work. Let's help them with donations, with concrete support. The Ministry of Health and the City of Zagreb must be more and more clearly involved. It is necessary to form treatment teams and a reference centre such as the one in Italy, Switzerland, so that the patients do not wander from clinic to clinic. The existing organisation of assistance in the Republic of Croatia is not enough. Let's all get involved together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103693	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the IDS, and the Honorable Representative Emil Daus will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103694	Thank you very much. About 10 days ago, some portals transferred the publication of a citizen on social networks how long it takes you to get on a train from Zagreb to Pula and what do you think, one line with 3 precedents and your trip by train from Zagreb to Pula takes 22 hours and 43 minutes, and on the condition that the train is not late, you can think of not being late, but about being late a little later. Let's go back to the duration of the trip, which means how long it takes you to drive from Zagreb to Pula, 8 hours and 48 minutes, provided it's not late, it means about 9 to 23 hours depends on how happy you are or which line you choose. And you know how long it took to drive from Zagreb to Pula some 40 years ago, even on a more business train across Slovenia, four hours and something smart enough. And as for delays, unfortunately, I bear witness from the first hand daily, there is virtually no day for children who travel to school by train in Istria due to train delays not to miss at least from the first school class. Today on Istrian railways, they ride diesel motor furniture over the age of 40. with problematic maintenance and frequent malfunctions. For regular conditions, 4 such furniture is required, and only 3 are available and it is known that only 2 are used when substituting bus transport. However, due to the regular lack of a single set of furniture, he is daily resorting to regular train delays in the way in which train rotations are used. To clarify, from May 1st to May 27th of the 20 working trains were 12 days late. The morning and school train is already leaving Pula with a delay of 50 minutes, in Pazin late 65 minutes, children are late for the first school hour, in Lupoglav late 60 minutes, children are late for the second school hour, and there are problems with other trains, they are longer driving for failures, there were 7 cancelled trains or substitution on Pula-Buset route. And today I won't, even though I should have wood and stone all over everyone irresponsible, I won't be out of line with some colleagues who listened to us just three years ago. when, as the IDS Club, we began to sensitize the public as to the problem of railways in Istria, which is not in any strategic document of the Republic of Croatia. Some of the ruling ones got involved, some year after they tried to solve the problem together, mostly here I think of my colleague Kleman, and that is why in terms of modernising or building a modern Istrian railway, I will be a little more patient, but I will not be patient with what can be done right away, and that is to urgently deliver to the Pula depot sufficient number of diesels of motor furniture. Well, gentlemen of the HH-passage, aren't you really ashamed to have such trains driving you to Istria in 2022? And there aren't enough of them? And secondly, train crossings. For years, it has been promising to solve this major security and traffic problem. A little over a year ago, the officials said they would modernise 7 crossings in the Istrian County as part of the World Bank project. It's not a large number when considering a few dozen needed, but at least it should be a good start. But they did not start well, at one crossing in Pazin, a very frequent, road railway crossing has been set up by a new electric system of lifting and landing ramps, only that they have not set the ramps on it, so that for three months they have been raised and lowered only a metre long metal rods on which to mount the ramps, and parallelly they are still rising and descending existing ramps whose steering system has been manually from the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy when the railway was built in Istria. You do not need to emphasize what attraction it is to everyone while waiting for the train to pass, and only when they see what the train looks like because it is the same from the beginning of this speech with which children are late to school every day and with which they need between 9 and 23 hours of driving with 3 precedents depending on which line you choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103732	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS, HSU and independent MPs' Club, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103733	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The rule of our work should be here in HS think globally and act locally, but also think long-term, but spottably solve the problems that arise in this society right now. Why am I saying that? Because the rareness that happens these days in Croatian society is that a social group and a very important social group wants to do it, ask us to do it, it's students, but let us work so that we can earn more than 15 thousand kuna, and that our, legally, our parents don't lose that tax deduction per child, they ask for it. What is required by tourism employers, or what should tourism seek in this global offer? So in any case, our guests worship our originality, our authenticity, our language, our culture, our customs, the area where they come, some characteristics of that area, I know we won't be able to avoid importing workers, but let's, let's do as much work as possible in that tourism of our people know our young people, knowers of our customs let them work. That's why I am giving my support to the student choir to increase this border, they asked from 15,000 to 22,500, and I am supporting Croatia's tourism that also declares it. But I'm going to suggest something different, something more original, and that would be about 2 in 1. On the same track that they work, but to become insurance workers, to become real workers. The characteristic that he's a worker, and student work is that he's a security guard. So they're working, and we don't have them in HZMO as insurance. What would that mean? This would mean that this paper should pay contributions for retirement, not for health care because as students they are insured, they do not need to be insured from work protection because the student service is obliged to provide them against injury at work, but they should pay contributions. That's why I'm going to suggest that this border rise to 45,000 kuna, and that all of them on all their receipts, the Student Service pays pension contributions for all the student employees. That they can collect a year of internships in three years, that their internship doesn't start at 31 when they eventually get hired but start when they start working because the work is really recognised when I am a security guard, if I'm not that far away, then I'm nowhere, then I work but I'm not a worker. Can we let that happen? I don't think we can. What I suggest is a clean win for the Republic of Croatia. So not a lot of finance ministers lost that they increased the tax deduction price from 15 to 45 thousand earnings, and received contributions to pension, pension insurance in the same cash register. It also increases its incomes, and those who will work tomorrow, who will work tomorrow, will have an internship and eventually get conditions for a more decent pension than they are now realising or hoping for. Yes, I will support what I said in the parliamentary majority and I will advocate for students to be workers and insurance workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103753	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers will speak the esteemed representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u103754	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The latest tragic accident of road 182 on Sunday 29.5. is another one in a series of recent years of increasingly frequent aircraft accidents, mostly small private aircraft. Unfortunately, the fall of small private aircraft almost always leads to the death of people. In order to increase the safety of air traffic, States in this area need to intervene urgently because certain security segments are still missing and literally cloudy despite changes in legislation. On the one hand, there is an excellent legal arrangement for flying drones that is even more than administratively regulated while at the same time aircraft are almost invisiblely used in uncontrollable airspace of the Republic of Croatia. The airspace in the Republic of Croatia is divided into a layer of free flight, lower and upper airspace. Within the free flight layer, flights are allowed according to the rules of visual flight and separation is applied as a principle of sight and avoid, and extends to a height of 300 metres above the field, which is so-called. Uncontrollable airspace. In aircraft flying within that airspace, unfortunately, there is no obligation to use transponders in that area. Therefore, up to 300 metres of aircraft flying according to the rules of visual flight are de facto invisible air navigation control. In particular, the absurdity of such legislation comes under the new legal obligation to use transponders or devices that allow identification of drones, even the smallest grammages that are mostly flying at altitudes below 120 metres, while, at the same time, small aircraft such as the said Cesna are not subject to the obligation to use transponders below 300 metres. Such a lack of legal solution raises a number of questions from endangering the sovereignty of our country because everyone can cross our border unless they are reported in flight control and to the frequent endangerment of air traffic security. Personally, I fly the same boat sometimes, sticking to all the regulations, using one of the best and... app on the world market, which is the result of Croatian intelligence, is the AMC portal of Croatian air navigation control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may be the best tool in the world to publish flight reservations information to end-users, and it is in fact a united civil and military focus point to the competent and daily tactical airspace management in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, although this application is simple and transparent for use and imagined as a tool that will provide in real time full information on the use of airspace above the Republic of Croatia so significantly contribute and increase security it is significantly compromised in spite of its best intentions due to the lack of obligation to use transponders in case of small aircraft. Aeroplanes flying without the use of transponders according to the rules of visual flight in the application are practically invisible, which means that they are invisible to Croatia's air navigation control. I must mention that the pressure of general sports aviation has been taking a long time to further expand the layer of free flight to significantly higher altitudes in order to avoid the obligation to install tansporders and radio communications equipment into their aircraft. Already almost tomorrow in the Croatian sky, we will have new military aircraft with a value of several dozen million euros that do not endanger drones because this segment is too regulated than the lack of legal arrangements for small, small aircraft flying. As a society, we were always afraid of new and change, and we ignored inherited and established illogicalities and threats that are, which should raise a number of questions only when they happen in a series of accidents often along with human victims. The state within its airspace must have complete and unbreakable sovereignty, strictly control the flight of aircraft within the airspace of the States, which is now happening without the knowledge and control of the state where the airspace belongs. As regards air traffic safety issues, all aircraft flying within the airspace must have and use transponders such as to increase traffic safety and to avoid already annual small aircraft accidents that are often owned by foreign persons and undeclared flight plans. Now flying in a free flight layer is allowed by aircraft that have previously been proven correct even without handing over a flight plan or reservation of space. And the supervision of such flight is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Air Force and the PDO. The separation in that layer shall be conducted on the basis of the above principle on the eve of the avoidance, which is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113447	Good afternoon, everyone! Let's start with greetings. Here with us are students and students and their teachers and teachers of the Humanist High School of Zagreb. Let's give them a round of applause, please. Based on Article 247. [[Applause.]] The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice suggest that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2020 and a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2021. These two reports are being discussed unitedly. Do you agree? Does anyone mind? No, I don't. So that's what we're going to do. It'll come to a turn later, and now it's the first point of today's agenda. This is - Proposal for a law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute serious crimes, first reading, P.Z. No. 277. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Like I said, it's first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Here with us is the Secretary of State Mr Zdravko Zrinasic in front of the Ministry of Finance. Will he take the word? What? Stanku, that's good. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy. He's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113448	Thank you. Croatian citizens are tired of corruption, Croatian citizens, yes, that your HDZ colleagues are well but Croatian citizens suffer your policies. They suffer the fact that in this country not everyone is equal to the law, that there are those who are protected, those who have your party's membership card and those who are not hit by the IRS and our institutions. It is just Plenkovic's Ministry of Finance that the disproportionateness of property can only be explored for the last five years and that each year we lose a year we can explore. And not only that, Minister Maric tried to reduce the percentage that is taken away from those who have disproportionate property. We warned him then that this was not a good way, at least he listened to us here. But about these years, it hasn't. Many Croatian citizens are calling for a law on the origin of property. It may be a good way, but it certainly needs to be possible for the IRS to explore the disproportionateness of property over a longer period of time. It is enough that we have Paladin and others who have acquired property in one suspicious way, then rewarding them with ministerial posts to protect themselves from those they have deceived from their Russian partners. Or the fact that we have Minister Ćorić, whom his assistant, or right hand, is charged with crime, and then be rewarded with a place in the Croatian National Bank. With that kind of practice, we'll stop soon. All those responsible will answer to the institutions of this country. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113449	You've made yourself clear, Mr. Grmoya. Of course the break is approved. Mrs. Katarina Peovic is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113450	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front to look back at this bill, but also what was said. Yes, so the Law on the Origin of Assets is welcomed and he has on several occasions been referred to the parliamentary procedure, but not in the form that those who cannot prove their property are taxed. That property needs to be taken away. So anyone who can't really prove how he got his property must be punished in some way must be processed. This law is an example of how we actually cannot determine whether someone has come illegally to their property or not, because what? So even though it's a single account register, the law says there won't be traffic data available. I don't really know, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State how then you can even come up with the purpose of this law, which is to prevent criminal acts. I agree, of course, and I think what's said about Paladin is good. Why? Because we're having an excellent situation with Paladin, even with a clapping HDZ. We have a minister who's a prototype of a corrupt HDZ. So he's an example of teaching and teaching, not just studying, but teaching how to get property, how to solve workers, how to get high, rich real estates, and all legal. So here, and in this law, we're going to discuss from this perspective how much he can do about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113451	Thank you. The apartment is of course approved. Mr. Ante Bačić... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113452	Article 238 has been injured, my colleague Peovic I am deeply in this topic, there is a difference between in this topic [[Deep, I didn't hear, deep.]] In darkness yes, yes [[Intruder: A in theme.]] I don't know what they're like to you. [[- Okay, okay.]] Well, what are the pictures in your head? [[No, no, I didn't hear.]] Honored Vice President [[I didn't hear, I didn't hear.]] there is a difference between disproportionate assets and illegally acquired assets. [[Intruder: You are deeply in this topic and...]] Irrespective of property is taxed, and illegally acquired property is taken away here I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113453	The time, thank you very much, goes by default notice because it was a replica. Mrs. Peovic also needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113454	So 238 means injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113455	A reminder of course to Mr. Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113456	I didn't refer to you at all. So this wasn't a replica of you, we had other constituencies and parties like that. You know who it's about. So it's about those proposals for the return of that law on the origin of property where the disproportionate property, not only illegally acquired property, would be treated as something that can actually be called off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113457	Thank you very much, whether it was a replica or not, it's not up to me. And I decide it was a replica, so you get a warning. Mr. Ante Bacic, now it's a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113458	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I mean, we got off on the wrong foot. So we have before us a proposal and a Ministry of Finance, a proposal for a law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute serious crimes which is one in a series of regulations and laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted or proposed to the Croatian Parliament both for discussion and for adoption. We have often discussed here topics that here from the opposition often shift to HDZ that, not to deal with corruption and crime and serious criminal acts of particularly financial nature, I think we have proved the opposite by changing and supplementing a series of regulations. When we look at only the Ministry of Finance, but when we look at the Ministry of Justice and the Administration of Reform that has been filed and the law itself on preventing conflicts of interest where we have extended certain deadlines and powers, but also all regulations on the subject. As far as this law itself is concerned, I do not believe that the opposition will find a grudge and that it will ultimately be against it because it is now going, going in the direction in which they are calling for themselves to investigate and investigate. Here we also extend the delirious bodies themselves from the State's Attorney's Office, Customs, the Tax Administration that will be able to access both accounts and safes and all other mechanisms of concealing serious financial crimes. So here I am also calling at this short stop and the opposition to think a little bit, and I believe that it will ultimately support this bill because this is the way to just prevent and control serious financial crimes and corrupting possible crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113459	Thank you very much. It's okay to take a break. Mr. Grmoy's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113460	Article 238 has been injured, counterpart Bacic has been a little confused saying that we are from the opposition to HDZ that he is not dealing with corruption and criminal acts enough. No, we, out of opposition, urge you to deal with corruption and criminal acts on a daily basis, which is certainly not good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for the state budget, county and local budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113461	Okay, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course it was a replica. Mrs. Peovic. It's a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113462	238, 238, infringement of the Rules of Procedure A colleague of Bacic's. [[Intruder: Second.]] You mentioned that you expanded the fight against corruption and that is no less than you mention the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I would remind you that from that law on that list of those who fall under that law suddenly mystically when the law was created, it began to disappear who falls under that Law to prevent conflicts of interest. So you quickly threw out the heads of the hospital clinic. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113463	Do not continue because of the time and injury of the Rules of Procedure because it was a replica for the same reasons. Mr. Bacic, do you have an injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113464	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238, both colleagues, I think I'm going to put this one mildly to the point that they're telling a lie and you should have warned them. Here, specifically related to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, never extends the list of officials who are bonds of that law, never more restrictive and larger deadlines. I call on you to come to me and do a little analysis of the entire EU about preventing conflicts of interest. I think we have the strictest and most rigorous law... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113465	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. If the Rules of Procedure were true, it would be a philosophical symposium, unfortunately it does not deal with the truth, and I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Mrs. Wesna Nadj in this case looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club to point out once again whether we have legal and adequate control of controllers so that our human rights are guaranteed by the Constitution, so that it is not demoted under the cover of the implementation of this Directive, and in fact in order for citizens' personal data to be used on choices for which they are not intended, whether data on consumer habits, investments, responsibilities, or how the directive cites sensitive data regarding racial, ethnic origin, political opinion, religious or philosophical beliefs or membership in trade unions or data relating to health, sex life or sexual orientation of a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113467	Thank you very much. It's okay to take a break. Mr. Zeljko Sacic is also taking a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113468	I propose a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes in order to point out once again to the Croatian public and to all of you that this proposed law has certain major dilemmas and doubts and is falling short of the standards of our repressive bodies' treatment in the face of crime. For example, here, fully wide open doors to the Personal Data Protection Agency in cases where suspicions of a serious crime have been established, and we place ourselves on the table, on the menu of all people who run the Personal Data Protection Agency who are not, for this criminal part, neither competent nor professional, nor have passed certain security checks, this is the first. And secondly, it is incomprehensible that the Proposer gives a report on his work after a year to the European Commission or the Ministry of Justice, and not to the Croatian Parliament, there is no obligation of such and other details, so we must think very carefully about offering certain solutions to complete this law for the benefit of effectively combating crime in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113469	It approves of a break of course, and now, on behalf of the motionary, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Zdravko Zrinašić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113470	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. As pointed out in the introduction of this proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the EU Directive of 2019 is transposed under No. 1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect and/or prosecute certain offences. The Directive facilitates access by financial intelligence units and competent authorities to financial and other information, all in order to increase the effectiveness of the persecution of financial and criminal offences and mutual cooperation between the competent authorities. The said directive also lays down rules to provide EU citizens with a higher level of security by preventing and combating crime. Namely, due to their transnational nature, terrorist and criminal threats affect the EU as a whole, and require a response at EU level since criminal groups and individuals can benefit from the lack of effective use of information on bank accounts and financial information in a Member State and, consequently, in another Member State, to benefit from such a situation. What is the current situation in terms of the legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia? I would say this, which is also the esteemed representative of fellow Sacic, this noted that law enforcement authorities are now functioning and exchanging data at the level of all Member States of this EU and the world, so I will briefly repeat and extract what is obtained in relation to this directive. Therefore, Member States currently support cross-border investigations into the activities of transnational criminal organisations provided by Europol. In this context, Europol shall inform Member States of all information and links between criminal acts concerning those Member States through Europol national units, in our case it is the Europol department in the MUP. On the other hand, the competent authorities of the Member States shall, on a justifiable request, provide Europol with information on the bank accounts found...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113471	Mr. Zrinasic, just, just one second. Mr. Vrkljan, Mr. Vrkljan, I'm sorry, but there, MPs tell me I can't hear well. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113472	Thank you very much. On the other hand, the competent authorities of the Member States shall, on a justifiable request, provide Europol with information on the bank accounts contained in the National Bank Account Registers. In particular, the Law simplifying the exchange of data between the authorities of the EU Member States responsible for implementing the 2015 law. simplifys the exchange of data between the Croatian authorities in whose jurisdiction the prevention and detection of criminal offences and the competent authorities of the EU Member States is for the purpose of carrying out reconnaissance and investigation of criminal offences, and the search and determination of the property benefit acquired by criminal offences. The Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism also provides for the cooperation of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Criminal Persecution with the aim of preventing money laundering and related predicate crimes and terrorist financing. What is wanted by this bill? This proposal therefore further empowers the domestic authorities to collect and exchange data contained in the single account register and to further authorise the collection of data from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering with the aim of preventing, detecting or pursuing serious criminal offences. In this case, there is no need for suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, meaning only in that initial, even at that initial stage, and in the context of what fellow Sacic well noted about the agency itself, so the usual work on pre-examination procedures will collect data from the single account register. What is that register, the unique account register anyway? It is as such a centralised register and is being conducted at the FINA, and the formation and management has stemmed from regulations governing the implementation of the budget implementation. So it's a register already established and functioning in the context of the performance and applied in the context of the exercise, and only here are the law enforcement authorities relying on the data we have in that register. The unique, therefore, register contains accounts, contains basic account data in terms of the name of the bank, the number of accounts, the date of opening and closing, and the identification data of bank account holders, about persons authorised to have funds in the account, on the real owners of legal persons of account holders, and safes and natural, natural and legal persons. Data on the accounts of legal persons shall be made publicly available while data on accounts of natural persons of FINA shall be submitted on written request by the competent authority. With this proposal for a law, the competent authorities will, instead of accessing data so far, be entitled to direct electronic access to data from the register itself in order to carry out tasks for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or pursuing a serious crime or providing support for a criminal investigation of a serious crime involving the identification, monitoring and freezing of assets related to such an investigation. The very definition of a serious crime is attached to one EU Regulation 2016/794 and is attached to two of these laws. There is also a number of the thirty serious crimes that are being treated under that regulation. Also in addition to one of these laws of the day are so-called. Predictive crimes, these are crimes that are generally the source of the crime of money laundering. They're also numbered in our Penal Code, and there's 68 of them here. The most important issues covered by the bill are therefore determined by the competent authorities. This is, therefore, the police, the State Attorney's Office, the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration, and when carrying out activities to prevent the detection or prosecution of serious criminal offences initiated either by domestic information or by the requirements of foreign partners and in the sense of ensuring therefore direct electronic access to data in the register itself. Otherwise, the Directive itself allows the appointment of one or more bodies that will have the power to access information, banks and accounts directly at the moment, and to search that information to carry out all tasks for the purpose of preventing the detection or prosecution of serious criminal offences. Officials of the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration themselves are already in accordance with existing laws, so the Customs Service Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Criminal Procedure Act are authorised to detect and prevent criminal offences, and at the request of the competent State Attorney's Office, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. It is therefore important to note that the data kept in the single account register which the competent authorities will have direct access to at this stage and itself, therefore it is designed for the purposes of the exercise do not contain data on traffic by accounts, i.e. on the terms of those accounts, but only this general information that we have said, and in the context of implementation under the Law on criminal proceedings later on, the authorities may and should receive the data in another way. So in this register itself, we don't have data on balances by account or data, but only on owners and attorneys and everything we've said. So the information on the bank accounts that is in the single register run by the Financial Agency and which contains, so the data, here's the information I'm going to try to make a specific count. All accounts and hand-to-hand money, therefore, are not about how much money is provided, but you have a code that indicates that some money is armed. I'll tell you later. Residential savings and deposits in credit unions, safes of all natural and legal persons, real owners of legal persons, account holders, armed cash and safes. Physical persons authorised to have funds in their accounts, cashed-in assets, residential savings deposits and deposits in credit unions, as well as natural persons of safe users. Such competent authorities shall be empowered to supply data from this single register on a reasoned request from EUROPOL with a view to preventing transnational crime in the EU as a whole. Furthermore, this proposal provides for the delivery of financial analyses and information to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering on a reasoned individual request from the competent authority when these requirements are based on cases related to the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences. In practice, the law allows the national competent authority, for example, to request the competent authority of another Member State to provide financial analysis and information or information to the competent authority of another Member State. With regard to the protection of personal data which has been mentioned here, and in the law itself, this is explicitly stated by this draft law, the obligation of the competent authorities and financial agencies to keep a record of any request and access to information under this law is prescribed. On request, the record will be made available to the Personal Data Protection Agency for the purpose of carrying out operations within the scope of the delirious and jurisdiction laid down by the Law implementing the General Data Protection Regulation. In particular, the provisions on the protection of personal data under this Act apply the rules laid down in the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons with regard to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing research, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions. As I have initially said in the context of the Personal Data Protection Agency itself, of course, she and her staff have an obligation to keep those data. But as the data is collected here in pre-examination, it is not already a constraint in terms of a particular criminal or criminal offence, but only an exchange in the context of certain persons at Member State level. We believe that in the event of the application of an individual who thinks that his data has been disclosed to another institution in accordance with another regulation that regulates the work of the Data Protection Agency, such an agency in this case, the Data Protection Agency is obliged to respond in accordance with the positive regulation that regulates their work. Furthermore, as regards monitoring the effectiveness of the fight against serious crime, the Republic of Croatia examines the effectiveness of carrying out financial investigations in the context of the fight against serious criminal offences, the conduct of comprehensive statistics. In this case, as mentioned earlier, all these bodies that I've counted collect and keep statistics according to the law and once a year deliver them to the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice shall process, collect and deliver the data to the European Commission once a year, and that part and act shall be regulated by Articles 16 and 17 of this Act. In the context of possible issues and doubts whether this law will cause changes for citizens in business, etc. no change is expected, given that even now the law which is in the sense of the exercise has regulated the introduction of a register of accounts is functioning and the data is exchanged with regard to the executives. We don't see any problems that would affect individuals in any way. Here it is in the context of the very transposition of this directive. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113473	Thank you, too. You have a series of replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113474	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here you yourself have said that this bill allows, apart from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering now and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Tax and Customs Administration, as well as the Ministry of Customs that, for the purpose of preventing the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences, they can have direct insight into financial accounts. However, what may not be known is that a large part of this bill has been fulfilled by the Republic of Croatia and that we have established a single account register since 2002, and since 2011 consumer accounts have been in the register. So, a lot has already been implemented in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and it has already been spent for many years, so perhaps if you can say so about that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113475	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113476	Thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113477	Mr. Zrinasic, I must give you my word, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113478	Thank you very much. What you said is not true. As far as the directive itself is concerned, when we took part in this case, the department of one of the MUPs was involved in the work of the European body of the EU regarding the drafting of the directive itself, we stressed that as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we have more and less ensured everything in the work, the regular work of already existing bodies, and that this directive itself, in the context of the work of our bodies, will not have any significant shifts because it itself is a register of truth for the will as I have repeated several times, it was founded on regulations that regulate the exercise. But that doesn't mean we're going to do 7 registers, this register is also used because there are all the data that are necessary for this exchange. On the other hand, we expect great help from those Member States that do not have it, and for our citizens who eventually have accounts in, with themselves and the data on them, what accounts They have... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113479	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113480	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, just about the data in that unique account register, we see that this bill extends and the bodies that will have insight into the financial situation itself of our citizens all for the purpose of normal prevention of serious criminal and economic crimes. There is also a small concern about GDPR and personal data in comments. I'm interested in your position. The Ministry's position on how problematic this is. If everything is in line, will there be any problem with the very protection of our citizens' private data, as I repeat, we also extend the number of bodies that will have insight, thus extending the normal number of employees and officials who will be able to handle the data of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113481	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113482	Thank you very much. This extension of the number of bodies is essentially not extended but the way in which the register is entered has changed. By now, getting into the register would have been on request. It will now have a direct entry but subject to the information monitoring of the entry of this body, or before this law, information will have to be reported on the person authorised to enter the system from any body we just said, which is the police, tax, customs, lawyers and who will search the data. That's what the records are about, I say electronic non-changeable records that will know exactly why they were coming in and when they were coming in. So there's no fundamental change and so far they're just on demand asking for it the same thing. Now they have direct access, but also those persons who will enter must be screened, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113483	Thank you. Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the law states that the competent authority and the financial agency are setting up technical and organisational measures to ensure the highest level of data protection against unauthorised access and theft. Do you think that FINA, that it actually has administrative and personnel potentials to, to ensure these measures of the highest degree of data protection, is more so than the State Audit Office gave a conditional opinion in 2019 on, therefore, on FINI and its business since it did not have an audit department.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113485	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113486	Thank you very much. On this conditional opinion you yourself said it went in another context related to the revision, etc., as regards the register itself, it is informative because it is the essence and work itself, FINE itself. So information security, so the barriers set up in terms of authorized access to and search for a register. Compared to these many years of almost 10 years or how many years we've had a register, I don't remember there being an application in the context of individuals who complained that their data leaked unauthorized to a third party. We therefore believe that on the information side, the register itself is so set up that it is of quality and that it will have these security protocols sufficiently set up to protect individuals in terms of unauthorized access.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113487	Thank you. The bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113488	Dear Secretary of State, I have a question for you. We have a register of real owners of a company that doesn't work in reality. We had the case of the godmother Maria Kapulice, Goran Puklin, who was the real owner of a company that was doing business with the Croatian lottery and it was not revealed that he was the real owner or that he was the hidden owner of the company, that he was making a profit until it entered his safe. So the secret owners of the company still cannot know about them under this law that we have even though they make a profit based on this participation in ownership. When do you intend to change that? As a club MOST, we are not only critics but we have also made a legal proposal asking that all owners of the company, including those secret announcements, and that they be this one that can be reached. That you don't have to go into safes in private apartments. When are you gonna change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113489	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113490	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed I am the law and only the way in which the data is filled in the register is set up so that otherwise at this point if someone who is a secret member will not report it for some reason we have to report services through other reconnaissances and ways of collecting data to come up with such data but we have one problem which is not a problem but is set up in the Law on Commercial Society of Art. 148 to 157 of the law which states the provisions, that I am not reading them now, in the context of secret property, of a secret society, that it cannot make legal persons with third parties, that in the name and account it cannot even conduct business, business, business of a secret society, therefore the norm arising from the Commercial Society Act, which the Institute has recognised and allowed, and then if such a thing recognises the Law on Commercial Society, of course, that this procedure, in the context of further registers, cannot be used, and if certain regulations are originally permitted, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113491	Thank you very much. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113492	Thank you, Your Honor. We often hear politics is a marathon, not a sprint. This law is actually proof of this, this is a small step in which freedoms of Croatian citizens, economic freedoms above all that are very important for political life because if there is no economic freedom, there is no political freedom. And a Brussels-based directive that once again wants to use these laws to build a tower of cards from a federally arranged EU is proof of their incompetence. You've stressed here that this law, first of all, refers to terrorism. I don't know what terrorist problems we have in Croatia except that they call themselves national, national security committees about rotten eggs that are being published on Facebook, and you don't give enough space to corruption and crime, it's obviously a painful point to this government. What exactly will this do and prevent, in which way will you, with insight into citizens' personal finances, prevent crime in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113493	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113494	Thank you very much. As you know, the directive itself is set as a norm at EU level, perhaps some Member States do not have certain problems that some other Member States have. Also, spilling crime from one country to another is not only a Member State but the world is not limited by borders, nor by regulations, nor by laws or by setting standards at the level of the world is much, much better if we have a level playing field in this legislation, and regardless of whether God has given us any terrorist act, but setting the law itself was the purpose of equating norms at the EU level and, of course, beyond. I will repeat, therefore, the tasks for preventing and detecting the investigation or persecuting serious crimes, the serious crimes that are listed here and which God forbid if they happen to be able to provide information we do not have or have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113495	Thank you. Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113496	Dear Secretary of State, in Art. 8th and Art. Article 13 of the proposed law regulates relations between the Office for the Prevention of Money and the exchange of information with users or other competent authorities. 8. says the office may reserve the right to refuse a reasoned request if it considers that it is not proportionate to the legal interest of a natural and legal person, and in Article 8. 13. Even says Europol can refuse to supply that data and analysis if I quote it would undermine national security. Now the question is, does it really bother me if the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is qualified enough for him to recognize this national security aspect, which he consults, given SOA consults, how, isn't that not written here, how will he find out?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113497	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113498	Thank you very much. As you yourself know, the system for preventing money laundering is not only the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering but also this particular body that you mentioned yourself, in itself, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering does not act as isolated as some single unit in this context. This is why these standards are incorporated into the law itself, they come from other regulations that regulate the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and there are several directives, our law in which certain restrictions are explicitly imposed there in the context of the fight against money laundering and related crimes so-called crime. Predicative crimes related to money laundering and specifically in the context of the processing if evidence is collected in connection with tax evasion, and it is later used for, say, money laundering cannot be used in a court of law because you have collected it under a crime of money laundering and then there are fuses placed here so that it does not illegally acquire evidence and tomorrow it falls in the process, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113499	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113500	Dear Proposer, in your debate, you have made it clear that we have data, that we can use it all today, it is my simple question, and we have all the problems we have in terms of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the main thing you mentioned was that no one actually complained about the use of data and that you consider it good, so I'm asking you how can a citizen even know that someone was using his data? That is what is crucial, I fully agree that such a law should, that it should be even at the level of the world, that the task of the state is to protect both the state and the individual and then the key question goes, who protects that individual from the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113501	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113502	Thank you very much for your question. Maybe now, as I said, but I believe I was heading in the direction that I'm not sure it was this one, I don't remember complaining or anything because I don't work at the agency for... Now I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, five years. the time limits laid down here for the storage of data in which either the Agency itself or the individual to whom this information is concerned may be required by, from the body that keeps the register of insight and to see where, where, where it is, where it is authorised in the context of certain other regulations, so that the fuses are placed so that someone can protect his or her rights. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Just as we can now as we speak, perhaps there's a service working on all of us here that we're talking about, and we don't know and we don't need to know, but at some point, it's allowed in accordance with the process of whether, at all, there's been a law on criminal proceedings, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113503	- Mrs. Crescent. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113504	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, and here is a clue to what my colleague Brumnić has asked the question, therefore, by means of the Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, in particular Article 40, it is specified that the security intelligence agencies are obliged, at the request of citizens, within 15 days by means of a written notice, to inform him whether secret collection measures are taken by him and whether records of his data are kept and, on his request, to put into account documents on collected data, with exceptional, of course, that the notice is not to be made if this would lead to the execution of the Agency's own tasks or to the threat of national security or to the threat of national interest of the Republic of Croatia. There is no such provision in this proposed law, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113505	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113506	Thank you very much. So why, you've now quoted me as not an expert on security and other regulations, but in the context of a directive that speaks about data exchange within the EU but at the level of so I would say even foregleaming because I stressed that there must not be already a phase of investigation or establishing a reasonable doubt that certain bodies can prevent their actions from exchanging data and, and direct their activities if another Member State gives him a positive or negative response or by giving him sufficient knowledge as to which direction they will go further. I don't see why this one would have to go to the level of this norm that some other regulation solves. If that other regulation is resolved, one layer will not overlap with another, such as the Constitution above all laws, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113507	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113508	My dear secretary, let's get something straight first. The unique account register has existed since 2002 since 1 April 2002 and has changed 2 times in 2011 and 2018. In 2018, it adapted to the European Directive and then, since then, data on safes and all other data related to both natural persons and legal persons are inside. Otherwise, this account register can be accessed online. And that register can be accessed by any person to see public data. However, the data of private persons or natural persons cannot be seen by anyone other than natural persons at the request given to the Agency. Now the question. My question is, why didn't you state in a law that the Founding Unit of the Ministry of Finance can access, given that you've given us which building unit the MUP can access, we already have two establishment units here, that's the Tax Administration and Customs Administration. We also have the Money Laundering Office. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why didn't you list other design units that could be accessed because they didn't have to access everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113509	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113510	No, thank you very much, as far as the register is concerned, you've noticed well, that direct entry for all legal persons, and for individuals of citizens on request. In this case now through this law this body that I mentioned will have direct. Maybe not, the first reading is, so I'm assuming that maybe it's this one and it's written like that, maybe it's misunderstood. So it is understood that it will be the police, the State's Attorney's Office, the IRS and the Customs Administration, the IRS and the Customs Administration. If it says otherwise please here, let this one, to write probably the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration. Well, I guess it's roofing because the component of this is inside like, well, we'll see if I say the point was to allow the IRS and the Customs Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113511	Thank you very much... No, I repeat once again there is no intended dialogue, I would like it to be, but there is no intended dialogue so then this speech please one, so answer the other and that is all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Gary Cappelli and correct his last name because that's how this one has, there's a bad ring to this one, here's Mr. Cappelli add I.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113512	Thank you very much for protecting the Vice President. State Secretary, therefore, in Croatia where data security is definitely not quite safe because we see that the media knows who will be arrested in the morning rather than who they will arrest. Always a little commendation in any case and the law should be supported, but that data security definitely given everything that happens to me always asks one question, questionnaire big. Will it and how will it be used and how much? We know very well about the fulfillment of conflicts of interest and all that we have, so somehow we see it relatively simply, but the citizens certainly do not. The third is what interests me most, co-ordination with third countries that are outside the EU. So someone created here some money, in suitcases not to say export out to BiH, Serbia or somewhere and there is immense Rich. [[Thank you very much.]] How do you handle that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113513	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113514	Thank you very much. A little bit more, more topics, but it is clear in which direction, therefore, the security of data that requires, in the sense of individuals on the one hand, that the authorities, state bodies or law enforcement bodies can function in proportion to their powers, that those powers do not abuse in some third sense, that these data do not come to an understanding of whom, and this is unauthorized. That's why I was glad that fellow Sacic was going with his question in the direction of exactly when the law was being set up that if I, as a body, were looking for the information for a purpose that I had stated there, and I use it for the third information tomorrow, would not be able to be used in court as evidence. Of course, that, in this law, was put in order to give the name and last name of this person information about the person who asked for the exchange of information and why she asked for and when she asked for it. These data are being kept, and in the context of this fight against crime, it's clear from when God and the world are going to, this is going to happen but to try to get us a better society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113515	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113516	Dear Secretary of State, I would first comment that today, unfortunately, terrorism and all such illegal criminal activities and activities are being carried out with money laundered. And today all those who were once criminals and something like that have become mostly entrepreneurs today. It's not just a Croatian case. It's a world phenomenon. So if we're going to make these kind of illegal money transfers, I think we're just going to include a smaller amount of it, because this money today is going to be in some legal channels, and by this law, it's going to be able to circulate normally. I am interested in the fact that this is a 2019 directive, and I assume that many EU members have already been included in their legislation, what are the experiences of these countries, whether there have been any results, whether some transfer of money has been prevented which is, in fact, foreseen by this directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113517	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113518	Thank you very much. So the very directive you've noticed has been passed on to the 19th. The deadline is about two years for implementation. With us not yet, Denmark, Ireland, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Finland have transposed it into legislation, but I believe we will succeed until before the summer break and do so. Experience itself comes first and foremost, because data from a Member State are sent to the European Commission, which processes these data and then agrees to facilitate the exchange of data within the Member States. This is what is immediately seen from the very functioning of the approach so far. First of all, some of the Member States that have missed have had to make an account register where we have been, so for twenty years we have had a register that has been made true for the purpose of the exercise but is used for other purposes. So, I'd say it's something that facilitates the work of a law enforcement body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113519	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas for now. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. Mr. Nikola Grumoja, Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113520	Dear colleagues and colleagues, instead of discussing mechanisms here, about the legal changes that will strengthen our independent institutions, we are discussing how to improve cooperation with EUROPOL, providing them with information on bank accounts. We had a situation that one of the objects that was dead in our DORH, it's a case against former Minister Žalac, Plenkovic's favorite, has just come to life with the initiative of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And what's scandalous is that our DORH did not, and it had an obligation under the EU regulation, did not actually provide information about this case of the Gralac and the investigations that were being investigated, which were being conducted within our USKOK and the DORH. And what was that about? The attorney general first lied that these tests were before she became the attorney general and that she was not familiar with the case, that she would admit here on my question that in July of the month she was on her desk after she became chief state attorney, that she was aware of everything and that our DORH was hiding the subject not only from the Croatian public, but also from the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I would be happy if we didn't need these European institutions, but obviously it's the only way that corruption and crime can rule by coming under the lights of the reflectors, under the lights of the public. And here I asked the secretary of state what to do with the secret owners of the company. He says I've got certain laws arranged, we can't do that. You got it! Here is the club MOST's proposal, so the amendments, the draft law amending the law on money prevention and terrorist financing, ask that all secret owners of companies be made public in the register. Because even though they don't run societies, they make a profit. And I've set an example here. Goran Puklin, the husband of the arrested state's attorney, together with Zeljko Fadljevic, had a company called Flexbit. The company achieved millions in business with Croatia's lottery. At the same time, Željko Fadljević was the director of Croatia's logistics lottery and himself, setting up jobs for his company. Both he and Puklin have nice money in their pocket and they pay for it, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because the Croatian lottery is a state-owned company. Do you know how Fadljević was appointed to the Croatian lottery as director of logistics? It's the same thing that came out in this Janaf affair, the leg of the Janaf affair. When Puklina Uskok's investigators caught his cell phone and found in his cell a message that Puklin sends to his godfather, one of the prominent HDZ MPs, Mario Kapulica, in which he says this is how the SMS message goes. That's what the media said. I don't have any special information to keep you from getting scared. "That Zeljko Fadljević I brought you for lunch and we were in your office together is set up in Croatia's lottery." Puklin writes "Capoulics." Based on whose authority does Puklin put people in Croatia's lottery? Well, based on Capulic's authority. The one I brought to you for lunch and the one we were together in the office is now the director of logistics in Croatia's lottery. Both Fadljević and Puklin have a company where they are secret owners and get jobs with the Croatian lottery. That's the problem. If I want to deal with corruption, so we publish a register of real company owners, we publish this register, not only those who manage companies, but also those who earn profits for the business of these companies, such as Fadljević and Puklin. Otherwise the company was on some guy I can't remember right now is a familiar last name, but he's an unknown man. It was run by him, he was like the real owner who ran the company, and these two were secret owners who made profits and arranged jobs with the Croatian lottery, and so that Flexbit prospered. These are the problems with this, with this fight with corruption, and we will not remain in words alone. So, we're going to make concrete suggestions like this and not only that, in that register of real company owners you when you enter your name is recorded. Watch it, watch someone, and record who you've been watching and who's watching. Why is that? Why is that? It must be anonymous and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, every investigative journalist, every politician must have access to it if we want to deal with corruption. So transparency is a lobby, a prerequisite for fighting corruption. And on that we will insist, and these, copying these European regulations will not lead us anywhere. It is one subjective mentality that thinks that by fulfilling this country's tasks it will make a prosperous country, it will not. Until we have politicians in power positions who do not tremble before the invitations of foreign embassies, who do not look at their career interests in Brussels or elsewhere, there is no future for this country. Here's an example. The EU court in the case of franc-related Croatian consumers makes a decision washing hands from Croatian consumers. In the case of Hungarian and Polish consumers, the decision in favour of them shall benefit. Why? Well, because in Poland and Hungary, the government stood behind its people, and our government said when people signed the conversion that they were, in fact, compensated. That's the key. It means not that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is struggling with corruption in Croatia but that we are dealing with corruption in Croatia, to arrange our country to the extent that every citizen of its own does not care whether someone has a HDZ membership card, SDP, MOST any other political option, in which it does not matter whether someone has financial power, social influence or something like that, but in which everyone will be treated equally in front of the institutions of this country. That's what we're going to do, that time is getting closer, that's why the attacks are this big on the Most, so we have this on-call troll that's in charge, so now it's, now it's out who's in charge of the attacks, attacking the Most, so here it's all good. Everything is going well. My message to the citizens is optimistic. Just bravely, head upstairs, we'll get rid of these corrupt clicks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113521	Mrs. Vesna Nadj will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute serious crimes. It transposes Directive 2019/1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Directive is a legislative act setting out the objective that all EU Member States must achieve. However, each Member State shall decide independently how that objective will be achieved. The aim that should be achieved by implementing this Directive is to increase security, improve the pursuit of financial offences, combat money laundering and prevent tax offences in Member States and across the EU. Criminal offenders, especially criminal groups and terrorists, often operate in different Member States, and their property including bank accounts is often located in other Member States. Given the cross-border dimension of serious criminal offences for competent authorities carrying out criminal investigations in one Member State, it is often necessary to access information on bank accounts in other Member States. The Directive states that direct access is the fastest type of access to information stored in centralised bank account registers. Rules should therefore be laid down to approve direct access to information stored in centralised bank accounts registers of designated Member States' authorities responsible for preventing, detecting, investigating or law enforcement. In any event, appropriate personal data protection measures should be applied. Only authorised personnel should have access to information containing personal data that can be obtained in centralised bank account registers or in the context of authentication procedures. The staff receiving access to such sensitive data should undergo training on security practices relating to the exchange of data and handling of data. We have no information whether staff of public authorities who will receive access to such sensitive data in the Republic of Croatia have passed the training on security practices relating to the exchange of data and handling of data. It is clear that the implementation of this Directive requires the establishment of mechanisms for improving, improving the fundamental rights of the EU, such as the right to respect for private and family life, the right to the protection of personal data, the prohibition of discrimination, freedom of entrepreneurship, the right to action, effective legal remedy and fair trial, the presumption of innocence and the right to defence, the principles of legality and proportionality of criminal offences and penalties as well as the fundamental rights and principles provided for by international law, international agreements and the constitutions of Member States. The proposal for this law lays down that the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the MUP will have a direct and non-refundable access to information on bank accounts contained in the single account register, in order to carry out tasks to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute a serious crime or provide support for a criminal investigation involving the identification, monitoring and freezing of property related to such investigations. Those bodies will have direct access to the identification data of bank account holders, persons authorised to make available funds on the account, on the real owners of the account holders and on the safes of natural and legal persons. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is a financial intelligence unit of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these bodies, together with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a Financial Intelligence Unit of the Republic of Croatia, should strengthen interinstitutional cooperation in order to bring faster criminal and criminal prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, in particular corrupt criminal offences, because we need the ultimate goal of returning stolen public money to the budget, not that criminals hide money after serving a sentence get out of some hole and spending uninterruptedly if they ever end up behind bars. In the light of the proposal for a law, it is stated that the data kept in the single account register that the competent authorities will have direct access to do not contain traffic data by account or account status. However, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 7 of the draft law states that financial information is any type of information or data on financial assets, the movement of funds or financial relationships at the disposal of a financial intelligence unit for the purpose of preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. It is clear that in a situation where the citizens of the state institution have little or no confidence, we can rightly suspect that there will be abuse of the financial data that those bodies will have and that they will not stop only on information relating to the information on the IBAN and the date on which the opening and closure of the accounts is made as indicated by this Directive. It was also the main comment in the e-consultation on the draft proposal for this law. The point is that this, the observation is that this bill prescribes significant coverage of private financial data, and that we have weak guarantees in the light of procedures to prevent the misuse of such data. Each citizen of the Republic of Croatia has his financial data as the most valuable data. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that each person is guaranteed the safety and secrecy of personal data without the consent of... , personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down by law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely in this bill that there is a lack of national, procedural and protective measures provided for in the Directive. Through e-consultation, it was also stated that any authority should be given to individual authorities, e.g. The customs administration and the police shall have unlimited access to personal financial data without adequate prior judicial control for the authorisation of such access being severely violated by the constitutional right to the presummation of innocence and to the protection of the rights of individuals to private life. The applicant accepted the above comments, but we do not see that he has implemented it in the draft law. This draft law provides for the obligation of the FIN to keep records of any access to information contained in the single account list or to search those data, as well as the content of the records. The records shall be made available to the Personal Data Protection Agency on request. The competent authority and the FINA shall establish technical and organisational measures to ensure the highest level of protection of persons, data protection against unauthorised access and theft. We believe that FINA does not have these administrative capacities to analyse and sanction the breach of data protection regulations against unauthorised access or to establish and ensure the highest level of data protection against unauthorised access and theft, especially as I said what it received from the State Audit Office in 2019. Then how can we actually trust the State Office for, in FINA given the opinion of the State Audit Office? There is always a fundamental question as I have said, whether we have legal and adequate control of controllers so that our human rights guaranteed by the constitution would not be diluted under the cover of the implementation of this and similar directive, and in fact in order for personal data of citizens to be used for purposes for which no data on consumer habits, investment, responsibilities, racial or ethical origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, membership in trade unions, or data relating to health, sex life or sexual orientation of a person. Therefore, access to such data should only be granted to persons who are specifically authorised and trained in accordance with applicable data protection procedures. It is therefore necessary, in any case, to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Criminal Procedure Act in such a way as to clearly and unequivocally indicate that access to such a species is permitted only and exclusively under the conditions under which authorities and prosecution authorities are authorised to carry out certain investigative actions. It is not disputed that public authorities as tax administrations and now have access to our financial data because every financial transaction passes through tax administration records, but such a bill gives both tax and customs administrations both to the Ministry and to the FIN's authority to dig up sensitive financial data without having any guarantees, nor a clear safeguard procedure to ensure that such financial data obtained will not be misused for purposes for which they have nothing to do with the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences. Therefore, the Social Democrats Club will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113523	Mr. Ante Bacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113524	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard in the very explanation before us, the proposal for a Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute serious crimes. I must stress that this is one in a series of rules of law and tomorrow regulations adopted by the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which are here for discussion, are also related to the normal strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the implementation of certain directives to which we have been committed by the European Council and the European Parliament. In this case too, we are in fact implementing a directive relating to the law in question, which is to facilitate the use of financial and other information in order to prevent the investigation, detection or prosecution of certain criminal offences and normally put out of the power of the Council's decision. As regards the Directive itself, it makes it easier for the financial intelligence unit and the competent authorities to access that particular financial data and normally the competent authorities responsible for preventing the detection and investigation of such serious forms of criminal offences. And it is important to highlight this factor that we have committed ourselves to, but I think it makes it easier because we know that Croatia is both a member of the EU and certain associations, so that this international factor of this directive should also be highlighted, but also tomorrow this law when we adopt it. Because this is exactly the international co-operation we need regarding the competent authorities who are monitoring such financial data for the purpose of prosecution. We need it because we see for ourselves what kind of a global world we live in and how fast the information is spreading, but how crime, in particular, of this financial character, through the introduction and the online forms of business, has no borders and is often connected, there are often certain crimes connected in several countries and the source is difficult to discover so that this is exactly the kind of international cooperation, but also the extension of certain bodies that have access to such information and that is very important. As regards the law itself, it also establishes that bodies that will have direct access to information are directly and without compensation and information on bank accounts contained in something that we have talked a lot about through the very replicas in the opening part, which is a unique account register for the purpose of carrying out tasks for the purpose of preventing exactly these offences and the obligation to establish a centralised register of bank accounts prescribed by the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 2015. As regards the single account register itself as a centralised account register managed by our FINA, whose conduct is regulated by the regulations governing the implementation of the trust fund, access to the single account register for the purpose of the law itself on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is now the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. This Directive and tomorrow, which we are implementing, provides for the possibility of appointing one or more bodies that will have the power to access the information on bank accounts directly and immediately, and to search that information in order to carry out their tasks to prevent precisely such acts. Access and search are considered direct and instantaneous. If the national authorities managing the central bank account register send the information itself in haste, and this law prescribes the width of those bodies, i.e. the following competent authorities with the powers of direct access to information without compensation for bank accounts, which are the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, set up a unit responsible for the repression and detection of criminal offences of economic crime and corruption. Some of the colleagues have also mentioned in the opening explanation, especially through breaks and replicas, the very part that may be controversial, but here is the Secretary of State, which explained to us about GDPR and personal data, especially what the colleague highlighted in the constitutional category where our citizens are guaranteed both the security and the confidentiality of the data. I believe this law will not violate it, it extends normal jurisdiction to certain bodies. This also expands the number of officials and officials who will have access to these accounts. But as we know today, everything is digitized, so we need to require both the Ministry of Finance and the competent authorities, especially the IRS, the Customs and the State Attorney's Office, that any access to such information for the purpose of an investigation or suspicion of a certain serious crime must nevertheless be recorded and that it must be known who, when and why it enters certain information that we consider secret to our citizens. The data kept in the single account register that the competent authorities have directly access to do not contain data on the transactions themselves in the account, i.e. balances by account, and here we have in the part of the laws and jobs of the asset-absorbing body, an office which has been carrying out the duties of the economic crime service since 2015. This essential item shall also be prescribed to exchange information on bank accounts between EUROPOL and the financial and intelligence unit which does so all through the use of that system. And in the Republic of Croatia it is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. This law also prescribes the obligation of the FIN to keep records of what I have mentioned about any access to information contained in the single account register and the search of that data. And at the end of this debate, I have to mention two things, which is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for the purpose of carrying out the business in its work as a competent and established law ensuring the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. The obligation to keep records shall be prescribed. We think that it will be okay and that the agency will do its job and will stick to both secrecy and protection and GDPR itself. Another thing why we're even passing this kind of law, i.e. Why are we implementing this type of regulation? We are aware that since 1.1.2023 we are entering the euro area, that the European Commission just yesterday confirmed that the Republic of Croatia has met all the criteria for entering the euro area. We have passed in recent months, especially in the last half of the year a series of laws relating to the introduction of the euro, as well as the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, a series of regulations, regulations, a series of directives that we have discussed here. This is all about the act on the prevention of terrorist financing, etc. This is all in order to introduce the euro as the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia, which we have outlined and which most governments had in their programme. This government is strongly behind this strategic goal. We believe that we belong in the euro zone and precisely all the activities that we have seen from the Ministry of Finance in particular and the Ministry of Justice and Administration. I repeat, in particular, the amendments to certain regulations, Directives, regulations and laws. In particular, it should be commended to the Ministry of Finance for maintaining the stability of the financial system itself just to be prepared in 1.1.2023 not to feel either our citizens nor our economy any greater blow by introducing the euro as an official currency, but rather to take advantage of this opportunity which I believe can only bring good to our citizens, our economy and the Republic of Croatia, and hopefully also stabilise our financial market, reduce our interest rates. We all know that both citizens and the state are particularly attached to the euro as a currency in this export and import parts, so this is one of a series of laws that we have already passed. Let us look at it in this direction, because these are simple provisions and directives that we have committed ourselves with and which we have done as a task and by the European Commission are just about to introduce the euro itself. Lastly, I invite all of you on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113525	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Sačić in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113526	Honored chairman, respected state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. So here we see the whole world civilized, Europe too, and we in this Europe want and we have been looking for decades to say back, and one appropriate, appropriate model to fight crime, especially in recent decades, to fight the sophisticated most difficult form of organised crime, financial malversion, transactions, and especially those related to terrorism. And of course it would be the easiest in some authoritative regimes, dictatorial, non-democratic to make it clear, that, and that without any fences. Repressive legal system to empower, without any restrictions, as if the need and purpose of the state to combat all forms of such behaviour that does not correspond to the ruling elite, to open the door wide to any means i do not know both torture and any possible beating of elementary human rights and freedoms. However, the civilized world, as we exist in Croatia, must be tied between two tendencies, the trend of efficiency in criminal proceedings and the tendency to protect human rights and freedoms. The European Union has provided us with the European Parliament and the European Council, the European Commission has submitted us for implementation on this very trail of an appropriate, appropriate fight against crime of this Directive from 2019. We have now translated it into this law of a long name in principle that should enable it when we remove it from all of these, all of that rue when we break the essence of that law remains an open question that the banking secret for citizens is no longer sacred as it was until five, ten years ago. The bank secret of the CAP is protected, only the court, the competent authority of the court, can disclose it for the purposes of criminal proceedings by this law is in fact all of this deregating. So much time has advanced, so much social relations has changed, so much is the threat of countries from terrorism, from organised crime and every other form of fact that they have assessed political forces in the Euro Parliament that they need to give more power to repressive authorities so that they have faster, easier access to information, financial information, banking secrets, and even in the pre-examination, in the process of collecting criminal intelligence not in criminal proceedings. And now we have what we have. We have a proposal for a law to enable the Ministry of Finance, i.e. I'm experiencing it in a way but you'll understand that I considered the Ministry of Finance a withdrawal of the Tax Administration Customs. No other administrative apparatus within that, because these others don't have security certificates, they don't have security checks, they don't have professional and technical, material-technical opportunities to get into this system, so I'm experiencing it. In addition, there is the ministry as the competent authority of the Ministry of Interior but is targeted only by a department dealing with the repression of economic crime and corruption and that office that seeks property that stems from the crime and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Of course, it's you, of course, in those departments of the person authorized, that's understood. I don't think we should even think about these people being highly trained. It has to be, it's standard. I mean, if that's what we're going to underline, but that's standard. And now they collect, you put a few articles there, powers and competent state bodies. However, the issue remains open to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering in Article 8 is sufficient, otherwise it is quite a closed body. I'm sure he's doing an extremely important job in these financial investigations for the needs of USKOK, the DORH, as we said, must work closely with SOA as our intelligence agency. At least I hope so, and now you've confirmed that even for reasons of national security, it can refuse to provide any information, and then it implies that it must be related to bodies that are fundamentally concerned with the protection of national security. But in that office it clearly states that he can only assess if a state institution that is authorised to request data, that he says we can't give you that, we estimate that it's not in proportion to the interest of that natural or legal person for whom you're looking for data. It's so little stays in the air. The question for me and myself is also a particular problem that you put on these complex processes of identifying and collecting data from criminal intelligence, when everything is still in the fog, is still in the pause, when we have in front of us only a suspicion that a person might be either a terrorist financier or a perpetrator of serious crimes in relation to... the offences or taxation referred to in the Annex. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now here we're just going to create one background, the elemental data to come up with a chance to decide whether there are any elements to continue any criminal processing or some procedure formalized in USKOK, PNUSKOK. Now at that stage, we open the door wide to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and give them an insight into all the records that we owe, which are run by the Financial Agency. Who asked for this information for Peter Petrovic, why, with what suspicion, what for? These are data that are exclusively necessary to benefit public repressive authorities from customs, tax, MUP, that department organised etc. And we indirectly put all that on the table at the elected Personal Data Protection Agency. I agree that there is, that this is one model for protection against abuse, but then you should bring, put one item I don't know third or fourth that will tell the Personal Data Protection Agency will be provided to understand only certain data, not all of the data that speak about whether a person has been physically or legally subject to our interest or not without any further explanations. That would have been my purpose, everything else was wide open doors and hand binding that would compromise our entire procedure. What we're going to do, here, we have all possible secret and security checks, official secrets, we're all in discretion, we're keeping each other's files, we're hiding, and on the other hand we're giving it all to a certain agency that has no reason to protect all of this. There is no level of security protection of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a MUP, such as the DORH, there is no such strict and deductible access to the availability of such data. So I think we should move that, and you've also put it on, so it's of great interest. Here we can talk about statistics, but not specific objects. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data may also handle data statistics, but not on a specific person in detail. So that's where I think we should make a distinction, or the purpose of this whole story would be questioned because there's a possibility. We can believe that we're all angels, that we're all doing our jobs professionally, but the more information sources and the more archives it's a possibility to hack bigger, that's a possibility for anyone to know what and so abuse. Now, what is most important is the report submitted by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and by all the competent authorities for the enforcement of this law, you have committed yourself to delivering yourself to the Ministry of Justice itself, and the Ministry of Justice is now looking after the European Commission, not the Croatian Parliament. So who? So we are life-interested and we answer to the citizens and we are the ones who will question or, on the basis of reasoned debate, come into the role of protecting our citizens from abuse. Therefore, it needs to be changed. We in the Parliament need to get to the table of that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113527	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac in front of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113528	I would like to thank the chairman, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law provides for direct and immediate access to information on bank accounts from the single account register and their search, then to financial information containing information on financial assets, movement of funds or financial business relations available to the financial and intelligence unit for the purpose of preventing and detecting money laundering or terrorist financing, financial analyses resulting from operational and strategic analyses carried out by the financial intelligence unit. This Regulation shall enter The law on the implementation of the budget implementation is laid down that the Financial Agency manages a single account register as an electronic database containing all accounts and armed money, residential savings deposits and deposits, in credit unions, safes of all natural and legal persons with the rightful owners of legal persons, armed cash and safes as defined by a law governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, natural persons authorised to dispose of funds by account, armed funds, residential savings deposits and deposits in credit unions, and natural persons of safe users. The data providers in the single account register are banks, Croatian National Bank, residential savings banks and credit unions. The law implementing the budget implementation provides that public data in the single account register of a business entity are a personal identification number, a company or a name, or a name and address, a seat and address, a number of accounts and affluent funds, or a deposit in a credit union, the name of a bank holding an account, i.e. an armed funds, or a credit union in which a deposit is held, the date of opening and closing of accounts and of the cash in the bank, i.e. deposits in the credit union, the date of expiry of the tool contract. The data from the single account register relating to consumers are not public and are properly subject to the law governing the protection of personal data other than data on whether the consumer has open account data from the single account register and data on the accounts of specific purposes. Article 40 The Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia provides that security intelligence agencies are required upon request of citizens within 15 days by means of a written notice to inform him whether he is subject to classified data collection measures, and whether his personal data are recorded and, on his request, to give him an insight into the documents on collected data, with the exception of course, that the notification is not to be made if it would put the Agency’s task itself at risk, and then endangering the safety of another person, as this may lead to adverse consequences for national security or national interest of the Republic of Croatia. There is no such provision in the proposed Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences. In addition, Article 265 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The law on criminal proceedings provides that, on a reasoned request, a court may issue a decision on the provision of data if it is likely that a certain person in his bank accounts receives, holds or otherwise disposes of the proceeds of a criminal offence, and that income is important for the investigation of that criminal offence or under the law is subject to forced confiscation by means of a reasoned request by the court to order a bank to supply information to the State's attorney on those accounts and data, and it is determined that, if the State's attorney gives up on criminal prosecution or if the data collected are not necessary for criminal proceedings, the monitoring data will be destroyed under the supervision of the courts of the investigation which draws up a special record. A follow-up decision shall be delivered to the person charged with the indictment or the decision to give up the offence. There is no such provision in the proposed Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences. Article 13 The law on facilitating the use of financial and other information for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or persecuting serious crime has been established that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is authorised to respond to the requirements submitted by EUROPOL through the national Europol unit or direct contact with EUROPOL. Article 11 The law on facilitating the use of financial and other information in order to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences is laid down that financial information or financial analysis obtained by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering may be exchanged in another EU Member State. This Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious crimes does not provide an explanation of how it is handled with data committed to EUROPOL when they are being destroyed and who is reporting to the potential suspect that he was subject to supervision. The financial analysis is the result of operational and strategic analyses carried out by the financial and intelligence unit, i.e. the central authority for the adoption and analysis of suspected transactions and other information suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing. It's the Bureau of Money Laundering Prevention. This Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences does not provide an explanation of how it is handled. financial analyses not carried out on the basis of a court decision. This law on facilitating the use of financial and other information in order to prevent the detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences does not explain how it is handled. financial analyses and financial data if one of the EU members steps out of EU membership for what we had with Brexit. In the draft law, there is no analysis of the existing treatment under Decision 2007/845 of 6 December 2007 on cooperation between the Office for the Abuse of Property Benefit of Member States in the area of monitoring and determining the property benefit of criminal offences or other property associated with the criminal offence. The law does not even mention possible checks of the legality of companies that do not have a single employee, and annually they earn serious sums of money such as that hired by the compromised former Minister Žalac for the purposes of implementing software in the ministry worth as much as 17 million kuna. It's funny how none of our domestic institutions have raised any suspicions. It seems to me that this proposal is incomplete, but it also goes to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The only question is whether it's intentional or accidental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113529	You, too. Mr. Michel Jaksic will represent the SDP's views in this law, in this, in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113530	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, above all a good day and a lovely greeting to all. What I want to say in the first place on behalf of the SDP Club is that it is absolutely clear that by joining the EU we have assumed certain obligations, but also rights, and that we have just now a lot of these legislative changes that we have to work to comply with all that we are looking for in the community, but also what we are being realistic imposes on us daily life and everything that happens with crime today in Croatia and today in our environment. We have to admit that crime itself has become more sophisticated, that mainly through globalisation and digitisation, there are criminal acts likely to be committed by fellow Sacic before 30. he never thought it would be possible and that there would be a strong impact on the property of our fellow citizens and citizens, but also on the impact many times on our economic system and on the people who operate in the Republic of Croatia. From that point of view, any such cooperation, any such addition of our legislation, is absolutely commendable. We must also recognise that we owe it to the EU that a lot is being cleared up and cleared up in Croatian frameworks, we also have relatively fresh examples of Gabriela Žalac and some other cases where the European public prosecutor actually took Croatian cases, took care of them and, unfortunately, cast doubt between us and the citizens of this country, as it is possible, why this is happening and how we have brought ourselves into the situation that European prosecutors and European investigators are investigating and making decisions on something that may have long been and should have been done and completed within the borders of the Republic and within our institutions. In that part of the debate, it is very easy to get back to the point that we have a problem of trust in Croatian institutions and therefore simply perception of citizens when we talk about the whole justice system is what it is. But what we leave behind certain questionnaires and we would like to get answers and hear them through this debate and through some of the next days before the final decisions on how we will vote is that we have a problem thinking that apart from copying something that Europe has brought us, we have not drawn a clear line and we have seen where we are like Croatia today and what else we have to change in our system. We know that we will connect, but we don't know whether our system is ready to do so today, we don't know how it will work and what our inner capacities are at all to protect and some of our interests, but also that this whole set of changes has a final meaning because what we've seen so far, and that's why I mentioned the Office of the European Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice case, shows that many times with us the system is scribbled, it doesn't work all the way to the end, and then someone from Europe who brings justice to the Republic comes along, it's not something that should satisfy us. And so, before or without the support of this law, we would like to know how much our tax administration and FINA are prepared today, which is all open as far as GDPR and all those questionnaires that are still being asked in these discussions, and what this brings to Croatia at the end of the day except for the dry implementation of something that Europe is asking us to do, because we have to admit that what has happened so far in Croatia, so what has happened many times in clearing up some of the criminal operations of international character has proved that in Croatia has not been put to an end in the system, that our system has not been able to meet these challenges, and therefore we would like to have a clear analysis, clear do-over and a clear picture of what is going to change for the better and as part of our resolution institutions that should be much more important than compliance with the European directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113531	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic will represent the positions of HSS and RF, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113532	Good afternoon, everyone. Here it has been expressed a number of concerns about the data of natural persons on the side of HDZ, it clearly points out that the country was created at the time when the Law on the Origin of Assets was abolished in the 1990s, it is not an error of HDZ, we must be open there, but the state is created in robbery, robbery of conversion and privatisation, until it is resolved we will not be able to move on. What is the principle of privatisation in the '90s is a clear transition of social, state property, social property into the hands of 1% of the richest and until we settle it, until we put an ad act we won't do much, and why I also said in explaining the pause that Minister Paladin needs to be studied, but I'm afraid some in some colleges are probably private and teaching or teaching how to acquire property in a fast and easy way. Why? Because this is a paradigmal example of the acquisition of property, but unfortunately mostly in a legal way, so let's remind ourselves that Paladin is a classic meaning richer of Croatian who came to this property exclusively by taking workers, let's remind ourselves of the case where it is at the end of 2014. As the savior of the low-building hydropower plant came the Russian tycoon Sergei Gljadelkin Russian billionaire meaning Paladin, our Paladin assisted and took over shares of the company. Gljadelkin becomes the new owner, promises to reduce the accumulated debts, cut salaries under conditions for workers to give up their claims. Workers give up their claims means their salaries they haven't received in years. After Gljadelkin exits the hydroelectric power plant, he extracts valuable assets, equipment, vehicles, machines. Why he pulls out not only to earn it but to actually make it impossible for the workers to come to their claims. Declares bankruptcy, workers have no right to their claims and their severances. So that's a classic example. So he had privatisation, and then we have new tycoons of the Paladin type that I think repeats the same pattern where until privatization the company still manages the market. Then the company is in trouble, then some savior comes along, and then magically disappears both these companies and workers and claims and severances and everything else. In order to prevent really laws that facilitate the use of financial ones, as other information is said here in order to prevent the detection of research or persecution of serious crimes may be of benefit, but we can see here ourselves that we have a situation where we are not in a hurry to give that information. To constantly follow and warn and place fences around this private right of privacy, or to apologize more to rich people who may be in accounts and to see how much they have, this wealth of theirs than it really is for them to clearly determine the mechanisms on which disproportionate or certain crime will be determined. Now, that's why I've referred Minister Maric one question means asking for information that might be useful in determining the concentration of savings. Namely, the concentration of savings was determined by us and published unfortunately only 8 years ago. So the latest data or we have really not been recent since 8 years ago, in 2014, the CNB published these data on the concentration of savings, or on the number of depositors, savings that have a certain number on the account. And so that range would go from 10 to 100 thousand kuna, from 100 to 500, etc., means by deficits. I've been looking for that information for now. So I didn't get an answer or I got an answer from the finance ministry negatively, so I can't give me that information. Although, of course, they do. When the data on the HNB saving concentration was published, then we got shocking information actually did. That's when the CNB data found that only 1.7% of the savings are so well said we'll beat them so we'll call them savings holding 43% of the total savings. 43% holds 1.7 savings. So 115 of the biggest savings each in the account has over, then it has over 25 million kunas, 115 of them total 7.1 billion kuna. On the other hand, we have 86.5 depositors, or 2.6 million, who had a total of 26 billion kunas, each on average of 10,000 kuna. And then you get headlines in the new average Croat has saved 50,000 kunas. Do some eat cabbage, some meat, and we all eat charms, don't we? So we need to do an analysis of the concentration of savings which, unfortunately, we haven't succeeded, and we can assume that since then, and that we have data that the savings on the accounts has actually been increased in the crown. We can assume that this gap is even bigger and that Croatia is among the countries that have one of the greatest inequalities. So property, income, etc. So we're really a country where inequality only deepens, and that kind of information and data would be useful for us to find out who's rich, who's as rich as they are and how they get rich. Now that we have come to this famous Law on the Research of Origin of Assets, there have been proposals that have been made in the direction that, if it means returning that law, the law is, by the way, even returned to Serbia. So even Serbia has returned the Law on the Research of Origin of Assets, we have had such demands from different parties, but those requirements that went towards taxing property that, for which the owner cannot determine the origin, is de facto legalization, yes. It's legalization, so if you can't prove the origin of the property then pay the tax. We feel that this is not correct unless that tax is 99% I don't know all of that property, so it's not possible, and that way justice introduces into that society if we think it's okay to just pay a tax on something that can't prove that the origin of the property. But I'm saying a great deal of it was obtained by legal robbery of conversion and privatisation. It's a robbery. This is the transition of society into the hands of the private one percent of the population that has become rich, and Paladino is a classic example for you means not a single real estate, not one of his wealth has acquired as well as his own work. But he gained by walking around Croatia and collecting real estate and collecting like that monopolies, I guess playing monopolies in childhood, collecting real estate, collecting companies, firing workers and getting rich. And then we hear it's one successful entrepreneur, but that's a classic example, unfortunately, in most cases, I can't say, so we need data, it would be good to have that data, but we can't determine it's something illegal, right? So after the first, first robberies, conversions and privatisations follow others to the same, to the same form, and it would be very good if we got a real law on the investigation of the origin of the property that would end it. I'm afraid that while HDZ is, that won't be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113533	Thank you. We move to individual debates, the first gentleman called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113534	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, when I saw this law, then I hoped that by transposing this European directive we would take into account some of our differences and some of our problems into law. The main problem of the Republic of Croatia is mistrust in institutions. It's something that citizens show every day for whatever they're asked about. And then when you read this law, you realize that on one side of the state, you get the right to protect yourself, even if you're investigating someone who doesn't have any idea about it, to question someone's property, and he doesn't have any ideas about it, and you have complete mistrust in institutions. What I've asked in my question, and I think that's the key part that's missing from this law is that a person whose data are being verified within a reasonable period of time if someone is being checked from a criminal title should be given a sufficient period for the institutions of the state to determine whether there is a crime or not, but afterwards that person has to be informed that someone was watching his data. It was said here if a man asks, then he'll get information whether someone was digging through his data or not. Dear colleagues, if someone is, how can a citizen have the idea that someone is unauthorized to dig up his data? That's the key question. That's why one of us would even think of someone watching our data and using it the way we shouldn't use it. If he's using them to protect the state, which ultimately means protecting all of us to prevent crime, to prevent crime, that state from paying a tax that someone didn't pay, to establish order somewhere, then she's got a lot of right to use it because otherwise there's no point in the existence of a state. So on the one hand, I'd really like to support this, and that's why I hope that until the other reading things that are shown here will be problematic. Here is the reference to the annex one, Appendix 2, where virtually all the crimes below can be counted, can literally all of it. Now, I agree that the state has the right to control what any of us are doing, but it has the right to control it fairly. That information must be used fairly. And we are witnessing that our ministers are falling, and everyone falls under this annex one, attachment two, gentlemen, the key question is trust in the institutions. One of our colleagues was saying we don't have a system. If we do not have a prepared system that can access these data, practically half of the state institutions are listed here to access these data, and that persons who should access these data do not have to sign any statement that they will use them and why they are accessing them. I would like that in some way when you come to another reading of this thing to solve because I say this law is really good because it should prevent those in our society who do things that shouldn't do them anymore. And the moment the state is arranged, we should all be better off. We are witnessing that Germany has fined, or has now completed, the process of one of its greatest tennis players. Such a thing cannot happen in the Republic of Croatia, and it has shown that the German state, that the system there works and that every citizen there knows that if he did something he shouldn't have been punished. So I'm saying hopefully, it's lucky that this is the first reading that until the second reading of this thing you're going to fix And the law will be passed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113535	Mr. Lalovac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I absolutely agree with your debate. I think you hit the topic completely because it's not a problem here when the state controls citizens is the problem is who controls the state because let's not forget that recently there have been a number of investigations that led and that the data that have been published in the paper is true. Cell phone records, correspondence, etc. Yeah. Are we going to see some accounts of Croatian citizens going to be in the paper tomorrow? So you've got a pretty good guess. Who controls, what are control mechanisms? There is no question here that the state must have insight, we agree, but what control mechanisms are that this information will not be misused later on, that Croatian citizens are sure that this part will not be leaked, that they should be used to investigate whether or not they are used later in public or in some functions of discrediting Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113537	Thank you very much. Before answering Mr. Brumnic, allow us to welcome students and students with teachers of Zlatar High School with a nice round of applause. Here you go, Mr. Brumnic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113538	Thank you. I thank my colleague that you have recognized in my debate what is the essence of the problem in this law, and on the other hand very simply as I have said we have no confidence in the institutions, say the fish is being cleaned from the head. I have to admit, I was extremely surprised when I became an agent in this assembly when I was filling out my property card why this property card didn't fill out the tax card, the IRS had all the information about me, us, everyone, she delivered it and asked if what we're keeping track of you were what you really have, probably 99% of us would sign it and say that's what we have. If someone in that property card was found to have something else, then he'd write a note, but you didn't see that I had two more apartments, so you'd probably have to prove how he got them. So this country knows everything about us, the only question is how they're going to use that data and who's going to control whoever has that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113539	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113540	Thank you. Coliar Brumnic, you said that someone is digging through our information, and in this replica we got this fence in relation to the state because we are skeptical of the reason for this country, I understand it completely, but what should be feared by the one who has an account in the bank, which is exactly what needs to be hidden, what I suggest should not interfere with civil rights, means human rights and freedom with proof of origin of property, which is also evidence of the property card of the representatives because the representatives attach their property card to, in fact, to show in a transparent manner how they acquired property during the duration of their term of office, the beginning and the end must be somehow related, and not that the representative and the representative of the rich until the end of that term, which would suggest some irregularities, which they should be afraid of, is not the word here of the data from the mobile, is what was said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113541	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113542	I fully agree with you, I think transparency of data is the key to preventing corruption. I said in my debate, it's not clear to me that we filled the tax card ourselves, the tax administration knows everything we have, we should have been delivered and we should have signed or posted if there's something that this state doesn't know we have. So if that were the way it was going, that's how all the other citizens would look at things. I'm just wondering what my colleague Lalovec said, if anyone who has access to such data is right to deliver it on blogs, etc. And then that your account appears somewhere in the paper, I don't think it's right, and I think that's why citizens don't have a state, that they have a state to protect them, and let's just say it directs them in the right direction, which means they work for the good of the state, they pay taxes, and then they enjoy what they've earned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113543	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113544	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate you have touched on the subject of the institution's trust, I think there may be a key element of this whole debate that we have under this law. I can agree with my colleague, Lalovec, we've had a lot of cases and a lot of cases where leaks information, no one's ever been responsible for it. You also mentioned the problem of whether the system is ready for something like this, by introducing the OIB, here we are now shutting down, excluding the need for JMB and digitising the administration and the financial system itself, I think the system is prepared, but there is no sanction for those who read certain information that comes out into public space afterwards, and no one is responsible for them. We have this constitutional category and privacy and secrecy, but we're talking a little bit about a large number of officials and barat officials with sensitive information coming out every day, and no one's ever answered for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113545	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113546	Well, I kind of don't think it's a matter of sanctions, 'cause if one were to ask an honest person to do that job, it wouldn't even occur to her to use that information where he shouldn't use it. When I read this law, then I told my colleague if you would let me conduct it in Germany, I love Germany because it's arranged, the German police would immediately sign this because I believe that their tax inspector or their police officer won't abuse that information and that's, that's the key to this law, so the key problem of this law is the question of how we've asked our institutions, we're not going to solve it with penalties, so we're going to put it in those places and we're going to check the people who are going to read this information and that's what I think the ministry should do until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113547	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much, and now it's Mr. Ante Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113548	I thank the esteemed Vice President once again, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have now opened a series of topics, perhaps we have also moved a little bit away from the main topic, which I believe is also the aim of this draft bill, which is ultimately the introduction of the euro and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the euro area 1.1.2023. I also agree with my colleagues, colleagues before the discussion and the protection of the data itself, especially regarding the confidentiality and bank documents, and accounts, safes, etc. which can be kind of abused here, but I don't agree that there's anything better in Germany or that Croatian officials are bad or maybe they're not, that they're not as fair as the Germans, it's only that when such an ID or when such an account comes out to the extent of being convicted by the public. I think that, the biggest problem when we see cases in particular in criminal, criminal matters in courts and when we see the persecution of certain natural persons, and when we see data where something is being released selectively, it doesn't let go when a court or a lawyer or lawyers themselves defend themselves by having access to such data in the files has had a large number of people, a large number of practitioners, a large number of state lawyers, a large number of people in the court themselves, and then we can't figure out who's been talking and who's bringing that data to the media. We see that when these data come out who can be uncomfortable and that person can for, in a few years depending on the speed of the judiciary be released, but the permanent damage has been done to her and she returns time and her data can not return, and the public and we here here often do not condemn such an act in the Croatian Parliament. I don't know when someone came up from us and called it either some media or a court or some lawyer who put out some public information, that he had placed it, that he had placed it to the media and that we had publicly condemned it. Perhaps in Germany this difference is not the difference between honesty or dishonesty or dishonesty, but it is the difference in the condemnation of the public that if it may not be, it will not be sanctioned infraction or criminality by the person who presented a particular information or placed it or to harm a public person or perhaps to gain some benefit from at least getting a conviction from the public or at least a conviction in a public space such as the Croatian Parliament. I think there's a series of good deeds in this bill related to prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of serious crimes. I have noted the important factor in international data exchange between the authorities responsible for this because the crimes of financial nature do not know the border particularly today in digital times and in times of Internet business it is difficult to determine both the origin and the beginning of a criminal offence because it binds through a series, through a series of states themselves. And I would just go back to the end, and there we talked a little bit about it, and that's exactly how this directive and this law that comes out of that directive actually convinces the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the euro zone. Yesterday, the European Commission confirmed that the Republic of Croatia met all criteria for joining the euro area in 1.1.2023. I also reiterated in the debate through the club that this is one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia, that we have good indicators regardless of all crises and Covid and now partly of the inflation we had. I think the Ministry of Finance is very good at maintaining the financial system. That we had an economic growth of 7% in the first quarter, which will be crucial for GDP growth itself, that all factors affecting GDP such as investment exports and personal consumption grew in the Republic of Croatia, that as far as the EU is concerned, we are in a 50 billion euros. Our economy is growing rapidly, which shows the last 4 quarters after the Covid crisis itself. We don't have any macroeconomic balances, our credit rating is good. When we compare it some 7-8 years ago, I think that responsible and quality management of state finances themselves and that the introduction of the euro, that citizens should not be afraid of the introduction of the euro, and that this will further improve the credit rating itself, but also the standard of citizens, especially in part and credit obligations, because we expect a normal and interest reduction. So I see this law not only as helping to prevent criminal acts but also favouring the introduction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113549	Thank you. Before I give, before Mr. Brumnic, Mr. Pavić has been giving me some signs all along that I don't understand, please don't do that. This one, if I sanctioned this one here all those who, in part, speak about the other subject, I mean no one, no one would, no one would have come to an end. Here you go, Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113550	Except for me, but good. Dear colleague, I don't know where you live when You managed with this pay phone to state the fact that our system and the German system are the same. [[Intruder: Split.]] Yesterday, the prime minister in Germany welcomed you four hundred Croatian, thousands of Croatian citizens who went to live in Germany because our economy is progressing, because they trust our institutions, because it's good in this country. Try to understand that mistrust in institutions generates most of our problems that arise afterwards. As far as data is concerned, it's not a problem when someone is using public data, you've said public data several times. The problem is when someone uses information that's not public trying to discredit you in some way. And that's what he came up with, so he was in a place that de facto that, I'm gonna go now. I'm gonna watch something I'm gonna sign, and after that, I'm not gonna be allowed to talk about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113551	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113552	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Brumnic, I live at your entrance to the town of Split, the neighborhood is called Pujanke, before that I live in the Straight Fields, you probably know if you were in Split so I don't live in any of this, in any heaven or golden palaces and I love myself and we need to compare this with Germany, but I don't see that Germany is any better than we are. But what I commended in your debate and agreeing with you, trust in the institutions is a key problem both in this law and the departure of our people, and a lot of it, but I think we're also one big factor that puts our trust in institutions with a review of everything and everything that is needed and that we don't need and we send a very ugly message to the public. As far as the responsibility itself is concerned, I agree with you, if a president of the administration or manager can, or mayor, sign fiscal responsibility and be responsible for his signature, then one official who handles secrecy and private information can sign something similar and answer for it. very simple. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113553	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113554	Dear colleague of the Flat Fields is fine. So here was the Law on the Origin of Assets, although it is not a subject. Would that law perhaps be more effective if, in the context of preventing all these illegal acts, which should actually be prevented by this law that we are currently discussing. If we could prove that someone has some money that's not legal, I think it would significantly disable exactly what they're trying to disable by this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113555	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113556	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. I think that, past the law, the Law on the Origin of Assets that we have implemented in our system, especially in the last year to two days, here is the last year alone calling together a series of laws and a series of directives that we have committed ourselves to by the EU and the European Council itself, the European Council that deals with the same subject of not saying how much a special law on the origin of property would change things I don't know, but today what colleagues have been saying before the introduction of the OIB itself, all our data related to bank accounts, but for our property, everything is in the same system, we have brought in a very rigorous and Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and increased deadlines for all of us officials, and we have increased the scope of the duties, so that I think that any one, any institution of any state attorneyship, tax administration, may not be able to come and find out the property of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113557	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, here you mentioned actually entering the euro and the link to this law, and nextly, my question is whether by introducing the euro, a number of citizens who have savings, what the CNB actually said, about 35 billion kunas they now keep in the house is, not to say in socks or mattresses, etc., must bring food to the banking sector and it must be reported if. This law controls what you have in your account, not what you have past the bill. Now it will certainly be challenging for the financial intelligence unit or the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, it will certainly not be an easy task to control all that money, but this certainly under these conditions of today's instability and we see and ways of funding will certainly come in handy for the country's stability, however, the question of people's capacity to check all these transactions which, which Croatian citizens need to put into banking... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113559	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113560	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Lalovac for this replica, and I think we are on a similar trail than the fellow who accused us of talking about the euro that this is not about this law, and I think it is very much about the euro area itself, but also about the normal money of credit, savings and everything that our citizens have in most of the currency of the euro itself. As far as capacity is concerned, I believe that you are very well aware of it because you were at the head of the Ministry of Finance, you have worked closely together and set up the tax administration itself, you know what capacities they have, and I think that this is exactly what we do about both the European Commission and the fact that we are spending significant resources and the digitisation itself, what we have done for the OIB and the exclusion of both the seals and the JMBG and everything else, I think that the system is being worked out and that it is already well worked out, that what it may have been before I don't know 10 taxpayers can do it now, so I believe that we will be well-capitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113561	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113562	Your Honor, here's what would be really interesting if we heard what kind of parallel you'd pull between prevention, detection, research and prosecution of serious crimes with our country's credit rating and what kind of... It was by the opposition MPs, so let's see what we get here, it would be the same subject, but far away, no, it's not this replica of mine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just that you mentioned that there's nothing to be done against those who reveal the data. It's hard to figure out who actually gave the data to the public, but what's the problem? It's not a problem for anyone who's discovered the data, it's also a problem for those who haven't handled it properly. So if the man who discovered it hadn't come into contact with that data, had he had to see them in some other way or look at them in another way, then it would have seemed different together and not to reveal secret data, especially data concerning natural persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113563	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113564	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Pavić for the replica, I repeat, I do not agree with you that this law that facilitates the use of financial and other information relating to the prevention of serious crimes, especially when we talk about finances that has no impact on credit rating and the introduction of the euro, is this a directive which, in a series of directives, we have both committed ourselves to the Commission and the European Council to meet the criteria for the introduction of the euro, so that this is all very closely linked. As far as the data itself is concerned, I call upon you, as I appeal to myself and to all my colleagues to read sensitive data whether we condemn anyone who has transmitted this information that was secret or someone who published it perhaps in the media, perhaps on social networks, irrelevantly, when we here as colleagues have a unique attitude and condemn it publicly and protect someone in this way, I think it will change then click across the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113565	Thank you. And Mrs. McNally. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113566	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, in your debate you have devoted a lot to the subject of actually reading certain data in public space, who delivers these data and in principle sanctions that will be able to handle in terms of public condemnation, to some other things. The word is a very sensitive subject, it is good that this topic has been set up on this law, which is in principle where we are introducing in our regulation a specific regulation that is related to the EU in a way that we adapt to these conditions. I'm, among other things, mentioning the euro, and it's good that you mentioned it, but this subject to the public, by reading the data, the data as they come to the public at all, the way it's going to be treated, I think it's looking for a special debate that's much, much wider than this law for a simple reason. what we are doing today is publicly available to us and always the question of where it came from and who was first. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113567	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113568	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, for this comment, we must return to the law, we must return to the Constitution. We do not need to run away from the protection and privacy and the protection of the security of our citizens, the protection of all the foundations that we have all agreed here together to protect them and to base the Republic of Croatia on. So as far as the very secrecy of data and media or social media is concerned, I agree and it's good that we're on the same track to start opening that topic. It's going to be a quick debate when a few laws come here that are related to the very comments on social networks, let alone sensitive, sensitive data that come out. I believe that and I hope that we will ultimately be on, all on the same track because it is expected of us before, before any regulation that we have a public agreement And let's make a public condemnation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113569	No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić, come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113570	Thank you very much, Chairman. Here's to the efforts so far to draw attention to the problems in the laws I will today, as I mentioned yesterday when, when the topic was about vocational education, problems which no one has unfortunately seen from the ruling ones, will vote and we will have a law that will not be functional and do not see the problem in this law. Unfortunately here we had a colleague from the ruling majority who said that the law is excellent and does not see any problems in that law. I'll only mention a few of the problems I see. What I saw at the outset is that there is no mention of anywhere in the law that persons accessing the system must have a personal certificate regardless of the fact that we have two state-owned institutions that issue these certificates. If you take a closer look at the law, since it will be a direct approach, it means that there will be a web application, if we want to ensure safe access, then the only right of authentication with certificates, qualified certificates issued by either FINA or AKD. In particular, this would be smarter if Finna was doing it, given that the system is in FINI. Another problem is that in Article 3, I have already asked the esteemed secretary, Article 3 of Article 15, where it says that the competent authority for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences will be the MUP, the establishment unit responsible for the repression and detection of criminal offences of economic crime and corruption, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the State Attorney's Office. I ask here that this Ministry of Finance be corrected to state which units of establishment, since already two establishment units of the Tax Administration and Customs Administration are listed to correct and this Ministry of Finance in order to specify which other establishment unit within the Ministry of Finance should be as a competent authority in order to implement this law. Furthermore, we have Article 7, I would also ask the secretary to consider this a little bit, given that in paragraph 2 under point 1 it states that the records to be written in the database should contain the classification mark of the case of the competent authority. However, nowhere, it is not mentioned that there should be a reference table of classification codes or manual numbers together with documents. If that reference table does not exist it means that here in, this data number 1 can be entered in anything. So I suggest adding a reference table here and that this is defined by the law that there must be a reference table that will be filled out by an authorised person with the greatest authorization rights. When it logs those data into that table afterwards, those data can be available for recording of who actually accesss that database. And there's one more point in Article 7 that's just as controversial. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please, we're building a system. What does that mean? This means that we're going to create a system that we're going to assume and try to make there's a minimal intrusion or the possibility of incursion of unauthorized approaches. If we don't do it, we haven't created a system. Therefore, if we have a system, then someone cannot manually control what the system has written down, but these controls must be computer controls in a way that the computer controls what exists in the logs of those who have accessed the database, in the database, in the operating system database and in the application itself. If this matches in units, say milliseconds, that means that these data are relevant because they need to be treated properly, and I'm going to say a few more things in the final one that I think should change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113571	And now you're going to have a chance, you have 3 replicas, 4. Mr. Bacic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113572	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, no one has said that this law is perfect, it is not perfect, nor is this directive perfect, but we have to agree and I think we can agree that this is a good direction and that some things will change, that some things will be established, that certain controls will be established and that it will facilitate action to prevent certain crimes. This Directive has been amended, there will be a change in who knows how many times, how many times the market will be modernised, how many shortcomings are seen, new criminal offences that need to be classified, etc. etc. I'll just repeat what the Secretary of State said in the introduction. You said there was no law on it, and that's what I think all the employees of these institutions will have to have a security check with the certificate. Now is that prescribed by law, so until the second reading we put it on, or is it going to be through some rule on how to act in service I don't know, but I don't think it's a large number of employees, that it's going to end up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113573	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113574	I don't think it's questionable whether the law is going in the right direction, whether it's a good directive. It's about whether or not we're actually going to try to stop all the data malversions, if we're going to try to start to prevent the publication of data that shouldn't be published or we're going to leave it to the case. So if we're going to build a system in a way that we're going to reduce that possibility to a minimum we're going to have a lot less... in the system and we will have much less publication of public data, i.e., pardon private data of natural persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we won't have any of the problems that are happening to us right now. That's what we talked about earlier, so we have to deal with it properly. These are the data, the personal data of our fellow natural persons we should treat according to GDPR. If we don't act, if we leave the case, we have a problem. After that, when the data is already published, it's already too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113575	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113576	Dear colleague, I have already said that to a respected proponent that today the problem is that most of the money has been washed or is still being laundered, so that all these money transfers today, when some illegal activity is being financed, are actually financed in an almost legal way. Do we have any way of keeping all these entrepreneurs today and once mobsters and criminals under control today?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113577	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113578	So unfortunately with that clause in the law that after five years it must be forgotten what was before about the property and how it came about. Unfortunately, we're going to have a hard time finding out. So whoever had some extraordinary income uncontrollable without paying a tax five years ago gets it erased, it's forgotten, it's not the subject of an investigation anymore under the law that was passed here in this House recently. And there's the problem. So we're going after Mr. Rojska's old man, "who's bailing, pitting," and let's move on. That way we'll never get to the green branch. The only way to really explore the shops is to try to get to the root of the problem, we know where the beginning was so that in that way we actually get to those surpluses of money and the unpaid taxes to raise the state to one normal level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113579	And a tulip.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You emphasized a good fact, which is very important. These data now in data exchanges where, in fact, state services will now also have greater insight into financial system control transactions. Recently we had, we were amazed when some high school kid broke into the Vipnet system, it seems to me, A1 where he stole the data. Imagine what it's going to be like now, all the ones we have often and today we're reading about Russian hacker attacks, these, those, etc. And now we allow state institutions this is a very good question how well their information systems are put together. Here all the time I'm talking about building a system, controlling, building and using others even those on the outside of hackers who know that the state now has this additional insight into how to protect against external attacks. I think it's safe to have another reading answered those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113581	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113582	Thank you for the opportunity to answer that question, that is, to keep talking about it a little longer. It is that there is a service that allows all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia to access the data in that register. So the unique account register allows you to log into FINA, to get your user name and pasword. Note, user name and pasword, not to access with a qualified certificate. So you write something down and then it lets you into the system because someone there let it through your data. And you can look at publicly available data. So we're talking business data, local self-government units, public enterprises and everything else. But now, if such communication continues and personal data will have a problem because it is, it should be a encrypted connection. Today, however, these relationships can be intercepted and can then affect such systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113583	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113584	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I'm going to give you a chance to answer what my colleague Lalovec has set up, and it's actually something that puts my questionnaires above my head and something that I think should be realistic in real terms. So the system and the way it works. We, before I came here to sign, I looked at one document and I had to sign that it was a very top secret document so quantified and everything else and that everything I read there I couldn't communicate with. All right. But what I've read has been printed somewhere, so it's just that it's been printed somewhere, and the rest of it I'm sure that what's listed in that data can certainly come a lot more people than it will sign us very secretly. So we had, and all the time we're actually meeting that there are elaborate hackers that can get all the data, so the question is how ready we are, our system is willing to answer it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113585	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113586	Thank you very much. Here's what I can guarantee you is that all the information systems in FINA are secure, and if you heard about the attacks that were on the banking systems a few years ago, all the systems were attacked in the Republic of Croatia, and the FINA system was attacked, but the FINA system was not breached. Banking systems have been breached by commercial banks. Therefore, the protection that FINA has is an excellent protection, has excellent experts at the end of the day FINA is one of the few institutions in Croatia that has its CERT means has its Computer Emergency Response Team, one of the few institutions. So it's kind of harder that something might happen in Finni that's a little less, that's unlikely. However, what you said just before will now be more institutions accessing this system, there will be data exchange, these data will travel, will come somewhere, after which these data will be available on some other computers to other persons. Therefore, there is a need to keep an eye on how to deal with that data. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113587	Thank you very much, thank you very much. The real question is who controls the controller? Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, here's your last individual debate. There's no flies today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113588	What don't we have?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113589	We don't have flies today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113590	No, it's warm today, it's warm and air-conditioned, even today it's air-conditioning, and I have to commend the service that this decently cooled the assembly room and drove out the flies to tell me. So today we are discussing a proposal for a law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute serious crimes. The complicated name of the law, however, was not quite a mess. Most people actually agree that this law is not bad. I'd say here's a clean thing that I've already actually asked in an individual debate and later pointed out, repeated, and a little bit of course extended. It's always everyone, we all like to be actually when it comes to some private matters secretive, so when it comes to finance, there's a lot of things that are often secretive. What's your salary, most of you will cut it, how much you paid for this, you'll often get that money twisted, that value, so when, of course, all those who work legally and honestly, when they hide their finances and what they have, you can think that they're just doing those who aren't on the bright side, but on the side of the darkness to say so. And there is now this problem that today, at a time of modern technology, money transfers can be very or very easy. Literally from any end of the world to anyone, anytime with a mouse click on a computer can send some money. No matter how many years we have had control of all accounts, this law makes it easier for the services that are competent to enter, close, control these accounts or potentially prevent any illegal activities, some criminal acts, and here terrorism is said to be mentioned, and therefore it should be welcomed. But I still have to say here no matter what I say to welcome this bill, somehow too much control isn't something I'm generally thrilled with. It's a good thing we have cameras all over the cities for traffic safety, but only then may be the next step of that fries recognition that we have in China, is that this account control only here some potentially suspicious persons tomorrow can lead to control absolutely everything, which is something that is somehow here a little bit of a fear of it because always that over-control can be misused. And finally what I've pointed out already, but here I am going to do it again. Today, unfortunately, former mobsters, criminals, people who illegally acquired some property in the war today are entrepreneurs. So, while someone was at war, fighting, this one was gaining, something privatizing or something in a jam he gained and today he's a respected citizen. He's got some property he's got perfectly legal today. So this law will be difficult to prevent what we want because today's entrepreneur, the former criminal, is still a criminal. And that's what matters now. And in that context, there was a law on the origin of the property, someone said five years, so whoever's bailing, he's moaning, it's been a long time. But I'd be a little braver here, I'd still see if there was some kind of legal possibility that we could bury a little deeper beneath the surface and see who was stealing it, who was robbing it, who was it while someone was at war, and today it's at someone else's expense, to the harm of our country. Here, that might be on my side so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113591	Thank you, stay a little longer. Mr. Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113592	Your Honor, here's because you've just replicated the issue of how to determine money problems, let me just give you one more... I don't know if you knew, but in the casinos all those accounts you open behave like current accounts, here's only for information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And with that money that people open in casinos after that, they can normally do whatever they want and whenever they want and how they want, and nobody controls it. If he's going to do it under his OIB or someone else's OIB, it's another pair of shoes. Often identity thefts happen, and then they open it with another OIB so it doesn't determine who did it and how he did it because of the thefts they're doing again in some kind of chain. But it's just another possibility of what's going on here without anyone doing anything. That's why it's important to control, which is why it's important to access the data properly so that it can be properly processed later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113593	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113594	My dear colleague, I wish this were, our secretary of state was taken, so he didn't hear it, it occurred to me earlier. That's why I heard. I'm not really into the casino, but I heard about the bookies. Okay, it's all the same. I heard actually I don't know exactly the details you are, mostly at one point it was, I was in a society where someone said exactly that information that you can actually make any money transfer through any bookies in Croatia today. That this one from England, in that bookies account, will pay you money that you can raise almost anonymously. Here, I'm glad you encouraged me to say that from the pay phone. It's something that should be accounted for, but here's hoping the secretary of state after he's finished reviewing here, will review this debate as well. I don't want to give an idea here that deals with crime, but here's a respected secretary of state, pay attention to the bookies and casinos where they happen today, here's a reasonable doubt of unauthorized transfers of money from all over the world to Croatia and from Croatia to the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113595	We've all seen movies... The money costs 50%, if you are, if it's a fair casino, if the casino has those who aren't fair, then it's even less. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113596	Thank you very much. In fact, this debate where we're discussing this law reminds me of another situation that the films that we're about to see are 5 or 10 years old. Watched about those who are trying to convert their illegally acquired money into legal, how much it costs, the way the models that become it are actually through this law are just as we discuss it. It's never a problem for those who have legally earned their money, they'll take care of it, they won't even have this control problem, the problem will always be those who are something, they're hiding something, something they're trying to do, and it's actually the idea of this law must be to put their foot in the door, not those who legally acquire it because for them, they'll respect all the provisions and they'll be very, very careful in all this together. And now it's always a question in such a fast flow of information as far as possible and where there will always be some new idea and these ideas are born and this moment when we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113597	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113598	Dear colleagues, here's a good point, we'll all agree that whoever's in the gray zone or on the dark side that we need him, find all the possible instruments to solve it, but due to too much control will unfortunately get hurt and those who do everything by law and that's, and that's the problem and what someone said 99% of the MPs would have no problem having anything to do now... More property cards of this, of which, it's 1%, less than 1% of the people who are on the dark side, but we're all actually dead, or we're gonna get killed just because of this big control. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How to make a distinction I honestly don't know, but here's me as a legislative body we have to bring some maybe ideal and optimal model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113599	Thank you, too. We are now going to final discussions, the first is HDZ and Mr Ivan Budalić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113600	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here is a draft draft law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute criminal offences. The most important issues covered by the bill are to facilitate access to financial and other information by the competent authorities, such as the state attorney's office, tax administration, customs administration, when performing prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of serious criminal offences, in order to facilitate the conduct of financial investigations, international data exchange with a view to increasing security and improving the pursuit of financial offences in Member States and across the EU. The competent authorities shall be subject to direct access to the information contained in the single account register held by the FINA, to the identification of the bank account owner, to the person authorised to make available the funds to the account, to the real owners of the account holders and to the holders of the safes. The data kept in the single account register to which the competent authorities, whose competent authorities will have direct access, do not contain data on traffic by account or account status. Furthermore, the exchange of information between competent authorities with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Tasks, for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or persecuting serious criminal offences shall be prescribed. The competent authorities shall be subject to the obligation to carry out statistical data with a view to monitoring the effectiveness of law enforcement and to supply the same statistical data to the European Commission once a year. The processing of personal data in the context of the implementation of this law shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons relating to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the law governing the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia. Less or more we are all aware of for many years that the cancer of every society's wounds is any form of crime or corruption, whether it's more or less arranged society. By bringing this law into our legislative system, we are taking a step towards an effective fight against these phenomena in society. The effectiveness itself expected by the application of this law makes it easier for the competent authorities to carry out financial investigations i.e. More quality work, which, of course, strengthens citizens' confidence in the entire state system, which is extremely important in further democratisation of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113601	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, Social Democrats Club final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113602	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Secretary, in the end, I will repeat the four proposals I have made, I hope you have written down or that someone will look at it. I think the proposals are good and they're constructive, that it should be in law, and by that time, here, just a little bit more commentary on this part of data processing. As I said in response to the replica of a colleague, believe me, data in institutions such as APIS, such as FINA, such as MUP, such as HZMO, HZZO, there are safe data because with these data bars for years, in the right way, there are teams of people who have been guarding it, watching it, lurking and it will be difficult to just happen some breakthrough and serious damage to that data. The problem, however, is that today these data, here, are still going to additional institutions with this law. In addition, here we have a system that we call a single register and in the law, meaning the Unique Account Register. If it is a register, then all information systems that need data from such a register should actually consult it. But what happens specifically, not only to this register but to the other registers? Due to the ease of data processing, these registers are prescribed, and then this registry has its own copy in another institution, which is not good, and also, dear secretary, I appeal, if it is possible for those institutions that use data from this register to actually consult this Registry, and not for the data of the entire registry to be copied elsewhere so that these institutions can consult it. There is no need because if we have more copies, there is a greater danger that someone will distribute these data and then abuse them afterwards. If we want to do this, it's very simple because it's the Ministry of Finance that uses data in a different way, it can be defined either through your internal organization or in some other way, that these data are no longer copied. Same case with the OIB and all other data used in multiple places. And then we wonder how something leaked and how something came public, and it shouldn't have come public, that we suddenly have a list of some accounts of private persons, or individuals where we shouldn't have it, that we came up with some information that we shouldn't have. A major role in the control of everything in terms of data, personal data, of course there is still AZOP and I hope it will be in line with what is stated in this Law as well. I agree with Mr. Sacic, there is a suspicion, a reasonable doubt that there is some data that perhaps shouldn't be available to AZOP, but given what it says inside, I think that point 3, maybe it's not so controversial since it doesn't say anything specific that would be related to, just for the accounts, but rather related to the procedure. Now, whether it is the Agency that should have the information on what kind of procedure was conducted against some natural person, or whether it tried to lead against some natural person and what investigations were conducted, this is indeed questionable. So I would once again, here, if it's not a problem, Mr. Secretary, count what I told you were problems, it's that instead of passwords and passwords, you use certificates, qualified certificates, to make a mandatory class reference base and manual numbers with documents belonging to that class and clock. the number and that it cannot, that no inquiry can be made for any information by the institutions, such as the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the other institutions which approach that Register without having any information in that reference base. After that, the fact that in, at the Ministry of Finance, you define what kind of organisational units they need and have to access that register and ask you to question whether it is necessary for some person in charge of the security system to control the records because that, that I consider that task as an IT employee, I would say, I can't do that because it's almost impossible to do that. So this should do machine control should be, it should be programmed, we need along with other systems that control access, meaning the operating system of the database and the application system, to make a unique control that will then give us information whether or not someone has accessed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113603	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113604	Thank you very much. Just a little more notes. In this... Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113605	Time. Time's up. ... Note timed out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the time of this Law has also expired, so that I conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. It is now up to you: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 167; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 167 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As you know, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate because it's a second reading. He's had a discussion, please. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Does the motionary's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Mr. Mile Horvatt want to take his word? Looks like he wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113608	I thank the vice president of HS. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species is in the second reading today. I will introduce a few reasons why this law is significant and then go through the elements of the law from these amendments to the law from the first reading. Since 2000, the Republic of Croatia has been party to the UN Convention on International Trade in Weapons, Threatened, I apologize, in international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants of the so-called CITES Convention with 83 other countries of the world including all EU Member States. The international agreement globally protects more than 35,000 plant and animal species that are at risk of international trade. The implementation of the CITES Convention shall ensure sustainable international trade in live specimens and parts and derivatives of plant and animal species. The annual value of international trade in wild species is estimated in billions of euros, and is largely related to pharmaceutical, food, cosmetic, fashion and wood industry, as well as to pet trade. Today there is no segment of life that has no contact with wildlife trafficking. Unfortunately, trade in wildlife is so profitable that, with legitimate trade, even more pressure on endangered species creates illegal trade. It is estimated that, by value, illegal trafficking in wild species is at the very top of the trade in drugs, weapons and humans. The wild species most endangered by illegal international trade are, of course, rhinos, elephants, tigers, parrots, and some species from our areas such as predator birds or land turtles. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development is responsible for implementing the CITES Convention in the Republic of Croatia. After the accession of the EU CITES Convention, it shall be implemented through Regulation 338 on the protection of wild fauna species and flora by regulating trade therein. Therefore, given that EU regulations have been directly applicable to the Republic of Croatia since the date of accession in 2013, the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species has been adopted which has created a framework for the implementation of these European regulations in our country. This law, therefore, from 2013 as a basic law, has prescribed the competent authorities and their tasks, the way in which applications and the procedure for granting authorisations and certificates to EU regulations, the treatment in cases of commercial use of individuals of our strictly protected species which are not covered by the EU list of regulations and infringements of regulations and laws, as well as the treatment of seized and withdrawn specimens of protected species. This law was amended only once in 2019 when the amendments were limited solely to changes due to the reshuffle of the state administration body, specifically by establishing a state, a single State inspectorate as a single administrative body and by abolishing the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and the establishment of the Environment, Environmental Protection and Nature Institute as a body of the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, in particular Council Regulations 338 and its respective Regulations are regularly amended and supplemented at least every three years as a consequence of amendments to the CITES Convention adopted at meetings of the Parties to the Convention. So, the changes to EU regulations that have taken place since 2013 and here have also required these amendments that we are proposing now through these amendments to the law. So by amending specifically the few most important amendments to this law. Amendments shall be made to the terms of the law, the periods for the reporting of the European Commission and the CITES Secretariat shall be harmonised. Detailed conditions of entry for specimens of the species listed in Annex A to this Regulation and the conditions for the registration of new breeds thereof shall be laid down, the entry in the register to be managed by the Ministry and the amendments to and corresponding infringement provisions shall be amended. The law prescribes conditions for commercial use of strictly protected species not covered by EU regulations. The definitions of terms of commercial use are changed, the type of reports and deadlines for reporting the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission, which are our obligation, are harmonised with the obligations to mark the specimens of the species listed in the Annexes of the CITES Convention. It is also introduced to register species listed in Annex A to Regulation 338, such as land turtles and African grey parrots. Regulation 338 also provides for the obligation to issue a certificate for the commercial use of copies of these species within the EU to demonstrate the legality of the origin of each specimen. Therefore, in order for the ministry to have in advance specific information and evidence of the cultivation of these species in the Republic of Croatia, a procedure for the registration of breeding operations of these species is introduced. As regards wild species which are strictly protected in the Republic of Croatia and not covered by EU regulations, the scope of the prescribed obligation to issue a certificate for the commercial use of copies of such species is reduced. Amendments to the law also provide for the obligation to issue certificates only for specimens taken from the nature of the Republic of Croatia or raised in the Republic of Croatia. For specimens obtained in other countries, the traceability of origin as the most important things will be ensured by the account and other documents on the purchase of copies. Amendments and additions shall be brought into line with the provisions on the handling of the Customs Service and the jurisdiction of the inspection, and provisions on the temporary withdrawal of copies of which are unlawfully handled. The content of the application shall be described, the appearance of the authorisation of administrative procedures. But the forms of demands and permits themselves are no longer an integral part of the law and are not published in the National Journal. The relevant infringement provisions are also prescribed and there is no need to provide for specific resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget for the implementation of this law. As regards the consultation with the interested public between the first and second readings, we received comments from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs which are of nomotechnical nature. We adopted those remarks. Likewise, the objections made by the Ministry of Justice and the Administration are also nomotechnical in nature, we have also accepted them and we have had objections from the State Inspectorate which proposed that provision be added in Article 29. that the party may, in favour of the Republic of Croatia, deny copies of certain types of their parts and derivatives. We did not accept this remark because this article refers to temporary treatment, and here in this case, otherwise, this act would constitute a final act which should be further sanctioned and therefore create conditions for these species to be further implemented, if they were to be cared for, at the expense of the State. And just for the last few examples, let's see how the whole thing works live. So, in June of '21. In the year, authorised police officers seized 152 living Indian star turtles at the A1 freeway. The turtles are located in a recovery site for wild animals until the process itself is completed. In an illegal market, a very young one has a value of 150 to 250 euros, and up to 900 euros is the value of such a single one. In 2017, the Ministry of Finance also temporarily seized 361 acoustic, electroacoustic electric and bass guitars, which are entirely and/or partially made of wood, which is protected by the CITIS Convention. The instruments are the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development paid them taxes and customs duties in 2001, in '21. In the year, public music schools included schools in the earthquake affected area, so a total of 55 schools received instruments to educate students of weaker assets from this seizure. Also, from other CITIS seized in the Republic of Croatia, it should be noted that during the tourist season there are fewer quantities of caviar among foreign tourists coming from Europe and also from Asia. Why are we pointing that out? Because the value of the highest quality cobweb is about 80,000 kuna per kilogram and is rightly referred to as black gold. A real caviar is derived from a sturgeon, a species of fish that is also protected by the CITIS Convention. Here, these are briefly, this is a brief review of this proposal for amendments and laws. Between the first and second readings, as I said, there were only a few, several remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113609	Thank you, we have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113610	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, the final draft of the law confirms compliance with the EU acquis. In the EU, this law on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora and the regulation of trade have seen several changes and is one of the last since 2021. This part that is controlled and defined by this legal framework is not disputed, but it seems to me that the great problem is that citizens who are in love with exotic species who are kept in houses, apartments of this kind can get out of control, and they get out of control, and they don't even know for themselves how and which roads there are both legally and they are dangerous, these species for man are snakes, some other species, tigers, wolves, wolves and lynxes, etc. It's possible for you to control it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113611	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113612	I would like to thank the honourable representative, so the general difference in the jurisdiction of the regulations is the following. This law, the amendments to this law, concerns the regulation of the commercial use of protected species on the market in the Republic of Croatia and the proof of their origin. And what you're saying is that the pet regime is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, the control of the veterinary inspection. The way he behaves, therefore the welfare of animals is regulated from the area of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113613	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113614	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, these final amendments to the laws are prescribed provisions for bodies and institutions that control cross-border traffic of protected species, customs and veterinary inspections and phytosanitary inspections. Do you think it will still end certain abuses of cross-border traffic and trade in wild species through the operation of those control bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113615	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113616	I thank the honourable MPs, so there is a whole mechanism of control, and if, if it is customs cross-border traffic of these species, then it is primarily customs jurisdiction, therefore veterinary inspectors, phytosanitary inspectors, if it is within the market, then, of course, the jurisdiction of environmental inspection. Otherwise, all I have to say is that there is information that in 2020, some 4,000 cases of protection of species have been reported in EU territory. One single out of 10 gets caught. And mostly countries are richer, higher standard of living polygons for this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113617	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113618	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State is one tourist season ahead of us, and we are witnessing that some of our visitors are taking out wigs and wigs for their promotions on social networks, as well as taking them to their homes. Periska is a strictly protected species in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to know what activities have been undertaken so far and what more should be done to inform our guests arriving on the Adriatic coast that the pinna nobilis is a protected species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113619	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113620	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. As you said, our Nature Protection Act and the associated accompanying rules are a peri-protected species and strict, strict sanctions are laid down for illicit use, or placing on the market, trade, harassment, extraction, or collection from their habitat, so the sanctions are strictly prescribed, in some parts we even have more severe sanctions than the EU has in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113621	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113622	Dear Secretary of State, here's one small piece of information regarding the Persian, pinna nobilis so-called. Latin. Unfortunately, they're gone, you know that the problem is that they've been completely killed, only one of the two in the aquariums are saved, so the Persians are almost gone. We hope that this will be restored even though we don't know. Specific question, today in Croatian restaurants you can eat fingertips, lithiceps lithiceps and... It's a joke that they're dumb fingers, protected... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they are dumb, as we have prevented it, this Law prevents it, and if they are not dumb, then what the Ministry is doing on the matter of finally stopping the fishing, the devastation of the Croatian coast, the fishing of fingers, and I am responsible for saying that it exists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So either-or. Here's a little bit, if you can be a little more specific, the numbers that were caught, for example. The poacher last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113623	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113624	I thank you, Your Honor. So, the fingers are banned species in consumption, we see that there is a practice that is almost illegally used in restaurants, inspections and authorities trying to end it, one part of course, most of these fingers come from BiH. So as soon as it comes from other countries' territories, countries outside the EU, control is at the border crossing, as I said, customs and competent inspectorates. I have no record of how many such cases were last year, but we were eyewitnesses, so we read in the media that according to Zagreb, certain inspection bodies found this, interveningly found in the Zagreb bars some to use them... So they're offered in menus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113625	Dear state-renowned representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113626	... Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] I'd like to get some answers regarding the provision of an article. 21, that's the one. 29 which is changed and said, therefore this is the relationship of the Ministry and the State Inspectorate. So it's the inspection that will determine something, it's the inspection that's going to do something, and it's the Ministry that has to take care of where it's going to be, so when it's going to catch some forbidden animals that are talking about imports, where they're going to be located, the way it's going to be defined. Now, there are certain resources to be provided for that, so I'm curious as to which items of the budget provide these funds, and I know that until then there was a problem, is that on the items of the Ministry or the State Inspectorate and how so far, how does that work? So when the inspection was in the department's jurisdiction Things were simpler, now [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm afraid they're more complicated. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113627	Dear Secretary of State, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113628	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, the Wildlife Recovery in the Republic of Croatia has been functioning since 2004, and in the meantime we have passed a regulation, the Ministry has passed a regulation on the work of the recovery facilities themselves where we have defined the jobs carried out by the recovery facility, a list of endangered rare species of animals that are priority for care, etc. and, of course, the funds in the budget for the functioning of those recovery facilities have been provided. According to the contest we called, 2021 in January of '21. 11 legal persons who have met the conditions laid down in this Regulation for the work of the recovery centre have reported themselves and they are currently functioning. So, 11 recovery facilities we have right now in the Republic of Croatia, cost of recuperating the salaries of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113629	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113630	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here, teach a little about this question, i.e. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 29 Exactly defined treatment with temporarily deprived live animals, accommodation in recovery facilities, is also said that after the legal end of the procedure, permanent withdrawals of the species listed become ownership of the Republic of Croatia after which the Ministry decides to continue dealing with them. Does that mean that, for example? The Ministry may also decide that these living specimens of protected species are returned to the country from which they came or something else could mean that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113631	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113632	I thank you, Your Honor. So each particular case is for itself in principle such protected species, if they are suitable to stay in institutions in the Republic of Croatia, such as museums, if they are plant species, if they are live animals, then they are zoos, they are institutes, etc. So it's a priority, but every case is for itself, I would now, I can't generalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113633	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113634	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Horvat, I am interested in mentioning a positive list of animals that can be held as pets in the last debate about the first reading. Some European countries like Belgium, the Netherlands, have already brought this, I think there is Luxembourg, and many European countries are considering adopting such a positive list. I wonder if in the meantime, since it was only a matter of more or less meaningful changes in this version, I wonder if you've considered it and if you can comment on me if you arrive, Italy last year banned both imports and trade in exotic wild animals, and now in the 5th month it takes effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113635	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113636	I thank you, Your Honor. So, keeping animals including exotic animals you were talking about is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the process of amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act that we were working on a year and a half ago, the commission therefore tried to establish a positive list of such protected species. However, problems have been objectively raised because such a list should have a professional and scientific background and continue to be drawn up. There has also been an opinion that the creation of such a list will provoke a black negative market of exactly such protected species, as has been shown in practice in EU countries. When a positive list is created then the demand for these, these protected species, and the negative black market is created that is being strengthened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113637	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113638	Thank you very much, President. The Secretary of State has also mentioned infringement provisions for those who use unauthorized live or dead specimens of wild animals and endangered plant and animal species. Namely, several months ago at the Slavonski Brod border crossing, one person was caught trying to translate across the border of a stuffed bear and was punished with a fine of 18,000 kuna. In parallel to that, the person who carried over the border 10 pâtés punished with 3,000 kuna, and for 2 bags of cabbage, the penalty is greater than 5,000 kuna, for 5 kilos of dry meat as much as 22,000 kuna, which I think is completely unfair and of course that in any case these examples and reduce the importance of this law and the importance that you really want better control and supervision on this issue. At the same time, I do not think that there are too little penalties for trade and wild species, but I believe that there are too many and too many penalties for these other cases. Do you agree that we can't even it out? Even with a higher amount to punish those who carry a piece of sand or a kilo of tomatoes as well as those who cross the border The stuffed bear? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113639	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113640	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So I think you've well assessed that there's a disproportionateity in punishing certain misdemeanours. It is possible that even this bear preparation misdemeanor should have been severely punished. Our law or criminal provisions in certain situations prescribe even stronger dragon penalties for legal persons involved in smuggling. That even comes somewhere over, as I recall now, over half a million kunas are fines. We have now tried in these amendments to make these fines and prevented criminal penalties by obligation to convert them into euro. So that was our first assignment now. I'm not saying that we're relatively heavy, we're partially affected by amounts, maybe we should go with sharper penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113641	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113642	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Horvath, I'd like to ask you for an explanation. Maybe I misunderstood something, so I'm asking you. On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The suggestion you received from the State Inspectorate, which you said was rejected because it would mean taking financial costs to the burden of the Croatian state to resolve these problems. Now you have also said that the law applies not only to species found in Croatia based on illegal cross-border trade but also to protected native wild species, so I am curious whether in this case, when it comes to protected native wildlife, it was still possible to accept these suggestions of the State Inspectorate because I suppose there is not much of them, that this cost is not great, and that it is not in our interest to take responsibility for these species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113643	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113644	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, the State Inspectorate has proposed an amendment to Article 29 where it has requested that the situation be foreseen so that the person who owns the protected, protected species should give up that specimen for the benefit of the State. So here is not the intensity of this law that we create space to give up in favour of the state and then the state opens up a problem for itself what to do with such... So, rather than the whole, the entire institute and the entire institute that starts with the inspection find, and then with, and with these recovery facilities, it's meant to be on a temporary basis until the process is completed, there's no responsible person, no sanctioning a responsible person, and then a state of that kind, directs such a property to some institutes that will continue to be a professional team. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can't state custody... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's why we turned them down. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113645	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113646	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this law, except for the regulation of the traffic of wild species on the one hand, is of great importance both animal and human health. So I'm interested in when, if you can explain to me, you said that we have registered 11 places in the area of the Republic of Croatia, these sites must have certain minimum technical conditions, whether or not the registration or registration of those sites included a veterinary authority or veterinary inspection to protect both animal health and people at the benefit of this zoo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113647	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113648	I thank you, Your Honor. So, as I was saying, the recovery sites were formed in 2004, and in the meantime, we've adopted rules of conduct for these recovery facilities, and then, based on that regulation, we've defined the mode of work and all the elements of the recovery facilities themselves, we've issued a public call to which 11 companies that have had the conditions under this Regulation have come forward. Of course, there is further communication and communication obligations with the veterinary inspection, which is then the tour of these recovery facilities controls the way these animals are treated in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113649	Thank you very much. You can return to your seat, dear Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will speak to the respected representative Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113650	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State Horvat with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is certainly good that Croatia is a full member of that CITES Convention and it is certainly good that, after EU membership, we were obliged to regulate the protection of our wild species by law. We are talking here about harmonising with EU legislation on the basis of new regulations that came into force after 2013 when the original law was written, and the proposed law regulates commercial use and cross-border traffic of live and dead specimens of wild species and strictly protected native species, and their parts or derivatives. So, simply put, this law obliges us to keep an eye on the wild flora and fauna of other countries as it obliges them to keep an eye on ours. The proposed changes are of a technical nature and it is certainly good that the laws are improved because, as I said, the original is from 2013 and it is well-defined shortcomings which, with time and application of the law, have become obvious now and the law is tempered with new knowledge and changes that have become evident since the law was first passed. I will also say that these changes will allow for better prevention, not just a stricter penalization of those who violate the legal provisions, thus jeopardizing our wild flora and fauna, and that I hope that it will discourage all those who make up souvenirs. At the world level, if there were not so much illegal exploitation of wild species, smuggling, illegal conservation of such species as pets on the world level, such laws would not be necessary. Unfortunately, however, such destructive and illegal activities are happening around the world, as well as in Croatia, and it represents such shops as we heard from the secretary of state are numbered in billions of euros. On the other hand, it is good for national legislation to follow international trends and to fight this monster systematically. It is certainly good that we have and promote these laws, and the Social Democrats Club will support this law in the vote, noting that it is important to ensure its consistent application and implementation. Since the State Inspectorate is entrusted with the control of these processes, we hope it will be more effective than in some other jobs for which they are in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113651	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ljubomir Kolara, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113652	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues before us is the Final Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cross-border Transport and Wildlife Trade. And here, as with a number of other legal acts, it is primarily about harmonising Croatian legal frameworks with those of the EU and harmonising a number of legal acts. This law also regulates the conduct of commercial use and the proof of legal origin of specimens of species which are strictly protected under the law governing the protection of nature and which are not listed in Proposal A of the EC Regulation. 338/97 taken from the nature of the Republic of Croatia or grown in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and parts thereof and derivatives thereof. The proposed e-amendment of the law shall ensure consistency of the application of the procedures prescribed by the EU legal framework on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species and shall avoid the occurrence of legal gaps in procedures and conditions of issuing import and export licences and certificates necessary for legal cross-border traffic, trade and use of specimens of wild species from the list of the Regulation. The terms of reference are also regulated, the reporting period of the European Commission and the Secretariat of the Convention is harmonised, and detailed conditions and the outcome of certificates for the specimens of the species listed in Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 338/97 are prescribed, as well as the conditions for the registration of their cultivation and registration in the register run by the competent ministry. The Convention on international trade and endangered species of wild animals and plants is an international agreement aimed at regulating and overseeing international trade in wild species and ensuring that it does not endanger the survival of these species in nature. It represents an international legal framework that regulates cross-border traffic and trade in wild animals. Unlawful international trade in wild fauna and flora is one of the most profitable criminal activities. According to global estimates, it passes between 8 billion and 20 billion euros annually through the hands of organised crime groups, which places the trade side by side with illicit drug trafficking, human beings and weapons. The European Commission and the EU are introducing a large number of species protected by the Convention, and it undertakes that this international trade does not endanger the survival of endangered species and that illegal trade is contained. Many other species traded in large quantities in the EU have not yet been protected in a satisfactory way despite major challenges in their preservation. Unfortunately, Croatia is no exception to the increasingly widespread illegal trade in wild species, the endemic features of Croatia are the collectors and collectors, who illegally take these species from nature and take them into their collections or resell them to other holders. In addition to endemic species in the Republic of Croatia, the most commonly trafficked and objects for, objects seized are strictly protected breeding species, primarily land turtles or chalices, bar turtles, different species of birds that are often targeted by various hunters, then birds of prey, most often cherries, shellfishes such as peri and toes, but also hunting trophies and furs of large beasts, wolves, lynx and bears, and predators' birds. In addition to strictly protected and traditional species, they are often subject to illegal trade and foreign animal species and are constructed from them. Unfortunately, as long as there are consumers who are willing to pay high amounts for a luxury copy, there will also be illegal trade. We believe that this Law, i.e. that these amendments and additions to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wildlife, is good, well, I will say, weapons to fight crime and so on, and in these proposed changes and changes and there are certain infringements. Also, this Law will in some way ensure the protection of wild species of the Republic of Croatia, but also contribute to the protection of wild species of BiH in such a way that stricter border control affects the prevention of illegal cross-border traffic of wild species from BiH towards Western European countries, of course, via Croatia. The HDZ will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113653	Thank you. We will now return to our point on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species and on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113654	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In our second reading, that is, the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species. It is about that set of laws that was passed in 2013 when Croatia joined the EU and when a set of laws was passed so that our legislation could be brought into line with EU legislation and there was a series of laws and that was one of them that was actually good, regulated, regulated in a certain way what we did not have in a quality or proper way before that. As the Secretary of State has already pointed out and said, and as explained in this proposal, the only amendment that was the law was to comply with some other things, and that is to remove the Agency or form the State Inspectorate where it is formally, I think there was one 58 laws where the amendments and additions were actually formally aligned with everything that happened in the meantime and now we have actually the first amendment where the re-compliance with the regulation was again, but also a number of other things that need to be resolved. We always have a feeling, so they have some laws that have more attention in parliament, some that experience some less attention in parliament, this is unfortunately one of those who experience less attention in parliament, but I wouldn't appreciate the laws by it, and I think this law is one of those that is equally important because things in time, in space in everyday life, don't happen to someone else. They are not happening to another EU member country and they are happening to us in Croatia today, they were happening yesterday, and I'm afraid things are going to happen tomorrow. Among other things, therefore, this trade of wild species at the level of the world or the level of Europe is not only happening in some of the films we see but it happens both in reality or sooner or later also happens with us. We've had opportunities, and it's always great public attention, that someone across the border had, I don't know, a suitcase full of snakes. Either someone tried to smuggle some dangerous species or someone at home as his pet held a little tiger as a matter of prestige. It's not somewhere else, and it won't happen anywhere else. This will happen and also happens in Croatia which is definitely, you know, the demand for something also offers. The moment there's demand, then there'll have to be an offer. Sooner or later, some newly-composed or new tycoons will need to, behold, for a pet, when someone comes home to their guests, a tiger walks around to show off important or otherwise. And that's why it's good to define certain things by law, so it's good to have certain situations in the law, but it's good to discuss all of those types that are protected in our country, which are the subject of either hunting or fishing, so they're already here in the remarks, or the replicas of the MPs, the wigs were mentioned, the fingers were mentioned, the individual animals that like to be stuffed so much, and keep them at home or somewhere and hold them for decoration or somewhere to trade with them, and these are facts. So, we have a tourist season here, we depend on tourism, the result of this tourism will certainly be a part of the peri-currant harvest again, that finger story, and that all those fingers that are consumed in our restaurant are happening and growing on that part of the sea that belongs to BiH, we all know that it is, that it is simply not true because it is physically impossible, but the situation is what it is. Some things in this law are defined well, we'll be like a club, it's one of those laws that won't cause any major recommendations and doesn't cause any major recommendations in the debate, but I also think that we need to discuss it, that we need to define this problem of commercial use and that we need to define the problem we have and that we need to prevent it properly. I would like to open another topic that I think is quite important, which is related to this Law, which is the subject I also mentioned in the replica of the Secretary of State, this relationship between the Ministry and the State Inspectorate. You know, to me, you know, every one of us has some favorite topics he likes to discuss, one of which I often like to highlight is the subject of the State Inspectorate. When it was, I was a parliamentary representative and at the moment when the State Inspectorate was re-founded because we know that we love some things this, and some things that kind of work out, and then we quickly give up on them and then we change our minds a little bit, and we come back together. So there was also the subject of the establishment of the State Inspectorate. That's when I said a sentence from this pay phone that I'm going to repeat right now, and that's to make sure that the mess we have doesn't get replaced by an even bigger mess because the establishment of the State Inspectorate kept hiding that it's good that the inspectors are in one place, that it's a good thing that they're tied to, so that's how it's defined everything else. I reminded myself then that we had already had a State Inspectorate where in one place there were inspectors who were related to food problems. With the problem at all, so first those who were market inspectors came, all else related to it. Now we have the State Inspectorate that we know of and not all state inspectors at the State Inspectorate, then those ministers who had such an influence and were a little more powerful have fought to keep some inspectors in their inspectors in their inspectorate, and I mean the minister of traffic where these inspectors are not in the State Inspectorate, and some are in the State Inspectorate. I also deliberately referred to the provision of an article showing this fine relationship between the inspector and the ministry. We, no one in the State Inspectorate, inspectors in certain jobs cannot be completely independent, they must rely on the ministry's work. I'm not saying that this way should be a reason and an excuse why they shouldn't go to the State Inspectorate, but I remind you, and I deliberately asked our Secretary of State, and we had one situation when an ex-employee against whom the process is now being conducted, one dozen years, when he was deprived of all mobile and immovable property. The immovable property at that time was also racial Arab horses because it had horses which were therefore expensive horses which and then the state, not only was there a ban on its entire property, there was also movable property that were horses. You know what the problem was? The problem was that there was nothing in the budget of the item from which these horses, so that would justify feeding, Timing and all that and actually those horses need someone.../incomprehensible/... have to run, so I don't understand enough about it, but I know what the problem was. So the problem was that someone should take care of these horses, feed them, they should be timarized, they must run for a certain time in the day and everything else because otherwise these top horses that cost and cost and were adequate will actually cause the public animal to die with nothing at all. And the basic problem was, there was no item. Now, it was no accident that I asked the secretary of state when it was actually about endangered animals, so even when they were exempt and when they had to be somewhere, who, from whom, who had that item where they would finance it all together. The secretary of state told me very wisely, said the budget of the Republic of Croatia, nothing was wrong, but I was particularly interested in whether the ministry was taking care of it then, which would be logical because the ministry is the one that determines the location and everything else or the State Inspectorate. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking because somehow we're experiencing laws as a form, so we're looking at what the provision is, is everything okay? I like to watch the laws in terms of their implementation, see if these laws are implemented and if we have any problems when we start implementing such laws, this is one of those laws that we'll support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113655	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative of Mirela Ahmetovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113656	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal regulates the control of commercial use and cross-border traffic of live and dead specimens of wild species and their parts or derivatives and strictly protected species by issuing authorisations or certificates proving the legality of obtaining copies. These permits and certificates prove the legality of obtaining copies, and the forms of these documents are prescribed by EU regulations. As the amended EU regulations that regulate this particular area have been amended in the meantime, the law needed to be amended and complemented and therefore we are also witnessing these changes. The Law has been applicable since 2013 since certain deficiencies were identified, and it is necessary to lay down more clearly the conditions for the outcome of certificates for specimens of species and the conditions for.../incomprehensible/... and the conditions for registration of their cultivation, as well as to amend and supplement and appropriate infringement provisions. In addition to the framework for the implementation of the EU regulations, this Act or this proposal to amend the Law also prescribes the conditions of commercial use of the species not covered by these Regulations. The administrative procedure and content of the certificate form for the use of copies of strictly protected species from the nature of the Republic of Croatia which are not listed in the Regulation shall also be regulated. Therefore, the intensities of the Law are to ensure stronger treatment of control bodies, i.e. inspection, but it will not allow the Law itself but a clear and unequivocal definition of these institutions, and even a short time ago of mentioning the Inspectorate in equal and legal treatment towards all who violate legal regulations, including this Act. Today, too, uncontrollable overfishing is present in Croatia to use animal and plant specimens in international trade. Otherwise, I also said that during the debate in the first reading of the law, illegal trafficking in wild species happens in about 30% of the world's protected areas, and that is not exactly what Croatia is deprived of. According to some estimates, illegal trafficking in wild species worldwide is about 150 billion kuna. The wish of individuals to possess exotic species or objects or souvenirs made of animal and plant parts endangers the survival of these species. There is, of course, organized crime in the background. For all of these reasons, it is important to improve the law, but primarily ensure its implementation. The SDP club supports these amendments to the law, given that they relate to compliance with EU rules and a clearer definition of the concepts covered by this law. What we expect not only when implementing this law but we are consistent and in discussions on all other proposals of the law is the more zealous and responsible conduct of the State Inspectorate in order to ensure that this law is implemented in a truly consistent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113657	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block. They'll speak to the esteemed representative William Matul, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113658	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. So, trade in wild animals is certainly a topic of great importance for colleagues and colleagues and above all because it is in Croatia, but in Europe too it is a largely unregulated area, not enough... That's what many animal protection associations think of it. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] We agree that this law and the revision of this law is a step in one good direction, that it should be passed. However, as regards the very proposal of this law and these additions to the Law on cross-border transport, it still does not have much potential to influence the real problem of animal trafficking. What is currently in Croatia is that the ads are full of exotic and wild animals and here I have asked you state secretaries a question about this positive list. You answered me, but the data that we get is that such a positive list of those animals that would be okay and allowed to be held as pets still in Belgium, the Netherlands can certainly be said to be very decorated countries. But many countries are now learning because it is still shown that such a significant twist and a change of paradigm allows if that list is made, the list of animals that we agreed that it is okay to keep them as pets. I understand what you've told me that if you don't put some of them right away as well as anything with the law, everything that's forbidden is immediately beginning to be additionally desirable and it starts to be a status issue and symbol, that mobsters around the world must keep tigers home and raise them until I know what kind of dangerous things they are but a phase that it's not only in movies but it really exists and it's about black chronicles unfortunately speaking about it. Namely, why is all this important? In addition to what colleagues and colleagues have already counted that animals suffer extremely in breeding, trade, transport, and eventually in captivity. But what's too important at this time because we witness this animal is a reservoir of many diseases that can spread, and they can evolve into pandemics. And that is why we think that we should follow the example of Italy that I mentioned right after the terrible experiences, remember that we also came across Italy through the covid virus 19 and they really went on to consider it and last year they made a decision that is now being implemented within 5 months of this year, which is a complete ban on the import and use of wild animals from other countries, especially exotic animals. I say we think this should follow their example, because what Italy is trying to achieve is an effective prevention of virus spread and zoonoses. Zoonoses are these diseases, of course you know it and colleagues probably know it but I also need to say for people who don't know it are those diseases that are common to wild animals and humans and that, especially those who live very often in wild animals and who can move on to us and can make us quite troubles like SARS, like MERS and like covid-19. Since the 980s there has been an increase in trade in these exotic wild animals and they have become invasive and since then the transfer of these diseases has been growing. It should be noted that some of the most serious of these zoonoses are related to exotic, exotically imported animals and that wild animals carry about 72% of these zoonoses. Animal Friends warns us that this problem is alarming and is not sufficiently identified even at EU level, because we have only a few laboratories throughout the EU that can test certain zoonoses. And so they think that... it's really a matter of time before they come, for example. Covid-22, 23 or I don't know what number. Animal protection organisations have been warning for years that illegal trade in wild and exotic animals has been on an extremely large scale, a colleague mentioned a truly huge number for the whole world, but here, the figure is close to what the secretary of state said, in Europe it is estimated to be around 12 billion euros a year. So at EU level. Large additional costs result from the fight against illegal trade and the treatment of diseases caused by wild animals, and then, let's only remember when it was a bird flu, and that's also because people sell wild birds, something allowed, something illegal and then comes, as we know, when it goes to domestic poultry, that then forced farmers are slaughtering thousands of domestic animals to prevent the spread of disease, capture, eradication of invasive species that occur when people release into the nature of exotic pets after they are so far bored with it. Organisations are asking the EC to adopt measures to combat such trade effectively as soon as possible, taking into account the animals sold via the internet because of the role that exotic mammals hold as pets in EU Member States have in particular in the transfer of these zoonotic diseases and their analysis reveals that about one, if you are careful now, these are interesting data, one of the seven exotic pets that animal protection organisations have saved in the last few years, one of these exotic pets later, when tested, was carrying a potentially dangerous zoonotic pathogen. It's about the wild and exotic of these when they find them, however, when our dogs and cats and that, when we're also sick of them and we let them go and chase them around and they go and they're lost somewhere by nature, abandoned or other abandoned animals, the incidence of these abandoned animals of our potentially dangerous zoonotic pathogens was an amazing 50%. Here, these findings confirm that the current EU regulatory framework is not sufficiently equipped to prevent and detect and react to the risks of zoonotic diseases. In addition to health risks, trade in exotic pets has a devastating impact on biodiversity, both globally and within the EU, causing the population of wild animals to fall and that is indeed what makes them disappear. Finally, I will say just this, how much time I am allowed, and that is already said, many of these animals when they are small, sweet, lovely, like all cubs are lovely, and then when they grow up and when it is established that snakes, say, turtles live for 40, 60 years, then they are released into nature and then these very animals are very difficult to disrupt the biological diversity that is typical of a particular ecosystem. Animal Friends for years, here, points to this problem also when adopting the Animal Protection Act in 2017 has really proposed for the first time this positive list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113659	Now we move to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113660	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The debate on all the laws is somehow always about keeping and leading where my theme is form and content, so I always kind of look at what the law in form gives new or old, I compare with some other regulations and then we look at the content and here I will refer to a few sentences related to content. So we have regulation, we have compliance with the regulation, we have a situation where we know ourselves in a problem that happens to the trade of wild species, which means in cross-border traffic and what we need to take care of, we need to take care of ourselves. About your nature, about the situation we have, here we are already, I'm on behalf of the club, but also about the fingers and the wigs and all the other things and there we need to be uncompromising because it's the only way we can protect something. But here I was offered this further debate regarding the form of this law. So always in the legislation and in the laws that we have, we have some blues. The blues that have been happening with this new set of laws that a bunch of laws don't solve things all the way but we still have regulations and regulations. This law is not the case, but in this law we have an interesting situation. In the order of the Art. 7 of the new law is defined, for the first time I see it in one regulation, so I need to say what the form paper looks like, so it's said to be paper for forms of art. 9 must be in a certain way, as much as it has to be gram, it has to be 55 grams per square meter, which deviations can be from A4 format, and then it's said which color must be the original, the copies and everything else, and then it offered me all together to see if we have it in some other regulations, we don't. But in this Law, we have something else that has started to slip through quite often. Otherwise, the National Journal publishes the law, publishes certain forms. It has been decided here that the forms that are not published in the National Journal, the explanation is convenient, it is likable, that the ministry's name is actually changing, and that it will then not be published but will be published on the Ministry's website. Otherwise, this, now in the regulations that come fortunately for the second or third time to decide that part of the material belonging to a particular law is not published in the National Journal, where everything is published, but published on the web pages by the Ministry of Various Reasons. I have to admit, that's how I always get the lights above my head a little bit turned on when we have some kind of change compared to some common practice. As I have reacted every time and said, my people, let it not be too much of what we define by the rules and regulations. I have to admit that I've been intrigued by the fact that for the first time we have the right to look at the paper on which something is going to work, it seems to me that, and if something should be in the rulebook or some regulation it would be, but okay, it's decided to do it, but that something isn't published in the people's.../incomprehensible/... published in the National Journal, I think it's going to lead in a certain way to a little mess because the question is what to publish in the People's Journal, what not to publish because if the name of the ministry is going to change, you're going to have to have to change some other things, and you're going to come up with the law to change and supplement. I, I think that every time he decides to make some exceptions, those exceptions can lead to some kind of problem. For exceptions, you have to have some reasons. So on the Ministry's web pages, you're also publishing the law. So every law you have on.../incomprehensible/... especially when you have more changes, then you have some working, purified texts that are on the Ministry's website to make it clearer, you can't publish them in the National Journal. I don't think it's supposed to become a practice, I can see it wasn't responded to by the law office that you've agreed with together and the rest of it, I'd just use this pay phone and this bill to tell everybody a little bit, let's be a little bit more careful. I am in favour of being more flexible, I am in favour of somehow taking care of new situations and new things, but I'm afraid that sometimes when we introduce exceptions, we don't put ourselves in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113661	We have one replica, a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113662	Dear colleagues. You were talking about the very appearance of this Law, the concept of how it was made, come on, I'll agree with you very much here, and here's a question for you, if you know that there are only a dozen nature protection inspectors in Croatia today who are not currently under the direct authority of the ministry, but today under the inspectorate, who will implement this. Croatia is extremely rich, biodiversity, a lot of protected wildlife, is that, in your opinion, a sufficient number of nature protection inspectors who are in charge of this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113663	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113664	Thank you very much for your inquiry. When I spoke on behalf of the Club, I spoke very much about this relationship between the Ministry and the State Inspectorate and I speak very often and I am happy to talk about the inspector's problem because the inspectors should be in an extremely good and quality fit, they should be in terms of the procedural well-being at all, well in that part of great knowledge, and I'm afraid that's not possible. I recently received a letter from the State Inspectorate where they told me for one inspection that today they have them and that today.../incomprehensible/... so there are a third of them compared to 10 years ago, and of the number of them there are 50%, more than 50% of 60 years, that they are not there, that no one will come, that there are not enough and this is the case. So the inspector in the way they have to do the job just doesn't have enough and we can to prescribe whatever you want in the law, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a question of who's going to spend it. [[Thank you. Next... /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113665	...the debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113666	Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about the final bill, so in the course of the day we're going to vote on this law, this law has my support, I don't think it's a bad law, but here I would go from the end, what I put up with my colleague's replica, and before I talked about it in, here's a private conversation with the promoters. The key problem of this law, which is not bad, is the implementation of the law itself. Here, let the Secretary of State correct me, in Croatia there are only a dozen inspectors who deal with this topic, plus the problem of the State Inspectorate, the Ministry, the legislator well designed all inspections to be under one cap, but here, I will say since I also worked in this portfolio to say that things are not working and it is not good and it has to be fixed. So we need more inspectors, and we need another problem related to this, which is the problem of the entire public administration, as strange as that sounds to someone, bribery. Inspectors work today, not only inspectors, but civil servants often today have salaries below the national average, and when we look at the economy, with entrepreneurship, far, far lower, and of course we'll have negative selection, we won't have labour force, and that's one problem that we'll have to solve in the long run, and I don't know exactly how if we don't have money. Now let's do this in a row. The mentions were peri-peri-, of course, the peri-problems are a problem, although unfortunately the wigs are almost gone today, but okay. I also mentioned when I first read the problem of the hedgehogs, we talked about it in private, I call again, I appeal, okay, it's clear to me that previous studies should be made, but I'll warn that, I'll say on my part, let a biologist freely deny me, the hedgehog is useful for biodiversity and similar to, or useful as mosquitoes around, so the hedgehog devases, destroys the sea floor, leaves the desert behind. So fostering the hedgehogs especially one species, now I haven't been able to see the Latin names to say, is just like growing mosquitoes. Why don't you let me get my life-delivery papers free? Furthermore, the fingers of the respected secretary of state answer that your fingers come from BiH that's the old mantra, so I'll laugh, so you know as well as I do that the fingers are hatched, unfortunately in Croatia across the Adriatic coast, that some islands are devastated. Unfortunately, in many, many restaurants you can eat them, inspections find a way of inspection, lift the penalty here. The penalties are not small actually, the penalties are not small penalties here it's a fine sound, but let's see in the end a little bit and in the media we see who's being punished and in what way. And the propo of this is just yesterday, and today in Sibenik Rainbow Warrior means ship Greepace so one and he in his job description has these very properties that we're talking about. Bats, they're a little bit spoken of, but here's bats are the same species that are very endangered and for the end not to forget about their properties. The crabs, the river crabs, unfortunately, we in Primorje Croatia almost have no more river crabs at all. I'm going to say one concrete example, the Bribiscica River in Sibenik is one of the few rivers that still has river crabs or I'm going to say it had and then I see those river crabs with my eye in the next five tours I don't see river crabs. The inhabitants say that they are not there when they come from Sinj, so they pick them up, so they come from 15 cans of Jupol and pick up river crabs. So it's done in Croatia. I'm interested in setting you up as a representative of the ministry, has anyone in Croatia ever been responsible for the extraction of river crabs? And I'm responsible here for saying that we don't have any more of them at all, we don't have them in Primorska Croatia at all. We're getting on our backs because of a Dalmatian galovica that also doesn't have one, and the river crabs that are more valuable to me and it was more characteristic of our space about them. We mention, we protect the spaces of Dalmatian cough that no one has ever seen in 10 years at all, and river crabs, for example. We don't mention it. I would, however, briefly mention another description of the work of the inspection which should also be with this law in question, which are introducted properties, invasive properties. Here, 200m from the assembly, there's a pajamas Chinese introducted variety, because no one knows it's an introducted variety that needs to be ripped off, not nursed for example. or good, another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113667	Thank you. Dear Representative Simicevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113668	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague. What's forbidden and dangerous and expensive is whether we write laws to prevent certain negativity and you mention the lack of inspectors yourself. My question to you, are these offenders who do this, are they sanctioned enough that they are no longer relapsed or are they getting away with some fine so that they can do it again because they actually have more benefits than they have suffered certain penalties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113669	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113670	Dear fellow Shimičević. Since I worked in that branch similar to that touchingly close, I responsibly claim that no one, ha I won't tell anyone let almost anyone be sanctioned at all. If the inspector has also filed criminal and criminal charges against an offender, it has fallen in court or is simply not enforceable. The law on nature protection and these other laws is for you for the Croatian judiciary on the 16th thing, it is for them at all, they do not experience these laws at all. So it's all going into obsolescence, no one's being punished by these articles of these laws or... almost anyone and that's one big, big problem. So, God forbid no one's watching what I'm saying right now because you'd just be stimulating offenders to do this, maybe it'd be better if I didn't say this. But this is the secretary of state so you can deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113671	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've had interesting presentations by your colleague Zekanovic and this note about the toes is also particularly interesting. On the one hand, if we have banned toe fishing by law and if we think it is destroying the coast, which is a fact, then wouldn't it actually make sense from a moral point of view to ban the import of fingers, even from BiH. And by the way, I think you're right about this, that there's a dubious thing about whether it's actually fingers. I think there are a lot of cases where people give chapels, and people and charge them as fingers, but that's already another story then that's the story of consumer protection at the end of the day, isn't it? This could be regulated by European rules and supervision. And finally, as far as river crabs are concerned, the huge problem here is actually invasive species. American river crabs that are actually... European these rivers, there are but very few places. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113673	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113674	Dear colleague Glavasevic. So this law regulates trade in protected species so that according to this law it is prohibited. Of course, it's the customs inspection, it shouldn't be traded, so here when the secretary of state said it, I guess it was sarcastic, he meant illegal imports of fingers that are in BiH, of course. Now I think I don't know if it's forbidden in BiH, if it isn't me, it could be international co-operation to protect one of the properties that is extremely, extremely endangered. As for river crabs, you said well, we have an invasive species now especially in Neretva. The lower flow of the Neretva River American cancer, blue cancer if I'm not mistaken, I don't know the Latin names now, it's good that the ministry has launched a ministry, so it's allowed to catch that cancer, even I think, if that initiative was on your side, it's even stimulating fishermen to hunt, but maybe we could still do this, but another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113675	Now, finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Ankica Zmaic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113676	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we are today in our second reading discussing amendments to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species. We have heard from Secretary of State Horvat in the introduction what are the arguments for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, which are the objectives of these amendments and additions, and what issues we address with these amendments and additions and shortcomings in this law. It can also be concluded through other discussions that this Final Proposal of the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wildlife is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU regulations and regulations. These amendments and amendments to the law prescribe the implementation of a series of regulations defining cross-border traffic and trade in wild species at EU level, as well as the conditions of commercial use of cross-border trade in wild species, issuing certificates proving the legality of acquisition of those species. Amendments to the laws shall also address certain legal shortcomings in the process of issuing export and import licences and practices in cross-border transport and trade in animal and plant specimens. The procedures related to the Convention on International Trade of endangered species of wild animals and plants of the CITES Convention to which the Republic of Croatia is a signatories and a full party shall then be defined in detail. The treatment of commercial use as well as the proof of origin of species that are strictly protected shall be regulated. The competent authorities and their obligations to implement shall also be established and supervised by the enforcement of the provisions of the law. Finally, this final proposal also amends and complements infringements that also impose fines in euro. In order to fully implement this law, its amendments and additions are necessary and the HDZ Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113677	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, are now moving to a united discussion of the following two points: - Report on the implementation of the right to legal aid and spending in 2020 and - Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending in 2021. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 46. The law on free legal aid. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113680	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds, the Institute of Free Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia, was governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The Justice and Administration Ministry monitors law enforcement and is obliged to report to the government every year, and this assembly rules. The first part of the report gives an overview of the legislative and institutional framework for free legal assistance. The central part of the report provides an overview of the exercise of the right to primary and secondary legal assistance and the financing of primary and secondary legal assistance in the reporting year. The final part of the report describes the ministry's activities as the government's competent portfolio for the implementation of this law. In 2020, there was a change in the institutional framework of the system of free legal aid. On 1 January, the tasks of the state administration relating to the provision of free legal assistance are entrusted to the counties which have also taken over state officials including the presidents, directors, directors, letters and other documentation, as well as the equipment and means for the work of local government offices. The primary legal assistance shall include legal consultation of beneficiaries of legal aid and representation and written data, submissions in proceedings before public legal authorities. It is provided by authorised associations, legal clinics of the Faculty of Law and the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb. In 2020, primary legal aid was granted in 27,180 cases. Authorised associations provided 20,000 free legal aid. Legal clinics close to 2,000. The administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb some 5,300 cases. Compared to 2019, there was an increase in the number of primary legal aids by 31%. In doing so, the number of primary legal assistance was increased by authorised associations and the administrative bodies of the county and the city, the City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb. Secondary legal aid concerns the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and the exemption from the costs of judicial proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. The administrative authorities of the county received a total of 4.459 requests for the approval of secondary legal aid from which 3,016 applications were granted. Compared to 2019, a drop in the number of requests for secondary legal aid for cca 23% was reported. In view of the type of procedure, secondary legal aid was mostly granted in family relations procedures, and a total of 1,300 such cases. With regard to the forms of secondary legal aid in most cases, it was granted in the form of exemption from the payment of the court fee in 2,679 cases. The total planned financial resources for the reporting year for this institute are 4 million and 255 000 to provide primary legal assistance. The amount of 2 million and 100 grand has been paid. It funded 21 projects of authorised associations and 3 projects of law schools. It is the largest amount ever allocated for projects providing primary legal assistance, which is 9.9% higher than the amount from 2019. In order to provide secondary legal assistance, the amount of a million and 545 thousand 884 kuna was paid, which is 18.6% less than in 2019. Compared to the total amount paid for free legal aid, the payment procedure for primary legal aid is 57.71 while for secondary legal aid is 42.29%. Although it's 2020. A reduction in paid funds was paid by 4.3% less for providing free legal aid than in 2019, compared with the funds paid for secondary legal aid while a higher amount was paid for the provision of primary legal aid than in 2019. Also, the second year in a row more funds are paid to provide primary legal assistance than secondary legal aid. Something shorter without these general parts for 2021. So primary legal aid in 2021. In 24.950 cases, authorised associations provided 19,000, 1,890 clinics, and the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb 4.224 cases. Therefore, the total financial resources planned for this reporting year are at 4.140 thousand, for providing primary legal aid a million and 985 kuna were paid for secondary legal aid, a million and 935 kuna were paid for 25% more than in 2020, so 3 million and 920 thousand kuna were paid for free legal aid granted. The share of funds paid for primary legal aid is 50%, 50.3 while for secondary legal aid is 49.37%. That's the gentlemen I needed to introduce you to, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113681	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113682	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State, you've already mentioned the information when we've been compatriated these two years. 2020 and '21, respectively. that's in '21. In fact, there has been a decrease when we talk about primary legal aid of around 8%, but whether or not you have some knowledge or are in the ministry... which were the reasons, we know that both years were actually a cornerstone of the year when they were and the difficult conditions for sure work, but have you, have you thought about whether or not you know the reasons for the fall and whether you can say a few more words, so this law regulates free legal assistance, you said yourself primary, secondary to family legal procedures, executive procedures, consumer bankruptcy etc., but there are other positive regulations that actually cover some other forms if we can thus say legal aid where our citizens also have the possibility of having secured legal protection without paying anything, so if you can say a few words about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113683	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113684	Thank you very much. So the Institute of Legal Assistance goes after this, so the legal order wants to enable the most vulnerable groups of society to address the courts, so they ensure that courts and those who are not able to pay out of their own resources lawyers to provide legal assistance in their own, in their procedures that lead to administrative, litigation or any other procedure, so this substance here regulates administrative and litigation procedures primarily. Of course, this report and this law do not cover a large group that receives free legal aid and other exemptions through criminal proceedings. We also changed some institutes last year, the truth because of the European directives, and we have extended the segment very much, so we have lowered the possibility of hiring a lawyer on the cost of the state and on the police level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113685	Thank you. Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113686	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here you have also pointed out that the purpose of free legal assistance is to achieve equality all before the law, to achieve legal protection, and to access the court and other public bodies on equal terms. We have primary and secondary legal assistance, I will look back at the primary which was provided in 24.950 cases during 2021, the highest part of which was carried out by some 19,000 authorised associations, then the legal clinic about 1,900 cases, and the administrative bodies of the city, the City of Zagreb and the county around 4,400 cases. So we have 23 authorised associations in Croatia in '21. and they have done most of the legal aid work, are citizens more seeking assistance from associations, is that intention or are citizens simply more familiar with work, the work of associations than that of legal aid can also be obtained with administrative authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113687	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113688	Thank you. So it's hard for me to tell which are the reasons that more people are talking to associations, it's really if you were talking you could speculate, but the state through these 4 ccs. 4 million kunas finance these associations precisely with the intention of providing this primary legal protection or primary legal assistance, they advise them and they write submissions to them in certain court proceedings, and where this secondary legal aid is required, these people also address the counties and get lawyers to provide free legal assistance. I find it difficult to answer reliably what are the reasons that more people are talking, coming on, to associations and getting that legal aid, but all of this is financed by taxpayers' funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113689	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113690	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, when we talk about secondary legal aid after the user submits, after the applicant submits a request, the competent authority should adopt a solution within 15 days, and if that solution is negative or if the party is not satisfied with it, it shall have the right to file a complaint which must also be answered within the time limit, and there is the possibility of an investment in the action. However, I wonder if complaints are resolved within the time limit prescribed, I think it is extremely important for the parties, so here in this segment I am interested in the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113691	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113692	The honourable MPs, therefore, were also on boards having problems, and the situation where the Ministry of Justice and the Administration did not respond, so in all cases spotlessly and sometimes timelyly, what is this all about? So, it's about unsettled bases potentially, because we must therefore reliably determine the social justification of such a social reaction. So, in criminal law last year, we introduced a preliminary permit to represent him in such a way as to preliminarily, so if in the course of the proceedings, the reasons for his failure would have to be returned. It's a complicated mechanism, but it's probably going to have to be organized like that in this construction segment, so it's starting with everyone who's being turned to, so if it's not true that we have to commit it to the return of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113693	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113694	Thank you. In addition to your finding that free legal aid is served by taxpayers' funds, I will point to one other side which is also financed by taxpayers' funds, these are the bodies of public authorities. For example, state-owned companies and municipal city companies are very often the target whistlers or whistles suggest irregularities that occur in these public legal entities. On one such company, state and city lawyers pay their lawyers by public means, and so on and in lawsuits against whistlers, on the other hand, whistlers must pay their lawyers with their own money, and very often in a situation where they are out of a job. There you did not make any step, you did not provide the whistles with secondary legal aid at the expense of taxpayers' funds and there the rule of law test completely fell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113695	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113696	Dear colleagues. So, you're a colleague and you're a colleague and you're a lawyer, so you know that this is a social category and, of course, it's everywhere where whistlers would come into that category of state would respond as adequately to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113697	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As you have also heard from the Committee on Justice and the Ombudsman's report, there has been a complaint that, in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County due to the earthquake, the need for increased primary legal assistance, and I was wondering whether you would do something on the financial side, and then organisationally, given that this is a general and poor population, that this primary right of assistance in this area is in some way strengthened in view of the forest patterns needed and of the legal regulations that property regulations to address these problems in order to actually strengthen primary legal assistance in these areas that are damaged in the Sisak-Moslavina County earthquake?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113699	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113700	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I appreciate that sensitivity, we're all sensitive to this situation in Banovina, and here I am, by chance, a member of that task force to remove these damages with Vice President Medved and Milosevic and a series of state secretaries there, so the state administration is completely open to these people. We've already shut down all the patterns at the very beginning, so the state administration appears here in full terms as a service to these people, only possible that there are some noises in communication. So, from the very beginning, they should have submitted to these demands only data on themselves, real estate and therefore, in the gross plan, everything else the state administration had to do through various bases. We were going so far that the car went mobile with people through those rural parts to people and there on the spot filled out patterns with them. Here's what I'm expecting... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113701	Thank you. Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113702	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course, I will talk more specifically about this problem in my own presentation, but what I particularly want to point out and ask you, is it your priority and how do you think about people and families who have no citizenship, or are foreigners with unregulated status in the Republic for many years or even decades, which are primarily for social reasons? That's what I'm asking you because a lot of people come to me or it's about people who are some kind of legal vacuum because of lack of funds to exercise the right to stay or citizenship in the Republic of Croatia under regular procedures. Do you have any plan on how to meet them more, given that they are in an invisible position, while at the same time creating a problem for us because their status hasn't changed for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113703	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113704	Your Honor. Therefore, this law does not exclude the provision of legal assistance to both species and foreign citizens, to people without citizenship who are in need in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, the thing is that maybe certain associations that deal with this little bit more lit up with them and that they can unquestionably participate in these funds, so they are in the same position as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113705	Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113706	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. One of the main concerns of the free legal aid provider most often pointed out is the financing of course. Except as they claim, besides being small amounts, they are both ineligible or come late. Is there anything you can tell us if in 2020 and 2021 we are discussing today whether the situation has changed in this regard or whether this payment has changed for free legal aid providers now rather than it was in 2019?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113707	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113708	Well, I don't deal with it, they don't pay at the Department of Justice and the Department of Money, but from this report it's obvious that both of these reporting years had more at the position of the planned funds than was spent, so I don't see any reason to be late except technical reasons, I think it's a solution. So, in both of these years, we had more planned funds for this institute than we had spent than the associations and others have invoiced for free legal aid. So if there are any problems they are really technical not essential and we can easily remove them both with your help and tell us where they are late, so when we have the means when the service is done there's no reason not to pay them spotlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113709	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113710	Dear Secretary of State, here's my question on the secondary aid issue. We see that, in fact, in secondary aid or party representation that actually the numbers we see in the report certainly do not correspond to what needs are on the ground, and also among social groups, and that for years there has been a problem that lawyers don't really want to work for the benefits that the state has set. What do you think you should do about this, and do you intend to increase these fees to make secondary legal aid available in all parts of the country? The second question is, we have the legal assistance of the primary very poor geographically distributed. So we have parts of the country in which it is not available or is unequally available. It is primarily because the funds are awarded through competitions and primary legal aid is mainly done by associations and where they are not available or where they fail to pass the competition we do not actually have the primary legal aid available and these are very often the very parts of the country where they may need it the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113711	The Honorable Secretary of State will give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113712	Thank you, Your Honor. So I agree with you that things can always be better. That we can organize better, that we can be in that service to the citizens more accessible, but we are where we are. So here's what we have, let's not use the funds, so there's no excessive activity on the other side of that non-governmental sector, which, if it were proactive, would raise funds. As for this part of secondary legal aid granted exclusively by lawyers, I think it's a shame that this report or that things are not so well-conceived to see this criminal legal segment as well. He's of course I'm sure a dozen times bigger, so there are more services provided by lawyers through a criminal legal sphere than through a civil administration. So, first of all, the chamber has a high social sensitivity and they themselves receive parties of a socially lower standard and provide them with assistance. The state does that when it appoints lawyers under official duty and for how it is a poor right. So, and we expanded that glue when we put it down, it's no longer in the courts but even the police procedure in the field of reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113713	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113714	The esteemed State Secretary from the Ombudsman's report states that the funds allocated for free legal aid are insufficient and I am curious whether you are planning to increase these funds in the future, given that the number of groups that need it is growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113715	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113716	So what I'm going to say is, I just said a little while ago, so it's hard for me to exaggerate now and claim that she's wrong, but if we have two years left with the funds on the items that don't spend it saying something. It's not a problem, so it's not a big asset, it's 4 million of course it can be raised to society, it wouldn't hurt anyone anywhere, and if it were to rise to 8 million. Of course, this should be used in an adequate and beneficial way for these people, and it is not the point of sharing it with associations that will not then reach the last man who expects an adequate response in a situation where they need legal help.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113717	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113718	Dear Secretary of State, my question concerns the Committee for Free Legal Assistance. Tell us in whose jurisdiction this commission is operating. They have a minimum legal provision three times a year to meet, so I wonder how many times they met last year and before last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113719	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113720	I don't carry that information in your head, so how many times have they met? The Justice and Administration Ministry is the government's portfolio responsible for the implementation of this law, which prepares this report for the government, and the government submits it to you. So, how many times have they met and made decisions, if not in the report, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113721	Thank you very much. Let's go, let's move on to the debate. First, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, is not there, is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113722	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, how often it is in my case in this debate I will deal with groups of citizens who are among the most vulnerable in our society. The topic dealing with these two reports may not be something that is very interesting to the general public, but because of its context and meaning, it is very important for some of our fellow citizens but also for foreigners who need it. The social situation and social status of users of this type of aid also include a part of my compatriots members of the Roma national minority. Among them, the majority of the requirements relate to learning about certain rights or to the consumption of certain rights which can be achieved, or status issues concerning citizenship and obtaining documentation. personal documents. It is particularly worrying that many such persons have lived in Croatia for many years and decades, but they still have not succeeded in gaining citizenship and cannot consume any basic rights such as free healthcare. Of course, conditions for obtaining citizenship do not generally arrive in due time because they do not generally have financial opportunities to regulate health care and other needs. However, it is about persons who are basically permanently inhabited, familyly connected, and the like. What should be pointed out is that the Roma from Croatia do not have these problems contrary to the applicable opinion because Roma in Croatia are an indigenous national minority here for centuries and are those who have no regulated status of exception, not a rule. When I talk about this, I remind you that Croatia as a state party is two basic instruments on without citizenship of the 1954 Convention and the 1961 Convention. Limited data on people without citizenship are only available in Croatia, but the figures are mostly outdated or misjudged so that we cannot determine with certainty the exact number of persons in that status. In Croatian laws, there is a definition of a stateless person, but there is no special procedure for determining without citizenship and granting adequate protection of persons without citizenship according to the 1954 Convention, without citizenship can be... and can be assessed on a hop basis in other procedures, but on the basis of no citizenship, there is no right other than a travel document and in Croatia there is no easier way to naturalise people without citizenship which should be considered a little better in the context of the persons I mentioned, which are permanently family and in other ways for years or decades related to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there are limited safeguards for the provision of arbitrary arrests of stateless persons, but NGOs report widespread detention at the border without appropriate legal proceedings or individual assessments. In Croatian laws, there are certain protection measures to prevent and reduce the occurrence without citizenship, but there are significant derogations and they do not comply with the standards set out in the 1961 Convention as indicated by associations involved. Associations which are primarily engaged are unfortunately lacking financial resources and personnel, or are done to people who are willing to do so willingly, but who do not make a profit which is certainly commendable, but who need to be given more space for their voice to be heard exclusively. Although there is partial protection to prevent citizenship for children born without citizenship in Croatia in practice there are various problems. I will take the opportunity on my behalf and on behalf of everyone who helped thank the people and associations who provide such a kind of assistance, the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara cooperates with one such association of the PGP from Sisak. During the last year, 877 legal advice was received in various legal areas in the framework of providing free right of assistance in that period of 458 users. The topic consists of 180 submissions, 118 documents were produced, cross-border and within the country and 290 cases were successfully completed. These statistics identify 255 Roma, most of them face the problem of unresolved status in the Republic of Croatia and obtaining personal documents, among them 80 people have problems without citizenship or are at risk of losing their citizenship. The association worked in 40 cases of temporary stay, in 14 permanent stay cases and 14 citizenship cases while the other cases are closely related to the settlement of status issues. In 2021. The PGP did not record positively completed cases of citizenship. This is precisely the reason why legislation prevents parties from exercising further rights once they regulate temporary stay. Due to the enormous amounts of health insurance that the party is to pre-iumate debts on this basis as well as means of maintenance by a member of a family that most parties do not have, in some cases, have been experiencing for more than 10 years. I believe that such a situation is unsustainable for people in that status and therefore I appeal to the competent authorities to launch a dialogue on the Law on Citizenship or how to prevent the current situation from having dozens of even hundreds of people in our country who, for social reasons, are found in for them with an unembarkable legal vacuum and for more than a decade. I also appeal this way to find a framework for adequate... the help of the state associations dealing with these issues because the annual amounts so far do not cover any cold drive and one salary of a graduate lawyer, which is certainly a minimum which would give such associations the basis to find other sources of funding on their own, and I believe that their contribution to institutions and individuals and the general role in society and in any way justifies it. It is not necessary to forget the role of legal assistance associations and citizens in the earthquake affected areas in the process of achieving the rights related to this disaster. In addition to other crises, the final situation in Ukraine requires enhanced work of free legal aid providers in order to provide comprehensive legal assistance to refugees from Ukraine, starting with the regulation of status, education of labour rights and others related to the nosetriification of documents, applications, complaints, correspondence, requirements, etc. All the above only further strengthens the need for free legal assistance because the need for socially endangered citizens in the Republic of Croatia especially members of national minorities, among which I particularly point out Roma who do not have adequately resolved status in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the right to exercise other human and civil rights such as: from the social care system, unfortunately there is and is growing because of the economic and moral crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113723	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Vesna Nadj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113724	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, we have a report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance for 2020 and also a report for 2021. If the ruling declares themselves to rule of law and access to justice of all citizens regardless of income and property price, then, as the Law on Free Legal Assistance and requires in Article 46 of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the right to free legal aid by 30 April each year, not in July 2021 for 2020, and that the Croatian Parliament discusses a report on the right to free legal aid without delay. But it is obvious that the debate between the rulings on the right to free legal assistance was the last hole in the play, so these two reports were too much of ours in the package during the debate, since the remarks from the previous parliamentary debate or the remarks of the Ombudsman's mother-in-law were not seen as something that should be reacted to and improved the system. Here we are talking about the achievement of the fundamental principle of rule of law, the approach to justice and the equality of all citizens before law and public law. These paths of access to justice must be transitory for all citizens and must not be entrenched by obstacles to the financial nature for which certain categories of citizens cannot exercise their human right of access to justice. And what categories of citizens are these? It is more than a fifth of the population in the Republic of Croatia who are at risk of poverty, it is the third of the people in the Republic of Croatia who are barely joining the end. When we add Covid to this the crisis and earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina County and Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje, Karlovo County, then it is clear that there was a need to significantly increase the budget resources for free legal aid and create conditions for these funds and dedicated spending. In addition to the provision of budgetary resources, an effective system of free legal assistance was needed to provide practical, efficient and timely legal assistance to citizens in need, not to allow citizens, not to complain that the requirements for the achievement of free legal assistance are so complex that they need to be helped in filling them. And is this system effective and adequate for the needs of citizens? The primary legal assistance provided by authorised providers, associations, legal clinics and administrative departments in the counties shall include legal advice, submissions and representation to public authorities, the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations, and legal assistance in non-judicial dispute resolutions. The secondary legal assistance with legal representation with legal representation in the legally defined legal areas also includes the exemption from the costs of judicial proceedings and of the skills and the exemption from the payment of court fees. Property conditions for the achievement of secondary aid mean that the total income of applicants and members of their household do not pass monthly according to the household member the amount of the budget base, which is 3.326 kuna and that the total value of the assets does not exceed 60 budget bases and 199.560 kuna respectively. Compared to 2020, when the primary legal aid was granted in a total of 27,187 89 cases in 2021, there was a reduction in the number of primary legal aid provided by 8.23%, while the reduced number of primary legal aid was recorded by the administrative authorities of the county and the City Office for General Administration and Property Legal Affairs in the City of Zagreb by 21.27% and the authorised association by 4.19%. On the other hand, the legal clinic recorded an increase in the number of primary legal aids by 5.79%. Unlike 2020, when the most used primary legal aid in the form of general legal information is 45.42%. In 2021, primary legal aid in the form of legal advice was used in 49.41%. As compared to 2020, when a total of 4.459 requests for secondary legal aid were submitted in 2021, a drop in the number of requests for secondary legal aid was recorded by 10.05%. As in 2020 and 2021, secondary legal aid was most often granted in family relations procedures and more than half of the cases. In 2021 as well as in 2020, the most frequently used form of secondary legal aid was the release from payment of court fees in 39.19 cases. After that, there is a representation in court proceedings of 31.06% of cases, and a release from paying the costs of court proceedings at 26.8%. Most of the use of secondary legal aid was female, the beneficiary of secondary legal assistance was female, as in 2020 and in 2021 more than 65%. The funds for the organisation of the system and the provision of free legal assistance shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2021 and projections for '22. and '23. They're secured, actually they've planned 4 million kunas. With funds to provide primary legal assistance in the amount of a million 885 thousand kuna and funds to provide a secondary 2 million 155 thousand. Out of the total funds planned for organising and providing free legal assistance for the provision of primary legal aid, the amount was paid is less than the planned amount of a million 985 thousand, and for providing secondary legal assistance to millions of 935 thousand 807, totaling 3 million 920 thousand 807 kuna. So it wasn't even this small of a plan for secondary legal aid that failed to be spent. The third year in a row more funds are paid to provide primary legal assistance than to provide secondary aid. A public tender for the financing of projects of authorised associations and legal clinics for the provision of primary legal assistance in 2021 was published on the Ministry's website already on 29 January 2021, but only 25 May 2021 was the decision to grant funding to 23 projects of authorised associations and law schools for legal clinics to provide primary legal assistance from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. So, 4 months after what was announced the tender was, the financial resources were realised. It is therefore unacceptable to leave the association and legal clinic without funding projects for 4 months. In addition, the amount of a million 985 000 to be provided to authorised associations and legal clinics for projects providing primary legal assistance is therefore 5.9% lower than the total amount in 2020. and therefore one project less than 23 projects compared to 24 projects 2020. The compensation for the provision of secondary legal assistance provided by lawyers for certain legal actions and certain types of proceedings shall be determined in points, i.e. the value of the points shall be determined in the amount of seven kunas, which is obviously demotivating to hire a lawyer because it is lower compensation for regular legal services than regular legal services which is 10 kuna. When we add that in some islands and other isolated areas listed by the Ombudsman, the list of lawyers providing secondary legal assistance is not very good. The Ombudsman also stated in this 2021 report that the complaints made during 2021 were. Most of these were related to the long-term resolution of complaints, solutions in free legal aid, despite recommendations made by the Ministry of Justice and Administration in the 2020 report. The appeal proceedings continue to take an extremely long time, which is contrary to the provision of the Article. 17. The law on free legal aid prescribed by the Ministry of Justice and the Board of Appeal shall decide no later than eight days from the receipt of an orderly appeal, while, according to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, that deadline is even sometimes more than three years inadmissible. The Ombudsman also states in the report that since the outbreak of the epidemic, it has received more and more requests from citizens for legal assistance in the form of consultation, submissions, etc. and in order to inform citizens of the conditions and method of realization of free legal assistance except through the Justice and Administration and Administrative Authorities' websites in the county should be systematically implemented, for example through media, posters or distribution of leaflets to public authorities and in other ways available to as many citizens as possible. The Ombudsman also stated that the budgetary resources for the system of free legal aid are not sufficient to ensure the continued work of authorised providers, associations and legal clinics which at the same time cannot apply for tenders from other state bodies, since the system of free legal aid is exclusively financed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the unit of local, regional and regional self-government. However, a large number of local, regional district self-government units cannot finance free legal aid because they do not have sufficient resources. Citizens often address associations because they are in direct contact with citizens, often act on the ground and have direct insight into their daily needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113725	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113726	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113727	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDSS, and a respected representative of Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113728	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. So, at first we could say that we have a dry statistical data set in the form of reports for the previous period, but I think we are talking about one important topic today because we are talking about two reports on providing free legal assistance for 2020 and '21. And it's a shame that in the '20s report. We haven't said anything before, but maybe this gives us a chance to make a comparison. A comprehensive system of legal aid has been established for persons who are particularly vulnerable to property in resolving their existential issues, which is important because they prevent expensive court proceedings and protect citizens' rights. Not many people who find themselves in a difficult life situation see free legal aid as primary or secondary as the only way out and as a guarantee of such procedural equality of arms. The earthquake affected areas are evidence of the importance of free legal aid or evidence of the importance of free legal aid because it is known that the precondition for the initiation of the renewal procedure is the arrangement of property law relations in the property for which the application for which the truth does not satisfy a large number of properties in the earthquake affected areas, so additional legal procedures had to be initiated. Therefore, it was necessary for the population in the area to provide timely and comprehensive advisory legal assistance on which the respected secretary of state had said something, but it is an opportunity to say that it was just such a comprehensive advisory and timely and comprehensively providing the Serbian National Council through its legal department that was very up-to-date on the ground. And when it comes to this report, the first part until we get to the statistical actually from year to year identical to the crown figures was expected to be less, however, free legal aid was granted on the contrary, especially in a significantly larger number compared to 2020 and 2021, even 31.48% compared to the aid granted in 2020 compared to 2019. We heard that citizens for free legal aid most often address associations, it's kind of very clear to me and why, they're simply associations are in direct contact with citizens, they work in the field, they have direct insight into everyday needs, and it's visible from this report that even 80% in 80% of cases of free legal assistance provide associations, slightly less administrative departments in the county. The increase in the number of primary legal aid granted in 2020 was unfortunately not followed by an increase in financial resources, but was somewhat reduced in 2021. It is, of course, something that does not serve us honor. So to be clear, maximum amount of fees to lawyers for free legal aid, and office and directorial costs, when that amount is allocated to 12 months, it is evident that, at best, the monthly amounts available to the association and the legal clinic for the provision of free legal aid amounting to a lot of miserable 7000 916 kuna. That is why I will point out for years what we have been saying for free legal aid is not enough to ensure the continued work of authorised providers who at the same time cannot apply to competitions from other state bodies, since the system of free legal aid is exclusively financed by the competent ministry, and the unit of local and regional self-government. And there is an additional problem, which the distinguished colleague said something about, but not to mention that more JLS is not able to finance legal aid providers, so then I get the question and bring these people less developed areas into a more unfavourable position than others. In my replica, I said something about funding, I don't know if I've been taken the right way, so I'll explain it in detail. The problem of the technical nature provided by legal aid providers very often in contacts points out, which is that through the system of free legal aid the payment of funds is as we heard insufficient, and on the accounts of the provider of free legal aid is realised in general during the 5th and 6th months, it is of course not seen in this report, but we must believe what people provide free legal assistance. They complain that they remain without the means to work during most of the year and their work is monitored by uncertainty and uncertainty, some of the associations have therefore had to close the doors of their offices and base themselves mainly or be based on a voluntary basis and I am thinking and here I call on it to consider perhaps that such situations should be prevented by means of the multiannual funding of the free legal assistance programme. It's just a matter of thinking about it as a possibility. One of the problems is certainly the long-term long-term resolution of the appeal for a solution to free legal aid, and there is a lawyer in part of her report on free legal aid, stating that in one case, the person who filed an appeal for a solution in the 8th month 2017, after which, neither after 3rd g. No response received. Furthermore, the county offices are unable to quickly process the submitted requirements, and the parties have a short deadline to invest legal medicines. The most obvious example is the person who reported to the Serbian National Council just mentioned, who was given an extraordinary resignation and on whom she had the right to appeal for 15 days or 15 days for a response and was given a solution only after 3 months, which means that she has two options left or that she defends herself or pays for a lawyer's service. The possible problem is that the right to free legal aid has primarily citizens, as well as permanent residents, while the temporary stay related to reciprocity is linked to the reciprocity of the state of which it is a citizen. Some associations have cited a significant number of parties, returnees of foreigners, who have been tortured for years with the right to permanent stay from year to year, and it is difficult to exercise the right to free legal assistance. With regard to the visibility of free legal aid, they may also need to pay additional attention to this and, therefore, through the website and the Ministry and the county departments, they should somehow systematically through the media, free legal assistance and promotion. It is evident from all of this that free legal aid definitely has certain problems, especially when it comes to financing, but nevertheless it contributes to the achievement of the initial objective, which is to improve the legal position of users of free legal aid. In addition to suggestions that are well-intentioned, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the report for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113729	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the honourable representative Michel Jaksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113730	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, once again a good day to all. This is a topic and a report that certainly does not create such an attraction in the media area as when we discuss constitutional court, the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the police director's report or when we choose new leaders and leaders of those bodies because somehow it always turns out that they are much more important topics and of course they are very important, but free legal aid always goes somewhere under the radar and very little is discussed and considered and presented all that it contains in itself and all that it should bring to our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. What I think is very important to highlight when we talk about free legal aid to the tool most often sought by citizens who are socially vulnerable, socially sensitive and who often turn to free legal aid because they simply have no means, neither the ability nor the power to protect their interests in any other way, or in many situations to protect and preserve their own existence. I know about this subject since Koprivnica as a city has free legal assistance and a legal clinic in city hall areas and, of course, often in the hallway you meet all those people who are waiting, you hear the problems they have and what's most frantic, you get to know yourself firsthand in many situations, especially those who are socially endangered and bring the system itself or make the law stronger by using that someone is not legally subdued enough or that there is simply not enough financial and other capacity to fight some legal struggles where often unfortunately, at the end of the day, injustice prevails. What is a fundamental observation in front of the SDP Club and what we want to draw public attention to is that today we are discussing reports for 2020 and 2021 it is certain that if we combine two years into 2022 that this is not the best indicator and the best step to tell people that this is an important field for us and that we want to develop this field. But it goes on hand and the official promoter goes unfortunately and by hand, on hand goes, on hand and on hand to all of us sitting here in the assembly and definitely that's the crime of all of us. I would like to apostrophe that the ministry is deliberately, so it can be read, does not provide information on the number of complaints made by the parties to the first-degree solutions of the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb, which was formerly the office of the state administration. So the question of all the questions is why we can't see and hear how many complaints and why they're filed. We also have no data on the number of administrative disputes against secondary solutions to ministries. A legitimate question why are we running away from those numbers? What may be even more interesting in this debate, because over the past few weeks we have debated a lot about the Constitutional Court both in this and that way, and we are calling upon the Constitutional Court for a time, and then we are not referring to the Constitutional Court, and then we say that we are waiting for some political conclusion within the party to accept what the Constitutional Court says. On 8 September 2021, the Constitutional Court decided to order the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to take second-degree solutions against the 2018 appeals. So, in 2018, it's 2022 today with all the parties and the appropriate cash compensation due to the length of the proceedings and here we come to that extreme absurd because the chief of all these officers, this is not now the Supreme Court, it's the DORH, it's the police, it's our fault, it's the universe. The head of all those officials who decide in the ministry against complaints is exactly a resolute minister, which means that perhaps the principle ministry has consciously placed the parties in a position exactly like this where the Constitutional Court eventually intervened. The deadline for a solution to the appeal is 8 days from the receipt. The Constitutional Court found that we have cases from 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021. And again, I'm going to say what I said at the very beginning, it's about the most socially endangered people. What we would still like to draw attention to in that formal section that the report contains data on the financing of free legal aid, but we do not need data on the funds returned to the budget for exactly the legal reasons listed, as well as on the possible interest payments paid. The same approved requirements for the use of secondary legal aid as we have accurately summed up do not correspond to the sum of the procedures on pages 37 to 42 and pages 11 to 16. And certainly this is today's debate on the report, we would like to stress that I am still a lack of data in terms of a large number of data that should be solved by first-degree officials, which should be obtained by making decisions on the approval of free legal aid itself, which, on the one hand, slows down the procedure because let's face the question of whether those who decide in that first-degree have sufficient legal knowledge for that, all of which are still not clear to some concepts or official persons, and we still had them in the law. And if it's not clear to the official, we have it in the law, the question is, how should it be clear to all these parties who come for free legal aid, and I repeat for the third time most often it's about people with social problems. Because we do not continue to comply with specific laws, for example, they can state the Social Care Act, maintenance aid, guaranteed minimum compensation, as well as the Law on Croatian defenders and the concept of supply, and, of course, when we engage people who decide on that first degree and people who come with their problems to create an entire forest where no one can eventually meet and then come to all these complaints in 2017, '18, '19, '20, '21, '22, intervention of the Constitutional Court, not solving, standing and just prolonging the social gap which is a pity because it is a law that should be very noble, something very righteous and protects those who are most often weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113731	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113732	Thank you. One of the colleagues who had previously spoken who was no longer in the assembly referred to the number of registered speakers, and the fact is that we are discussing this in late afternoon terms, so he concluded that this is obviously not a topic of some of the top interests of the general public. And I just think that this is quite a topic that should be a topic of the top interest and the general public, especially those that think that Croatian society is deeply devoured and soaked by injustice and corruption. And very often our citizens believe that the injustice they feel on their skin stems from the corruption of the entire system and then say that some reform of the judiciary should start from cleaning away from corrupt judicial and other judicial personnel. I am not running away from the fact that in any case it is necessary to cleanse the system from those who do not belong in that system, but I claim that what citizens feel as injustice, and very often they do not know how to express it, they do not know where it actually comes from, comes from that they are not able to exercise their rights in courts and not only because they are disabled because, for example, they are not all in a field where a court or some sort of facility would be at their disposal or not having the means to physically reach that court but under the inability of access to justice or even the system of exercising their own rights stems from the fact that they do not have the financial means to pay for someone who could actually help them to comply with legal regulations. And that is why this institute of free legal aid should actually be served, so that all those whose social situation is such that legal aid cannot be obtained from a lawyer who will in some way be paid by the state to provide an adequate replacement. In replicas, the ministry's representative asked the question of how he was going to react to complaints from the attorney general that the funds were not enough, and then it was responsible that the report actually shows that one part of the funds and returns or is not being spent. However, this must not lead us to the wrong conclusion that the funds have neither enough to be spent properly. Unfortunately, we can't even know at this point whether the 3.5 to 4 million kuna is properly spent because this report doesn't say anything about it. It speaks statistically of funds being allocated between legal clinic associations and lawyers providing secondary legal assistance, however, nothing about their quality and nothing about their content. As for the Commission for Free Legal Assistance, which is drawn up as some strange beak from the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, so the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Bars, and the representatives of the Law Schools and the authorised associations, we don't even know if they have met at all, let alone whether they have analysed those reports that provide free legal assistance to the Ministry, the Ministry of Government, the Government Assembly, we have no key information at all. So I will now say something on the basis of my own life experience, legal and legal experience, and I must immediately mention that I am a former lawyer and intend to return to law after this term I would not like anyone to think that I am here now defending the interests of financial, interest of my own branch and attacking associations, thus making it more legal to defend some of them who have acquired and the reputation and trust of the public in their work so far, however, I believe that the system of free legal assistance as it is now set to be fully changed, therefore redesigning the architecture itself and that the reform of the judiciary is just beginning here. I am here to say that when organizations provide free legal assistance, this primary in terms of the first information, no one checks the first advice in terms of the actual quality of their legal knowledge, and we cannot know whether that first initial conversation or legal advice was such that the recipient or the user of that service was of any help and purpose. It seems to me that there would be wherever and where more high quality to allow all socially vulnerable groups to be paid by a lawyer who will be paid out of the state budget because it is the only professional guarantee enough, and it is also the only people who have the responsibility, the responsibility for providing advice that legal clinics and associations do not have, and that is the only right guarantee that someone who really needs protection that protection will be able to obtain it in the way that they can achieve it or have the one who has their own financial resources. If we don't secure it then we've failed in that basic goal, which is the equality of weapons and equal access to everyone independent of their property. And when we talk about how this secondary legal aid is currently granted, we see that this system does not, in that organisational sense, do what it should do. Imagine now that you need, for example, a lawyer who will draw up some kind of appeal, a period of eight days for your appeal, your office of the state administration refuses to grant you, unfounded refusal to provide secondary legal assistance, you have a 15-day deadline to appeal to the Ministry of Justice, but within that time, you have already had the opportunity to exercise your right. And if the ministry doesn't even correct its mistake, so the deadline has already passed, but even after the deadline, the ministry doesn't make a decision as it should and that the administrative dispute that has been decided for several years, I ask you what is wrong with the legal problem of the person who addressed the state for help? She's just gone. And then we come up with a third thing that I don't think anyone's thinking about, which is what the state actually finances and how. Namely, the Croatian public service is a very networked and numerically exaggerated service, from an excessive number of cities, counties and municipalities to over a thousand public companies, and then various other public bodies. On the aside that perhaps some of the public authorities listed as such in the Register of the Information Commissioner may not have to be, for example, private kindergartens, but the fact that there are 6,000 thousand. When we talk about these very budget users more or less, they all have some of their own lawyers who pay. When we talk about state-owned companies, I'm sure some of them, on an annual basis, pay lawyers who repeatedly exceed this amount that the state has allocated for free legal aid. Let us only remember those years when during the former government in the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb spent 8 million kuna on lawyers, so that is when the system goes against citizens, and all the poor and financially disbursed citizens when they need help from the state to finance their legal advice get more than in half less than 4 million kunas, respectively. As long as the system is like that, we can't talk about gun equality, it just doesn't exist. Therefore, the system should be reconstructed in a way that, in place of a legal clinic, by providing free legal assistance to lawyers only, lawyers should be assigned as they are assigned to the criminal cases of the HOK in accordance with those who have applied for that tender, and associations may possibly have their own specialized subjects, for example, the whistle protection association will be involved in the protection of whistles, the Association for the Protection of Women from Violence will deal with this topic, but in that sense, when a specific victim or a specific, specific natural or legal person needs assistance then will be given by a lawyer who may be working with that association. However, in order for these structural reforms to have a goal, they have the right purpose and in order to achieve their goal, a whole series of other topics must be reformed, among other things, and the tariffs of the lawyers themselves must be further liberalised, not as fixed as it is now in such a way that individual lawyers can give up their high fees themselves for the benefit of some socially vulnerable groups and the state should allow them such contracts, not that they themselves are illegally doing some of their dumping prices because they want to be socially and socially responsible, and believe me, there are also such cases in practice. As long as we don't have this, we'll have this dry report that'll just say how much money we've spent or haven't, and those who need legal help can't come to that legal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113733	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative Damir Habian will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113734	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So we are discussing together these two reports for 2020. And 2021. What I have actually asked in my replica and the Secretary of State, so this report includes the actual implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, therefore in civil and administrative proceedings, but I also think it is important to reiterate once again that all those citizens who are unfortunately in such a situation are provided of course and legal assistance in criminal proceedings where we know that they are therefore granted at the request of defenders under official duty. At first, I think that what the Secretary of State said is therefore the Institute of Free Legal Assistance as an instrument that ensures equality between all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia before the law or some lever that serves as an insurance for citizens to achieve legal protection, of course access to court and other public bodies on equal terms. The introduction was, of course, said what may not have been said again, so I also have a feeling that maybe citizens in this country are not really familiar enough to know that there are actually these two kinds of legal aids, so this primary legal aid and secondary assistance and what is actually the difference in it and who to address in the case of a specific or general person, when you are looking for some general legal advice or if you are looking for protection from a court or looking for protection in a working legal procedure, so, for example, in which cases it is a lawyer or it is an association of those who have passed in a public competition. As far as these reports are concerned, there have been some objections that we can discuss together today in the '20s. And in '21, although I don't think it's even bad, I think we can actually compromise the changes that took place in '20 in relation to '21, no matter what the years are actually about, and one and another of these periods of the pandemic, which is why my question to the secretary of state was the reason for this reduction in the number of requirements regarding primary legal aid, whether it is, but probably since one and another year covered by the pandemic was not a covid crisis, whether an analysis was made within the ministry when this report was being carried out. So, we have already heard, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, authorised providers of therefore free legal aid with which associations are those associations which are, of course, registered as legal aid providers are high schools that carry out university studies in the scientific field of law through legal clinics. I think it is actually very good in practice, I can say, for example, in the town of Varazdin where, indeed, almost on a month or twice a month, they are doing such a thing, i.e. giving citizens the opportunity to provide services through these legal clinics, and, of course, the administrative bodies of the county, or the City of Zagreb, in which the work is done on the part of the occasional affairs of the state administration relating to the provision of legal assistance. What I said, so compared to 2020. when we had in primary legal protection 27,180 cases, so in '21. There has been a slight decline, so of 8% of 24.950 requests for legal, primary legal aid and what I said might be good for the future, since this report will cover 2022. to make an analysis or to then be combined and to determine why there is either growth or decline in relation to the requirements of primary legal assistance. If we cross-reference data to provide secondary legal assistance for the '20s. and '21. We see that a total of 4.459 applications were submitted in '20, 2020, in '21. Something smaller, so 4,011. However, if we compare and look at what may be a more significant number of approved applications, then we actually see that in one year and in the second year, almost identically about 4 thousand applications are granted. As regards the types of procedures which are granted secondary remedies, legal aid, the most authorised in family legal procedures, then really legal procedures, enforcement procedures, equal procedures and procedures relating to consumer bankruptcy. As regards the financing of free legal aid, they shall be provided naturally in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year '21. This amounted to 4 million kunas, so for primary legal aid million 985 and secondary legal aid of two million 155 thousand. Of the intended funds for the provision of primary legal aid, the amount of a million 985 thousand has been paid, and for the provision of secondary legal aid a slightly smaller amount, therefore, a million 935 thousand kuna. So if we combine the 2020 funding, 2021, 7% more funds were paid in 2021 than in 2020, and if we only look at this segment of secondary legal aid, then it's in '21. There was a 25% increase in the year. In order to ensure primary legal assistance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by ensuring the balanced territorial distribution of legal assistance projects on the website of the Ministry of Justice and of the Administration, a public tender for the financing of projects of authorised associations and legal clinics for the provision of primary legal assistance has been announced. Of which, a total of '21 reports are visible. a total of 31 applicants or primary legal aid providers, after an expert assessment of the projects notified, the decision allocated financial resources for them 23. It is evident that one notifier or provider of that primary legal aid has not submitted its annual report and has been invited to actually return that non-performing asset to the state budget. In relation to secondary legal aid, funds are paid for fees, so for the work of lawyers, experts, interpreters, witness costs, insights and court ads. To lawyers, compensation for the provision of secondary legal assistance shall be paid on the basis of the accounting of costs in accordance with the decision to grant secondary legal assistance. If I say again, we'll do this data in the '20s. and '21. The year then we see that almost 25% more funds were paid than in '20, 2020. It is also important to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and Administration, has adopted a regulation on the value of the amount to determine the compensation for the provision of secondary legal aid for 2021 and the value of the fee for determining the work of a lawyer is set at 7 kuna as it was in 2020. This report was drawn up in accordance with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, so there have been these, there have been some objections that something here is missing or that there should be something else, but then, of course, it is necessary to amend the law itself which is the basis for the adoption of these reports. All in all, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113735	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113736	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, I have worked really long on this topic in terms of fighting for Croatia to ever get the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and I remember when we had a large coalition of associations even during EU accession and managed to fight for the first law. We were already saying that in fact, the way the law made it, it will not provide what was the objective, which is that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia really has the same access to justice regardless of its social status because it has actually been seen that through a series of restrictions set in law, that a bureaucratic procedure that comes to legal aid will actually be too difficult for many citizens. And when you're wondering why the number of people who are looking for free legal aid is actually falling, especially in relation to the primary one, I think the fact is that for many of these and primary ones, it's unattainable either in terms of geographical dislocatedness, or in the sense that simply for what they need the whole procedure they have to go through is not adequate. Here, counterpart Habib said before me that unfortunately citizens do not know that they have the right to primary or secondary free legal aid. So I think who's to blame for not knowing? ... You mean the difference between, so yes, but they don't know, you understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They don't know, a lot of people really don't know because we've never had a campaign about it. So there was no big public campaign about where citizens can get free legal advice, free legal information, where it is located in their area. So that's never been it. The second thing was clear from the beginning that the secondary legal aid would prevent lawyers or most lawyers from working for the money. And the fact is today that the vast majority of them refuse you, refuses to accept at all a request for free legal aid. And if you were to mention that if this were to add up the criminal cases to see how much the lawyer actually provides, so look at it going, first of all it's not according to this law, that's why it's not here, so it's going by second, second legal norms. It's going on the second tariff, it's going on the second tariff, a tariff that's kind of more interesting to lawyers, isn't it? So with this model of financing the primary which is the project and which is focused on some number of associations that actually manage to be selected in the competition and with these other terribly low rates for secondary legal aid we will not actually have secured, guaranteed what is the objective of the law, which is equal to access to justice. So when you look at the composition of the legal aid that was given in the years for which it was reported, for example, how many general legal information, how many legal advices, how many submissions you see how few there are actually representations. So you had it for 2021. 587 total representations and 531 legal assistance in the settlement which is good, therefore it is evident that the Institute of Peace is being used and that free legal assistance is being provided in this. However, it is actually terribly small on the whole of Croatia. When you look at the distribution of primary, primary legal aid, according to associations when you look at where the ones that passed the competition are, the vast majority of these associations are in Zagreb, that's the first one. Others who are not in Zagreb are the cities of Sisak, Pula, Rijeka, Osijek, Vukovar, Split, I don't know if anyone from Dubrovnik, I don't think I've seen anyone from Dubrovnik, they're all rich, not all rich in Dubrovnik, no. So I don't think I've seen anyone from Dubrovnik. And that's it for you, and that's it for you and the driver from Korenica here, they're from Korenica that's somewhat something for Lika-Senj County. So when you look at it, you have it in slightly larger cities and you don't actually have free legal aid available where we might need it the most, and it's in rural areas. What concerns me particularly, and as president of the Committee on the Environment, is the fact that, in fact, in matters relating to environmental protection, we do not have any associations that provide legal assistance on this list, nor do we have the provision of specific funding for this, and I think that this should be in Croatia's interest and that this should be in the interests of the ministry. Now I'm going to use the remaining time to say that people who fit that social category are going to have free legal aid when they put themselves in the role of whistles in the field of environmental protection and I'm going to talk about a man named Nikola Tesla. Not to the one who gave us electricity and many other benefits of the modern age but to Nikola Tesla, who is currently living on Velebit. So Nikola Tesla, who is an authorised guide in the Park of Nature Velebit, a speleologist and an intern and environmental guardian, has a house behind which the Municipality of Starigrad has built a large waste dump. He now has to pay huge court costs of 86,000 kuna for the lost court proceedings before the Zadar Municipal Court. And what happened to him? He asked for free legal assistance, he started the procedure, he first-degreed the procedure, he also got to the high court of law, he was indeed in all the agony he had been through he managed to fight for that illegal dump to end up and close. However, because of the municipality's grudge, man has received three criminal charges and he is being prosecuted for various criminal proceedings. First, he steals water because the municipality didn't provide him with water, but there's a pipe where there was a dump, so a man used to come in and pick up water and ask the municipality to charge him, they didn't charge him because they squeezed a criminal report saying he was stealing water. In addition, he was registered for work on black, and why he was registered for working on black because he taught guitars to children from a local cultural and artistic society, so here we found him to suck on his criminal application that he was working on a black illegal economic activity. So he also got a third criminal application for so-called. an attempt to blackmail and plant dangerous waste in the dump he's been arguing with the municipality, like he's putting himself in the trash. So that's how he finds citizens who are a social category, who lead the dispute in a way that they're looking for free legal aid and get it in which then the government not only blackmails you, but makes you completely bankrupt. He now has an insecure and insufferable income due to all these costs, living with his old mother. This is what happens to you when you are a whistler in the field of environmental protection, and the state has not assured you that you have free legal aid old the way, so all the way from the start of the procedure until it is over and about all the disputes that arise with it, and these disputes against him and these criminal charges have arisen directly in connection with what man whistled, which he said the municipality must not create an illegal waste disposal behind his house. This is the situation in which today's modern Nikola Tesla and Nikola Tesla of the 21st century provide help as a state, and he has done our country an excellent service because he has forced this municipal authority to shut down an illegal waste dump no less than on Velebit in the area of protection of the highest category and in the area of Nature 2000. Here, thank you. I'll get you some water.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113737	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go. It's so-called. The cycle of water in nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113738	The rounding of water in nature, then twice thanks to Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of free legal assistance should be to achieve equality between all citizens and citizens before the law, to ensure access to legal protection and equality before courts and other public bodies. It is therefore good that the system of free legal assistance is constantly being regulated and evaluated by the implementation of existing rules. In this sense, we can give criticism to ourselves about the current state of affairs, first of all, that we currently consider funding insufficient and insufficient. Free legal aid is organised projectfully with funding on an annual basis, and the Ministry of Justice publishes the results of the competition only half a year in May. Furthermore, there are significant regional derogations in the availability of legal assistance in different regions in Croatia, so some counties do not have associations or legal clinics that could provide primary legal assistance. Secondary legal assistance is becoming even more difficult and complicated. Help seekers are often convicted of seeking a lawyer, and because of overbooking and other reasons why my colleague Bencic actually spoke much more, they rarely even manage to hire lawyers. Finally, if we can make some recommendations, they would be to establish, instead of funding on an annual basis, a multi-annual financial framework as well as intensifying efforts to make free legal aid evenly available throughout the Republic of Croatia. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113739	Now, finally, on behalf of the CENTR and GLAS Club, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113740	That's exactly what I was going to ask. Is that what all the water was drinking? ... So when we talk about equality of arms, there is no equality. [[You can't hear it.]] Therefore, this entire system should be reconstructed from the ground as it should actually be reconstructed by the state after the change of HDZ. To those who have a particular legal problem, the only adequate legal aid is the one provided by lawyers who, in the case of wrongful legal advice, are therefore appropriate, so the person who got the wrong advice can also be charged and receive compensation because lawyers, unlike legal clinics and unlike various associations, pay some kind of insurance. On this side, more lawyers and all resources should be given for the work of lawyers, and lawyers should be flexible on the tariff so that they do not have to work on the social groups too high and inaccessible as prescribed by the Croatian Bar. That's step one. The second step is reform on this side too. So where the lawyer might have a little bit and too much. I'm not saying that lawyers are guilty, I'm not saying that they need to be taken from their hands, I'm not saying that there are some corrupt shops in it, but most of our state-owned companies, so the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, have their own lawyers and these lawyers are generously paying. Only one company exceeds this amount, which is allocated on an annual basis for free legal aid, and now multiply it with all state-owned companies, with all companies owned by counties, cities and municipalities and with all other public-legal bodies. Now when we talk about how to represent these other public-legal bodies, so for many of them it would be much more quality and useful not to be represented at all by lawyers. I know from practice that very often mayors and municipal commissioners asked for the help of law firms and sought counsel from a lawyer, so they got it. That's what they're looking for in order to protect themselves from possible criminal proceedings today. However, the advice they received was not in line with the interpretation given by the State’s Attorney’s Office, so they were found after the shift of authorities in unguarded grapes not always in some truly bent intention to do something illegal. What I propose is to go back to the system we once had, which is that municipalities and other public-law bodies represent the State's Attorney's Office, their civil-law departments, which means that instead of paying from public funds, lawyers are paid where public service needs to be represented, that this service is provided by the State's attorneys as already part of the public system and public service. Then the information that public authorities would have had would have been reliable, sure, would have been a greater guarantee that our politicians were not doing something illegal because it simply did not give them that system. This would also result in significant savings, and this would lead to a more equal distribution of financial resources in order to achieve better weapons equality, and to refer to the protection of whistles that have also been discussed in this debate, take apart from this example that my colleague Bencic pointed out and any other situation where, for example, a state-owned company that has unlimited financial resources to launch dozens of different procedures against its former employee who has reported corruption can do so practically with the funds that we allocate, so we finance corruption and at the same time, the whistler will not get free legal assistance because it is not in that category of social cases as these criteria are prescribed now. And we can't stay on these parameters, because there's just no gun equality. And if the Croatian Parliament is shown not only by opposition clubs, but also by other state institutions such as the attorney general, then the intention and intention of the HDZ is clear why it does not want to change anything in such a poorly designed model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113741	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113742	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end, as most of you here today have discussed, it's about a really important report, about a very important institute that we have. Free legal aid is primarily important to ensure that the protection of all citizens is equally guaranteed before the law and before the court and other public-legal bodies, and therefore I believe that this report that we are discussing today is also very important. Such a free legal aid institute as we have today has actually been brought to life by the introduction of a law that came into force in 1.1.2014 with the fact that since 2020, when public administration offices have actually taken over by the county we have in some way changed in territorial representation and institutional change in the provision of legal, free legal assistance by the county offices and the City of Zagreb Office. What is most significant is that this institute is, in fact, the most needed and should be used by those of our citizens who are socially and economically weak and that is why I believe that this institute is significant because the state needs to help them in this way. As already said, we distinguish that primary so-called. primary and secondary free legal aid. With primary legal aid, it is certainly important that there are these associations that provide this assistance and we see that the citizens' intensity is that they are largely referred to that the legal aid provided by them is the most representative in providing this primary legal assistance. As regards secondary free legal aid relating to the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative disputes or judicial proceedings, it is also very important and this is primarily about the provision of such legal assistance by lawyers representing persons who exercise the right to free legal assistance, however it is also about the release of parties which exercise this right from judicial costs and from paying court fees, which I think is very significant. The abandonment of a strict property censorship has also enabled greater access by users to secondary legal assistance, which I also think is positive. What we can see by comparing these two reports is that it's kind of a decline in demand in 2021. compared to 2020, however, these figures are not significant, but it is still possible to conclude this one trend of decline. What I would say in the end, I think it is very important in secondary legal aid that the largest number of requirements in the field of family relations, and what is also evident is that the most represented form of secondary legal aid was in the release from payment of court fees and about 39%, then representation in court proceedings 31%, and finally the release from payment of court fees somewhere 27%. It was said here that there was insufficient financial assistance to provide free legal assistance, the funds are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and what I would have found based on the facts in this report that in both of these years there was enough resources to be provided, even one part of the unused funds remained so that we cannot say that the aid was insufficiently provided by the State. Another thing we can talk about is whether lawyers are satisfied with the value of the points prescribed and whether this interest is therefore small and insufficient, but it is certain that the state budget has provided sufficient assurances. funds to provide the same and that this institute has been promoted so far [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and made more available to all citizens. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113743	That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We are done working for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the report on the use of European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes for the EU for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021. I want a nice rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 16:21 p.m. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, are now moving to a united discussion of the following two points: - Report on the implementation of the right to legal aid and spending in 2020 and - Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending in 2021. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 46. The law on free legal aid. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113746	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds, the Institute of Free Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia, was governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The Justice and Administration Ministry monitors law enforcement and is obliged to report to the government every year, and this assembly rules. The first part of the report gives an overview of the legislative and institutional framework for free legal assistance. The central part of the report provides an overview of the exercise of the right to primary and secondary legal assistance and the financing of primary and secondary legal assistance in the reporting year. The final part of the report describes the ministry's activities as the government's competent portfolio for the implementation of this law. In 2020, there was a change in the institutional framework of the system of free legal aid. On 1 January, the tasks of the state administration relating to the provision of free legal assistance are entrusted to the counties which have also taken over state officials including the presidents, directors, directors, letters and other documentation, as well as the equipment and means for the work of local government offices. The primary legal assistance shall include legal consultation of beneficiaries of legal aid and representation and written data, submissions in proceedings before public legal authorities. It is provided by authorised associations, legal clinics of the Faculty of Law and the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb. In 2020, primary legal aid was granted in 27,180 cases. Authorised associations provided 20,000 free legal aid. Legal clinics close to 2,000. The administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb some 5,300 cases. Compared to 2019, there was an increase in the number of primary legal aids by 31%. In doing so, the number of primary legal assistance was increased by authorised associations and the administrative bodies of the county and the city, the City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb. Secondary legal aid concerns the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and the exemption from the costs of judicial proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. The administrative authorities of the county received a total of 4.459 requests for the approval of secondary legal aid from which 3,016 applications were granted. Compared to 2019, a drop in the number of requests for secondary legal aid for cca 23% was reported. In view of the type of procedure, secondary legal aid was mostly granted in family relations procedures, and a total of 1,300 such cases. With regard to the forms of secondary legal aid in most cases, it was granted in the form of exemption from the payment of the court fee in 2,679 cases. The total planned financial resources for the reporting year for this institute are 4 million and 255 000 to provide primary legal assistance. The amount of 2 million and 100 grand has been paid. It funded 21 projects of authorised associations and 3 projects of law schools. It is the largest amount ever allocated for projects providing primary legal assistance, which is 9.9% higher than the amount from 2019. In order to provide secondary legal assistance, the amount of a million and 545 thousand 884 kuna was paid, which is 18.6% less than in 2019. Compared to the total amount paid for free legal aid, the payment procedure for primary legal aid is 57.71 while for secondary legal aid is 42.29%. Although it's 2020. A reduction in paid funds was paid by 4.3% less for providing free legal aid than in 2019, compared with the funds paid for secondary legal aid while a higher amount was paid for the provision of primary legal aid than in 2019. Also, the second year in a row more funds are paid to provide primary legal assistance than secondary legal aid. Something shorter without these general parts for 2021. So primary legal aid in 2021. In 24.950 cases, authorised associations provided 19,000, 1,890 clinics, and the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb 4.224 cases. Therefore, the total financial resources planned for this reporting year are at 4.140 thousand, for providing primary legal aid a million and 985 kuna were paid for secondary legal aid, a million and 935 kuna were paid for 25% more than in 2020, so 3 million and 920 thousand kuna were paid for free legal aid granted. The share of funds paid for primary legal aid is 50%, 50.3 while for secondary legal aid is 49.37%. That's the gentlemen I needed to introduce you to, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113747	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113748	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State, you've already mentioned the information when we've been compatriated these two years. 2020 and '21, respectively. that's in '21. In fact, there has been a decrease when we talk about primary legal aid of around 8%, but whether or not you have some knowledge or are in the ministry... which were the reasons, we know that both years were actually a cornerstone of the year when they were and the difficult conditions for sure work, but have you, have you thought about whether or not you know the reasons for the fall and whether you can say a few more words, so this law regulates free legal assistance, you said yourself primary, secondary to family legal procedures, executive procedures, consumer bankruptcy etc., but there are other positive regulations that actually cover some other forms if we can thus say legal aid where our citizens also have the possibility of having secured legal protection without paying anything, so if you can say a few words about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113749	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113750	Thank you very much. So the Institute of Legal Assistance goes after this, so the legal order wants to enable the most vulnerable groups of society to address the courts, so they ensure that courts and those who are not able to pay out of their own resources lawyers to provide legal assistance in their own, in their procedures that lead to administrative, litigation or any other procedure, so this substance here regulates administrative and litigation procedures primarily. Of course, this report and this law do not cover a large group that receives free legal aid and other exemptions through criminal proceedings. We also changed some institutes last year, the truth because of the European directives, and we have extended the segment very much, so we have lowered the possibility of hiring a lawyer on the cost of the state and on the police level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113751	Thank you. Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113752	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here you have also pointed out that the purpose of free legal assistance is to achieve equality all before the law, to achieve legal protection, and to access the court and other public bodies on equal terms. We have primary and secondary legal assistance, I will look back at the primary which was provided in 24.950 cases during 2021, the highest part of which was carried out by some 19,000 authorised associations, then the legal clinic about 1,900 cases, and the administrative bodies of the city, the City of Zagreb and the county around 4,400 cases. So we have 23 authorised associations in Croatia in '21. and they have done most of the legal aid work, are citizens more seeking assistance from associations, is that intention or are citizens simply more familiar with work, the work of associations than that of legal aid can also be obtained with administrative authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113753	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113754	Thank you. So it's hard for me to tell which are the reasons that more people are talking to associations, it's really if you were talking you could speculate, but the state through these 4 ccs. 4 million kunas finance these associations precisely with the intention of providing this primary legal protection or primary legal assistance, they advise them and they write submissions to them in certain court proceedings, and where this secondary legal aid is required, these people also address the counties and get lawyers to provide free legal assistance. I find it difficult to answer reliably what are the reasons that more people are talking, coming on, to associations and getting that legal aid, but all of this is financed by taxpayers' funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113755	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113756	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, when we talk about secondary legal aid after the user submits, after the applicant submits a request, the competent authority should adopt a solution within 15 days, and if that solution is negative or if the party is not satisfied with it, it shall have the right to file a complaint which must also be answered within the time limit, and there is the possibility of an investment in the action. However, I wonder if complaints are resolved within the time limit prescribed, I think it is extremely important for the parties, so here in this segment I am interested in the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113757	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113758	The honourable MPs, therefore, were also on boards having problems, and the situation where the Ministry of Justice and the Administration did not respond, so in all cases spotlessly and sometimes timelyly, what is this all about? So, it's about unsettled bases potentially, because we must therefore reliably determine the social justification of such a social reaction. So, in criminal law last year, we introduced a preliminary permit to represent him in such a way as to preliminarily, so if in the course of the proceedings, the reasons for his failure would have to be returned. It's a complicated mechanism, but it's probably going to have to be organized like that in this construction segment, so it's starting with everyone who's being turned to, so if it's not true that we have to commit it to the return of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113759	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113760	Thank you. In addition to your finding that free legal aid is served by taxpayers' funds, I will point to one other side which is also financed by taxpayers' funds, these are the bodies of public authorities. For example, state-owned companies and municipal city companies are very often the target whistlers or whistles suggest irregularities that occur in these public legal entities. On one such company, state and city lawyers pay their lawyers by public means, and so on and in lawsuits against whistlers, on the other hand, whistlers must pay their lawyers with their own money, and very often in a situation where they are out of a job. There you did not make any step, you did not provide the whistles with secondary legal aid at the expense of taxpayers' funds and there the rule of law test completely fell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113761	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113762	Dear colleagues. So, you're a colleague and you're a colleague and you're a lawyer, so you know that this is a social category and, of course, it's everywhere where whistlers would come into that category of state would respond as adequately to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113763	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As you have also heard from the Committee on Justice and the Ombudsman's report, there has been a complaint that, in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County due to the earthquake, the need for increased primary legal assistance, and I was wondering whether you would do something on the financial side, and then organisationally, given that this is a general and poor population, that this primary right of assistance in this area is in some way strengthened in view of the forest patterns needed and of the legal regulations that property regulations to address these problems in order to actually strengthen primary legal assistance in these areas that are damaged in the Sisak-Moslavina County earthquake?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113765	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113766	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I appreciate that sensitivity, we're all sensitive to this situation in Banovina, and here I am, by chance, a member of that task force to remove these damages with Vice President Medved and Milosevic and a series of state secretaries there, so the state administration is completely open to these people. We've already shut down all the patterns at the very beginning, so the state administration appears here in full terms as a service to these people, only possible that there are some noises in communication. So, from the very beginning, they should have submitted to these demands only data on themselves, real estate and therefore, in the gross plan, everything else the state administration had to do through various bases. We were going so far that the car went mobile with people through those rural parts to people and there on the spot filled out patterns with them. Here's what I'm expecting... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113767	Thank you. Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113768	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course, I will talk more specifically about this problem in my own presentation, but what I particularly want to point out and ask you, is it your priority and how do you think about people and families who have no citizenship, or are foreigners with unregulated status in the Republic for many years or even decades, which are primarily for social reasons? That's what I'm asking you because a lot of people come to me or it's about people who are some kind of legal vacuum because of lack of funds to exercise the right to stay or citizenship in the Republic of Croatia under regular procedures. Do you have any plan on how to meet them more, given that they are in an invisible position, while at the same time creating a problem for us because their status hasn't changed for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113769	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113770	Your Honor. Therefore, this law does not exclude the provision of legal assistance to both species and foreign citizens, to people without citizenship who are in need in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, the thing is that maybe certain associations that deal with this little bit more lit up with them and that they can unquestionably participate in these funds, so they are in the same position as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113771	Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113772	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. One of the main concerns of the free legal aid provider most often pointed out is the financing of course. Except as they claim, besides being small amounts, they are both ineligible or come late. Is there anything you can tell us if in 2020 and 2021 we are discussing today whether the situation has changed in this regard or whether this payment has changed for free legal aid providers now rather than it was in 2019?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113773	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113774	Well, I don't deal with it, they don't pay at the Department of Justice and the Department of Money, but from this report it's obvious that both of these reporting years had more at the position of the planned funds than was spent, so I don't see any reason to be late except technical reasons, I think it's a solution. So, in both of these years, we had more planned funds for this institute than we had spent than the associations and others have invoiced for free legal aid. So if there are any problems they are really technical not essential and we can easily remove them both with your help and tell us where they are late, so when we have the means when the service is done there's no reason not to pay them spotlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113775	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113776	Dear Secretary of State, here's my question on the secondary aid issue. We see that, in fact, in secondary aid or party representation that actually the numbers we see in the report certainly do not correspond to what needs are on the ground, and also among social groups, and that for years there has been a problem that lawyers don't really want to work for the benefits that the state has set. What do you think you should do about this, and do you intend to increase these fees to make secondary legal aid available in all parts of the country? The second question is, we have the legal assistance of the primary very poor geographically distributed. So we have parts of the country in which it is not available or is unequally available. It is primarily because the funds are awarded through competitions and primary legal aid is mainly done by associations and where they are not available or where they fail to pass the competition we do not actually have the primary legal aid available and these are very often the very parts of the country where they may need it the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113777	The Honorable Secretary of State will give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113778	Thank you, Your Honor. So I agree with you that things can always be better. That we can organize better, that we can be in that service to the citizens more accessible, but we are where we are. So here's what we have, let's not use the funds, so there's no excessive activity on the other side of that non-governmental sector, which, if it were proactive, would raise funds. As for this part of secondary legal aid granted exclusively by lawyers, I think it's a shame that this report or that things are not so well-conceived to see this criminal legal segment as well. He's of course I'm sure a dozen times bigger, so there are more services provided by lawyers through a criminal legal sphere than through a civil administration. So, first of all, the chamber has a high social sensitivity and they themselves receive parties of a socially lower standard and provide them with assistance. The state does that when it appoints lawyers under official duty and for how it is a poor right. So, and we expanded that glue when we put it down, it's no longer in the courts but even the police procedure in the field of reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113779	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113780	The esteemed State Secretary from the Ombudsman's report states that the funds allocated for free legal aid are insufficient and I am curious whether you are planning to increase these funds in the future, given that the number of groups that need it is growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113781	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113782	So what I'm going to say is, I just said a little while ago, so it's hard for me to exaggerate now and claim that she's wrong, but if we have two years left with the funds on the items that don't spend it saying something. It's not a problem, so it's not a big asset, it's 4 million of course it can be raised to society, it wouldn't hurt anyone anywhere, and if it were to rise to 8 million. Of course, this should be used in an adequate and beneficial way for these people, and it is not the point of sharing it with associations that will not then reach the last man who expects an adequate response in a situation where they need legal help.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113783	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113784	Dear Secretary of State, my question concerns the Committee for Free Legal Assistance. Tell us in whose jurisdiction this commission is operating. They have a minimum legal provision three times a year to meet, so I wonder how many times they met last year and before last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113785	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113786	I don't carry that information in your head, so how many times have they met? The Justice and Administration Ministry is the government's portfolio responsible for the implementation of this law, which prepares this report for the government, and the government submits it to you. So, how many times have they met and made decisions, if not in the report, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113787	Thank you very much. Let's go, let's move on to the debate. First, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, is not there, is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113788	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, how often it is in my case in this debate I will deal with groups of citizens who are among the most vulnerable in our society. The topic dealing with these two reports may not be something that is very interesting to the general public, but because of its context and meaning, it is very important for some of our fellow citizens but also for foreigners who need it. The social situation and social status of users of this type of aid also include a part of my compatriots members of the Roma national minority. Among them, the majority of the requirements relate to learning about certain rights or to the consumption of certain rights which can be achieved, or status issues concerning citizenship and obtaining documentation. personal documents. It is particularly worrying that many such persons have lived in Croatia for many years and decades, but they still have not succeeded in gaining citizenship and cannot consume any basic rights such as free healthcare. Of course, conditions for obtaining citizenship do not generally arrive in due time because they do not generally have financial opportunities to regulate health care and other needs. However, it is about persons who are basically permanently inhabited, familyly connected, and the like. What should be pointed out is that the Roma from Croatia do not have these problems contrary to the applicable opinion because Roma in Croatia are an indigenous national minority here for centuries and are those who have no regulated status of exception, not a rule. When I talk about this, I remind you that Croatia as a state party is two basic instruments on without citizenship of the 1954 Convention and the 1961 Convention. Limited data on people without citizenship are only available in Croatia, but the figures are mostly outdated or misjudged so that we cannot determine with certainty the exact number of persons in that status. In Croatian laws, there is a definition of a stateless person, but there is no special procedure for determining without citizenship and granting adequate protection of persons without citizenship according to the 1954 Convention, without citizenship can be... and can be assessed on a hop basis in other procedures, but on the basis of no citizenship, there is no right other than a travel document and in Croatia there is no easier way to naturalise people without citizenship which should be considered a little better in the context of the persons I mentioned, which are permanently family and in other ways for years or decades related to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there are limited safeguards for the provision of arbitrary arrests of stateless persons, but NGOs report widespread detention at the border without appropriate legal proceedings or individual assessments. In Croatian laws, there are certain protection measures to prevent and reduce the occurrence without citizenship, but there are significant derogations and they do not comply with the standards set out in the 1961 Convention as indicated by associations involved. Associations which are primarily engaged are unfortunately lacking financial resources and personnel, or are done to people who are willing to do so willingly, but who do not make a profit which is certainly commendable, but who need to be given more space for their voice to be heard exclusively. Although there is partial protection to prevent citizenship for children born without citizenship in Croatia in practice there are various problems. I will take the opportunity on my behalf and on behalf of everyone who helped thank the people and associations who provide such a kind of assistance, the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara cooperates with one such association of the PGP from Sisak. During the last year, 877 legal advice was received in various legal areas in the framework of providing free right of assistance in that period of 458 users. The topic consists of 180 submissions, 118 documents were produced, cross-border and within the country and 290 cases were successfully completed. These statistics identify 255 Roma, most of them face the problem of unresolved status in the Republic of Croatia and obtaining personal documents, among them 80 people have problems without citizenship or are at risk of losing their citizenship. The association worked in 40 cases of temporary stay, in 14 permanent stay cases and 14 citizenship cases while the other cases are closely related to the settlement of status issues. In 2021. The PGP did not record positively completed cases of citizenship. This is precisely the reason why legislation prevents parties from exercising further rights once they regulate temporary stay. Due to the enormous amounts of health insurance that the party is to pre-iumate debts on this basis as well as means of maintenance by a member of a family that most parties do not have, in some cases, have been experiencing for more than 10 years. I believe that such a situation is unsustainable for people in that status and therefore I appeal to the competent authorities to launch a dialogue on the Law on Citizenship or how to prevent the current situation from having dozens of even hundreds of people in our country who, for social reasons, are found in for them with an unembarkable legal vacuum and for more than a decade. I also appeal this way to find a framework for adequate... the help of the state associations dealing with these issues because the annual amounts so far do not cover any cold drive and one salary of a graduate lawyer, which is certainly a minimum which would give such associations the basis to find other sources of funding on their own, and I believe that their contribution to institutions and individuals and the general role in society and in any way justifies it. It is not necessary to forget the role of legal assistance associations and citizens in the earthquake affected areas in the process of achieving the rights related to this disaster. In addition to other crises, the final situation in Ukraine requires enhanced work of free legal aid providers in order to provide comprehensive legal assistance to refugees from Ukraine, starting with the regulation of status, education of labour rights and others related to the nosetriification of documents, applications, complaints, correspondence, requirements, etc. All the above only further strengthens the need for free legal assistance because the need for socially endangered citizens in the Republic of Croatia especially members of national minorities, among which I particularly point out Roma who do not have adequately resolved status in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the right to exercise other human and civil rights such as: from the social care system, unfortunately there is and is growing because of the economic and moral crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113789	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Vesna Nadj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113790	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, we have a report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance for 2020 and also a report for 2021. If the ruling declares themselves to rule of law and access to justice of all citizens regardless of income and property price, then, as the Law on Free Legal Assistance and requires in Article 46 of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the right to free legal aid by 30 April each year, not in July 2021 for 2020, and that the Croatian Parliament discusses a report on the right to free legal aid without delay. But it is obvious that the debate between the rulings on the right to free legal assistance was the last hole in the play, so these two reports were too much of ours in the package during the debate, since the remarks from the previous parliamentary debate or the remarks of the Ombudsman's mother-in-law were not seen as something that should be reacted to and improved the system. Here we are talking about the achievement of the fundamental principle of rule of law, the approach to justice and the equality of all citizens before law and public law. These paths of access to justice must be transitory for all citizens and must not be entrenched by obstacles to the financial nature for which certain categories of citizens cannot exercise their human right of access to justice. And what categories of citizens are these? It is more than a fifth of the population in the Republic of Croatia who are at risk of poverty, it is the third of the people in the Republic of Croatia who are barely joining the end. When we add Covid to this the crisis and earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina County and Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje, Karlovo County, then it is clear that there was a need to significantly increase the budget resources for free legal aid and create conditions for these funds and dedicated spending. In addition to the provision of budgetary resources, an effective system of free legal assistance was needed to provide practical, efficient and timely legal assistance to citizens in need, not to allow citizens, not to complain that the requirements for the achievement of free legal assistance are so complex that they need to be helped in filling them. And is this system effective and adequate for the needs of citizens? The primary legal assistance provided by authorised providers, associations, legal clinics and administrative departments in the counties shall include legal advice, submissions and representation to public authorities, the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations, and legal assistance in non-judicial dispute resolutions. The secondary legal assistance with legal representation with legal representation in the legally defined legal areas also includes the exemption from the costs of judicial proceedings and of the skills and the exemption from the payment of court fees. Property conditions for the achievement of secondary aid mean that the total income of applicants and members of their household do not pass monthly according to the household member the amount of the budget base, which is 3.326 kuna and that the total value of the assets does not exceed 60 budget bases and 199.560 kuna respectively. Compared to 2020, when the primary legal aid was granted in a total of 27,187 89 cases in 2021, there was a reduction in the number of primary legal aid provided by 8.23%, while the reduced number of primary legal aid was recorded by the administrative authorities of the county and the City Office for General Administration and Property Legal Affairs in the City of Zagreb by 21.27% and the authorised association by 4.19%. On the other hand, the legal clinic recorded an increase in the number of primary legal aids by 5.79%. Unlike 2020, when the most used primary legal aid in the form of general legal information is 45.42%. In 2021, primary legal aid in the form of legal advice was used in 49.41%. As compared to 2020, when a total of 4.459 requests for secondary legal aid were submitted in 2021, a drop in the number of requests for secondary legal aid was recorded by 10.05%. As in 2020 and 2021, secondary legal aid was most often granted in family relations procedures and more than half of the cases. In 2021 as well as in 2020, the most frequently used form of secondary legal aid was the release from payment of court fees in 39.19 cases. After that, there is a representation in court proceedings of 31.06% of cases, and a release from paying the costs of court proceedings at 26.8%. Most of the use of secondary legal aid was female, the beneficiary of secondary legal assistance was female, as in 2020 and in 2021 more than 65%. The funds for the organisation of the system and the provision of free legal assistance shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2021 and projections for '22. and '23. They're secured, actually they've planned 4 million kunas. With funds to provide primary legal assistance in the amount of a million 885 thousand kuna and funds to provide a secondary 2 million 155 thousand. Out of the total funds planned for organising and providing free legal assistance for the provision of primary legal aid, the amount was paid is less than the planned amount of a million 985 thousand, and for providing secondary legal assistance to millions of 935 thousand 807, totaling 3 million 920 thousand 807 kuna. So it wasn't even this small of a plan for secondary legal aid that failed to be spent. The third year in a row more funds are paid to provide primary legal assistance than to provide secondary aid. A public tender for the financing of projects of authorised associations and legal clinics for the provision of primary legal assistance in 2021 was published on the Ministry's website already on 29 January 2021, but only 25 May 2021 was the decision to grant funding to 23 projects of authorised associations and law schools for legal clinics to provide primary legal assistance from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. So, 4 months after what was announced the tender was, the financial resources were realised. It is therefore unacceptable to leave the association and legal clinic without funding projects for 4 months. In addition, the amount of a million 985 000 to be provided to authorised associations and legal clinics for projects providing primary legal assistance is therefore 5.9% lower than the total amount in 2020. and therefore one project less than 23 projects compared to 24 projects 2020. The compensation for the provision of secondary legal assistance provided by lawyers for certain legal actions and certain types of proceedings shall be determined in points, i.e. the value of the points shall be determined in the amount of seven kunas, which is obviously demotivating to hire a lawyer because it is lower compensation for regular legal services than regular legal services which is 10 kuna. When we add that in some islands and other isolated areas listed by the Ombudsman, the list of lawyers providing secondary legal assistance is not very good. The Ombudsman also stated in this 2021 report that the complaints made during 2021 were. Most of these were related to the long-term resolution of complaints, solutions in free legal aid, despite recommendations made by the Ministry of Justice and Administration in the 2020 report. The appeal proceedings continue to take an extremely long time, which is contrary to the provision of the Article. 17. The law on free legal aid prescribed by the Ministry of Justice and the Board of Appeal shall decide no later than eight days from the receipt of an orderly appeal, while, according to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, that deadline is even sometimes more than three years inadmissible. The Ombudsman also states in the report that since the outbreak of the epidemic, it has received more and more requests from citizens for legal assistance in the form of consultation, submissions, etc. and in order to inform citizens of the conditions and method of realization of free legal assistance except through the Justice and Administration and Administrative Authorities' websites in the county should be systematically implemented, for example through media, posters or distribution of leaflets to public authorities and in other ways available to as many citizens as possible. The Ombudsman also stated that the budgetary resources for the system of free legal aid are not sufficient to ensure the continued work of authorised providers, associations and legal clinics which at the same time cannot apply for tenders from other state bodies, since the system of free legal aid is exclusively financed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the unit of local, regional and regional self-government. However, a large number of local, regional district self-government units cannot finance free legal aid because they do not have sufficient resources. Citizens often address associations because they are in direct contact with citizens, often act on the ground and have direct insight into their daily needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113791	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113792	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113793	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDSS, and a respected representative of Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113794	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. So, at first we could say that we have a dry statistical data set in the form of reports for the previous period, but I think we are talking about one important topic today because we are talking about two reports on providing free legal assistance for 2020 and '21. And it's a shame that in the '20s report. We haven't said anything before, but maybe this gives us a chance to make a comparison. A comprehensive system of legal aid has been established for persons who are particularly vulnerable to property in resolving their existential issues, which is important because they prevent expensive court proceedings and protect citizens' rights. Not many people who find themselves in a difficult life situation see free legal aid as primary or secondary as the only way out and as a guarantee of such procedural equality of arms. The earthquake affected areas are evidence of the importance of free legal aid or evidence of the importance of free legal aid because it is known that the precondition for the initiation of the renewal procedure is the arrangement of property law relations in the property for which the application for which the truth does not satisfy a large number of properties in the earthquake affected areas, so additional legal procedures had to be initiated. Therefore, it was necessary for the population in the area to provide timely and comprehensive advisory legal assistance on which the respected secretary of state had said something, but it is an opportunity to say that it was just such a comprehensive advisory and timely and comprehensively providing the Serbian National Council through its legal department that was very up-to-date on the ground. And when it comes to this report, the first part until we get to the statistical actually from year to year identical to the crown figures was expected to be less, however, free legal aid was granted on the contrary, especially in a significantly larger number compared to 2020 and 2021, even 31.48% compared to the aid granted in 2020 compared to 2019. We heard that citizens for free legal aid most often address associations, it's kind of very clear to me and why, they're simply associations are in direct contact with citizens, they work in the field, they have direct insight into everyday needs, and it's visible from this report that even 80% in 80% of cases of free legal assistance provide associations, slightly less administrative departments in the county. The increase in the number of primary legal aid granted in 2020 was unfortunately not followed by an increase in financial resources, but was somewhat reduced in 2021. It is, of course, something that does not serve us honor. So to be clear, maximum amount of fees to lawyers for free legal aid, and office and directorial costs, when that amount is allocated to 12 months, it is evident that, at best, the monthly amounts available to the association and the legal clinic for the provision of free legal aid amounting to a lot of miserable 7000 916 kuna. That is why I will point out for years what we have been saying for free legal aid is not enough to ensure the continued work of authorised providers who at the same time cannot apply to competitions from other state bodies, since the system of free legal aid is exclusively financed by the competent ministry, and the unit of local and regional self-government. And there is an additional problem, which the distinguished colleague said something about, but not to mention that more JLS is not able to finance legal aid providers, so then I get the question and bring these people less developed areas into a more unfavourable position than others. In my replica, I said something about funding, I don't know if I've been taken the right way, so I'll explain it in detail. The problem of the technical nature provided by legal aid providers very often in contacts points out, which is that through the system of free legal aid the payment of funds is as we heard insufficient, and on the accounts of the provider of free legal aid is realised in general during the 5th and 6th months, it is of course not seen in this report, but we must believe what people provide free legal assistance. They complain that they remain without the means to work during most of the year and their work is monitored by uncertainty and uncertainty, some of the associations have therefore had to close the doors of their offices and base themselves mainly or be based on a voluntary basis and I am thinking and here I call on it to consider perhaps that such situations should be prevented by means of the multiannual funding of the free legal assistance programme. It's just a matter of thinking about it as a possibility. One of the problems is certainly the long-term long-term resolution of the appeal for a solution to free legal aid, and there is a lawyer in part of her report on free legal aid, stating that in one case, the person who filed an appeal for a solution in the 8th month 2017, after which, neither after 3rd g. No response received. Furthermore, the county offices are unable to quickly process the submitted requirements, and the parties have a short deadline to invest legal medicines. The most obvious example is the person who reported to the Serbian National Council just mentioned, who was given an extraordinary resignation and on whom she had the right to appeal for 15 days or 15 days for a response and was given a solution only after 3 months, which means that she has two options left or that she defends herself or pays for a lawyer's service. The possible problem is that the right to free legal aid has primarily citizens, as well as permanent residents, while the temporary stay related to reciprocity is linked to the reciprocity of the state of which it is a citizen. Some associations have cited a significant number of parties, returnees of foreigners, who have been tortured for years with the right to permanent stay from year to year, and it is difficult to exercise the right to free legal assistance. With regard to the visibility of free legal aid, they may also need to pay additional attention to this and, therefore, through the website and the Ministry and the county departments, they should somehow systematically through the media, free legal assistance and promotion. It is evident from all of this that free legal aid definitely has certain problems, especially when it comes to financing, but nevertheless it contributes to the achievement of the initial objective, which is to improve the legal position of users of free legal aid. In addition to suggestions that are well-intentioned, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the report for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113795	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the honourable representative Michel Jaksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113796	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, once again a good day to all. This is a topic and a report that certainly does not create such an attraction in the media area as when we discuss constitutional court, the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the police director's report or when we choose new leaders and leaders of those bodies because somehow it always turns out that they are much more important topics and of course they are very important, but free legal aid always goes somewhere under the radar and very little is discussed and considered and presented all that it contains in itself and all that it should bring to our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. What I think is very important to highlight when we talk about free legal aid to the tool most often sought by citizens who are socially vulnerable, socially sensitive and who often turn to free legal aid because they simply have no means, neither the ability nor the power to protect their interests in any other way, or in many situations to protect and preserve their own existence. I know about this subject since Koprivnica as a city has free legal assistance and a legal clinic in city hall areas and, of course, often in the hallway you meet all those people who are waiting, you hear the problems they have and what's most frantic, you get to know yourself firsthand in many situations, especially those who are socially endangered and bring the system itself or make the law stronger by using that someone is not legally subdued enough or that there is simply not enough financial and other capacity to fight some legal struggles where often unfortunately, at the end of the day, injustice prevails. What is a fundamental observation in front of the SDP Club and what we want to draw public attention to is that today we are discussing reports for 2020 and 2021 it is certain that if we combine two years into 2022 that this is not the best indicator and the best step to tell people that this is an important field for us and that we want to develop this field. But it goes on hand and the official promoter goes unfortunately and by hand, on hand goes, on hand and on hand to all of us sitting here in the assembly and definitely that's the crime of all of us. I would like to apostrophe that the ministry is deliberately, so it can be read, does not provide information on the number of complaints made by the parties to the first-degree solutions of the administrative bodies of the county and the City of Zagreb, which was formerly the office of the state administration. So the question of all the questions is why we can't see and hear how many complaints and why they're filed. We also have no data on the number of administrative disputes against secondary solutions to ministries. A legitimate question why are we running away from those numbers? What may be even more interesting in this debate, because over the past few weeks we have debated a lot about the Constitutional Court both in this and that way, and we are calling upon the Constitutional Court for a time, and then we are not referring to the Constitutional Court, and then we say that we are waiting for some political conclusion within the party to accept what the Constitutional Court says. On 8 September 2021, the Constitutional Court decided to order the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to take second-degree solutions against the 2018 appeals. So, in 2018, it's 2022 today with all the parties and the appropriate cash compensation due to the length of the proceedings and here we come to that extreme absurd because the chief of all these officers, this is not now the Supreme Court, it's the DORH, it's the police, it's our fault, it's the universe. The head of all those officials who decide in the ministry against complaints is exactly a resolute minister, which means that perhaps the principle ministry has consciously placed the parties in a position exactly like this where the Constitutional Court eventually intervened. The deadline for a solution to the appeal is 8 days from the receipt. The Constitutional Court found that we have cases from 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021. And again, I'm going to say what I said at the very beginning, it's about the most socially endangered people. What we would still like to draw attention to in that formal section that the report contains data on the financing of free legal aid, but we do not need data on the funds returned to the budget for exactly the legal reasons listed, as well as on the possible interest payments paid. The same approved requirements for the use of secondary legal aid as we have accurately summed up do not correspond to the sum of the procedures on pages 37 to 42 and pages 11 to 16. And certainly this is today's debate on the report, we would like to stress that I am still a lack of data in terms of a large number of data that should be solved by first-degree officials, which should be obtained by making decisions on the approval of free legal aid itself, which, on the one hand, slows down the procedure because let's face the question of whether those who decide in that first-degree have sufficient legal knowledge for that, all of which are still not clear to some concepts or official persons, and we still had them in the law. And if it's not clear to the official, we have it in the law, the question is, how should it be clear to all these parties who come for free legal aid, and I repeat for the third time most often it's about people with social problems. Because we do not continue to comply with specific laws, for example, they can state the Social Care Act, maintenance aid, guaranteed minimum compensation, as well as the Law on Croatian defenders and the concept of supply, and, of course, when we engage people who decide on that first degree and people who come with their problems to create an entire forest where no one can eventually meet and then come to all these complaints in 2017, '18, '19, '20, '21, '22, intervention of the Constitutional Court, not solving, standing and just prolonging the social gap which is a pity because it is a law that should be very noble, something very righteous and protects those who are most often weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113797	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113798	Thank you. One of the colleagues who had previously spoken who was no longer in the assembly referred to the number of registered speakers, and the fact is that we are discussing this in late afternoon terms, so he concluded that this is obviously not a topic of some of the top interests of the general public. And I just think that this is quite a topic that should be a topic of the top interest and the general public, especially those that think that Croatian society is deeply devoured and soaked by injustice and corruption. And very often our citizens believe that the injustice they feel on their skin stems from the corruption of the entire system and then say that some reform of the judiciary should start from cleaning away from corrupt judicial and other judicial personnel. I am not running away from the fact that in any case it is necessary to cleanse the system from those who do not belong in that system, but I claim that what citizens feel as injustice, and very often they do not know how to express it, they do not know where it actually comes from, comes from that they are not able to exercise their rights in courts and not only because they are disabled because, for example, they are not all in a field where a court or some sort of facility would be at their disposal or not having the means to physically reach that court but under the inability of access to justice or even the system of exercising their own rights stems from the fact that they do not have the financial means to pay for someone who could actually help them to comply with legal regulations. And that is why this institute of free legal aid should actually be served, so that all those whose social situation is such that legal aid cannot be obtained from a lawyer who will in some way be paid by the state to provide an adequate replacement. In replicas, the ministry's representative asked the question of how he was going to react to complaints from the attorney general that the funds were not enough, and then it was responsible that the report actually shows that one part of the funds and returns or is not being spent. However, this must not lead us to the wrong conclusion that the funds have neither enough to be spent properly. Unfortunately, we can't even know at this point whether the 3.5 to 4 million kuna is properly spent because this report doesn't say anything about it. It speaks statistically of funds being allocated between legal clinic associations and lawyers providing secondary legal assistance, however, nothing about their quality and nothing about their content. As for the Commission for Free Legal Assistance, which is drawn up as some strange beak from the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, so the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Bars, and the representatives of the Law Schools and the authorised associations, we don't even know if they have met at all, let alone whether they have analysed those reports that provide free legal assistance to the Ministry, the Ministry of Government, the Government Assembly, we have no key information at all. So I will now say something on the basis of my own life experience, legal and legal experience, and I must immediately mention that I am a former lawyer and intend to return to law after this term I would not like anyone to think that I am here now defending the interests of financial, interest of my own branch and attacking associations, thus making it more legal to defend some of them who have acquired and the reputation and trust of the public in their work so far, however, I believe that the system of free legal assistance as it is now set to be fully changed, therefore redesigning the architecture itself and that the reform of the judiciary is just beginning here. I am here to say that when organizations provide free legal assistance, this primary in terms of the first information, no one checks the first advice in terms of the actual quality of their legal knowledge, and we cannot know whether that first initial conversation or legal advice was such that the recipient or the user of that service was of any help and purpose. It seems to me that there would be wherever and where more high quality to allow all socially vulnerable groups to be paid by a lawyer who will be paid out of the state budget because it is the only professional guarantee enough, and it is also the only people who have the responsibility, the responsibility for providing advice that legal clinics and associations do not have, and that is the only right guarantee that someone who really needs protection that protection will be able to obtain it in the way that they can achieve it or have the one who has their own financial resources. If we don't secure it then we've failed in that basic goal, which is the equality of weapons and equal access to everyone independent of their property. And when we talk about how this secondary legal aid is currently granted, we see that this system does not, in that organisational sense, do what it should do. Imagine now that you need, for example, a lawyer who will draw up some kind of appeal, a period of eight days for your appeal, your office of the state administration refuses to grant you, unfounded refusal to provide secondary legal assistance, you have a 15-day deadline to appeal to the Ministry of Justice, but within that time, you have already had the opportunity to exercise your right. And if the ministry doesn't even correct its mistake, so the deadline has already passed, but even after the deadline, the ministry doesn't make a decision as it should and that the administrative dispute that has been decided for several years, I ask you what is wrong with the legal problem of the person who addressed the state for help? She's just gone. And then we come up with a third thing that I don't think anyone's thinking about, which is what the state actually finances and how. Namely, the Croatian public service is a very networked and numerically exaggerated service, from an excessive number of cities, counties and municipalities to over a thousand public companies, and then various other public bodies. On the aside that perhaps some of the public authorities listed as such in the Register of the Information Commissioner may not have to be, for example, private kindergartens, but the fact that there are 6,000 thousand. When we talk about these very budget users more or less, they all have some of their own lawyers who pay. When we talk about state-owned companies, I'm sure some of them, on an annual basis, pay lawyers who repeatedly exceed this amount that the state has allocated for free legal aid. Let us only remember those years when during the former government in the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb spent 8 million kuna on lawyers, so that is when the system goes against citizens, and all the poor and financially disbursed citizens when they need help from the state to finance their legal advice get more than in half less than 4 million kunas, respectively. As long as the system is like that, we can't talk about gun equality, it just doesn't exist. Therefore, the system should be reconstructed in a way that, in place of a legal clinic, by providing free legal assistance to lawyers only, lawyers should be assigned as they are assigned to the criminal cases of the HOK in accordance with those who have applied for that tender, and associations may possibly have their own specialized subjects, for example, the whistle protection association will be involved in the protection of whistles, the Association for the Protection of Women from Violence will deal with this topic, but in that sense, when a specific victim or a specific, specific natural or legal person needs assistance then will be given by a lawyer who may be working with that association. However, in order for these structural reforms to have a goal, they have the right purpose and in order to achieve their goal, a whole series of other topics must be reformed, among other things, and the tariffs of the lawyers themselves must be further liberalised, not as fixed as it is now in such a way that individual lawyers can give up their high fees themselves for the benefit of some socially vulnerable groups and the state should allow them such contracts, not that they themselves are illegally doing some of their dumping prices because they want to be socially and socially responsible, and believe me, there are also such cases in practice. As long as we don't have this, we'll have this dry report that'll just say how much money we've spent or haven't, and those who need legal help can't come to that legal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113799	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative Damir Habian will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113800	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So we are discussing together these two reports for 2020. And 2021. What I have actually asked in my replica and the Secretary of State, so this report includes the actual implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, therefore in civil and administrative proceedings, but I also think it is important to reiterate once again that all those citizens who are unfortunately in such a situation are provided of course and legal assistance in criminal proceedings where we know that they are therefore granted at the request of defenders under official duty. At first, I think that what the Secretary of State said is therefore the Institute of Free Legal Assistance as an instrument that ensures equality between all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia before the law or some lever that serves as an insurance for citizens to achieve legal protection, of course access to court and other public bodies on equal terms. The introduction was, of course, said what may not have been said again, so I also have a feeling that maybe citizens in this country are not really familiar enough to know that there are actually these two kinds of legal aids, so this primary legal aid and secondary assistance and what is actually the difference in it and who to address in the case of a specific or general person, when you are looking for some general legal advice or if you are looking for protection from a court or looking for protection in a working legal procedure, so, for example, in which cases it is a lawyer or it is an association of those who have passed in a public competition. As far as these reports are concerned, there have been some objections that we can discuss together today in the '20s. And in '21, although I don't think it's even bad, I think we can actually compromise the changes that took place in '20 in relation to '21, no matter what the years are actually about, and one and another of these periods of the pandemic, which is why my question to the secretary of state was the reason for this reduction in the number of requirements regarding primary legal aid, whether it is, but probably since one and another year covered by the pandemic was not a covid crisis, whether an analysis was made within the ministry when this report was being carried out. So, we have already heard, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, authorised providers of therefore free legal aid with which associations are those associations which are, of course, registered as legal aid providers are high schools that carry out university studies in the scientific field of law through legal clinics. I think it is actually very good in practice, I can say, for example, in the town of Varazdin where, indeed, almost on a month or twice a month, they are doing such a thing, i.e. giving citizens the opportunity to provide services through these legal clinics, and, of course, the administrative bodies of the county, or the City of Zagreb, in which the work is done on the part of the occasional affairs of the state administration relating to the provision of legal assistance. What I said, so compared to 2020. when we had in primary legal protection 27,180 cases, so in '21. There has been a slight decline, so of 8% of 24.950 requests for legal, primary legal aid and what I said might be good for the future, since this report will cover 2022. to make an analysis or to then be combined and to determine why there is either growth or decline in relation to the requirements of primary legal assistance. If we cross-reference data to provide secondary legal assistance for the '20s. and '21. We see that a total of 4.459 applications were submitted in '20, 2020, in '21. Something smaller, so 4,011. However, if we compare and look at what may be a more significant number of approved applications, then we actually see that in one year and in the second year, almost identically about 4 thousand applications are granted. As regards the types of procedures which are granted secondary remedies, legal aid, the most authorised in family legal procedures, then really legal procedures, enforcement procedures, equal procedures and procedures relating to consumer bankruptcy. As regards the financing of free legal aid, they shall be provided naturally in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year '21. This amounted to 4 million kunas, so for primary legal aid million 985 and secondary legal aid of two million 155 thousand. Of the intended funds for the provision of primary legal aid, the amount of a million 985 thousand has been paid, and for the provision of secondary legal aid a slightly smaller amount, therefore, a million 935 thousand kuna. So if we combine the 2020 funding, 2021, 7% more funds were paid in 2021 than in 2020, and if we only look at this segment of secondary legal aid, then it's in '21. There was a 25% increase in the year. In order to ensure primary legal assistance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by ensuring the balanced territorial distribution of legal assistance projects on the website of the Ministry of Justice and of the Administration, a public tender for the financing of projects of authorised associations and legal clinics for the provision of primary legal assistance has been announced. Of which, a total of '21 reports are visible. a total of 31 applicants or primary legal aid providers, after an expert assessment of the projects notified, the decision allocated financial resources for them 23. It is evident that one notifier or provider of that primary legal aid has not submitted its annual report and has been invited to actually return that non-performing asset to the state budget. In relation to secondary legal aid, funds are paid for fees, so for the work of lawyers, experts, interpreters, witness costs, insights and court ads. To lawyers, compensation for the provision of secondary legal assistance shall be paid on the basis of the accounting of costs in accordance with the decision to grant secondary legal assistance. If I say again, we'll do this data in the '20s. and '21. The year then we see that almost 25% more funds were paid than in '20, 2020. It is also important to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and Administration, has adopted a regulation on the value of the amount to determine the compensation for the provision of secondary legal aid for 2021 and the value of the fee for determining the work of a lawyer is set at 7 kuna as it was in 2020. This report was drawn up in accordance with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, so there have been these, there have been some objections that something here is missing or that there should be something else, but then, of course, it is necessary to amend the law itself which is the basis for the adoption of these reports. All in all, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113801	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113802	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, I have worked really long on this topic in terms of fighting for Croatia to ever get the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and I remember when we had a large coalition of associations even during EU accession and managed to fight for the first law. We were already saying that in fact, the way the law made it, it will not provide what was the objective, which is that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia really has the same access to justice regardless of its social status because it has actually been seen that through a series of restrictions set in law, that a bureaucratic procedure that comes to legal aid will actually be too difficult for many citizens. And when you're wondering why the number of people who are looking for free legal aid is actually falling, especially in relation to the primary one, I think the fact is that for many of these and primary ones, it's unattainable either in terms of geographical dislocatedness, or in the sense that simply for what they need the whole procedure they have to go through is not adequate. Here, counterpart Habib said before me that unfortunately citizens do not know that they have the right to primary or secondary free legal aid. So I think who's to blame for not knowing? ... You mean the difference between, so yes, but they don't know, you understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They don't know, a lot of people really don't know because we've never had a campaign about it. So there was no big public campaign about where citizens can get free legal advice, free legal information, where it is located in their area. So that's never been it. The second thing was clear from the beginning that the secondary legal aid would prevent lawyers or most lawyers from working for the money. And the fact is today that the vast majority of them refuse you, refuses to accept at all a request for free legal aid. And if you were to mention that if this were to add up the criminal cases to see how much the lawyer actually provides, so look at it going, first of all it's not according to this law, that's why it's not here, so it's going by second, second legal norms. It's going on the second tariff, it's going on the second tariff, a tariff that's kind of more interesting to lawyers, isn't it? So with this model of financing the primary which is the project and which is focused on some number of associations that actually manage to be selected in the competition and with these other terribly low rates for secondary legal aid we will not actually have secured, guaranteed what is the objective of the law, which is equal to access to justice. So when you look at the composition of the legal aid that was given in the years for which it was reported, for example, how many general legal information, how many legal advices, how many submissions you see how few there are actually representations. So you had it for 2021. 587 total representations and 531 legal assistance in the settlement which is good, therefore it is evident that the Institute of Peace is being used and that free legal assistance is being provided in this. However, it is actually terribly small on the whole of Croatia. When you look at the distribution of primary, primary legal aid, according to associations when you look at where the ones that passed the competition are, the vast majority of these associations are in Zagreb, that's the first one. Others who are not in Zagreb are the cities of Sisak, Pula, Rijeka, Osijek, Vukovar, Split, I don't know if anyone from Dubrovnik, I don't think I've seen anyone from Dubrovnik, they're all rich, not all rich in Dubrovnik, no. So I don't think I've seen anyone from Dubrovnik. And that's it for you, and that's it for you and the driver from Korenica here, they're from Korenica that's somewhat something for Lika-Senj County. So when you look at it, you have it in slightly larger cities and you don't actually have free legal aid available where we might need it the most, and it's in rural areas. What concerns me particularly, and as president of the Committee on the Environment, is the fact that, in fact, in matters relating to environmental protection, we do not have any associations that provide legal assistance on this list, nor do we have the provision of specific funding for this, and I think that this should be in Croatia's interest and that this should be in the interests of the ministry. Now I'm going to use the remaining time to say that people who fit that social category are going to have free legal aid when they put themselves in the role of whistles in the field of environmental protection and I'm going to talk about a man named Nikola Tesla. Not to the one who gave us electricity and many other benefits of the modern age but to Nikola Tesla, who is currently living on Velebit. So Nikola Tesla, who is an authorised guide in the Park of Nature Velebit, a speleologist and an intern and environmental guardian, has a house behind which the Municipality of Starigrad has built a large waste dump. He now has to pay huge court costs of 86,000 kuna for the lost court proceedings before the Zadar Municipal Court. And what happened to him? He asked for free legal assistance, he started the procedure, he first-degreed the procedure, he also got to the high court of law, he was indeed in all the agony he had been through he managed to fight for that illegal dump to end up and close. However, because of the municipality's grudge, man has received three criminal charges and he is being prosecuted for various criminal proceedings. First, he steals water because the municipality didn't provide him with water, but there's a pipe where there was a dump, so a man used to come in and pick up water and ask the municipality to charge him, they didn't charge him because they squeezed a criminal report saying he was stealing water. In addition, he was registered for work on black, and why he was registered for working on black because he taught guitars to children from a local cultural and artistic society, so here we found him to suck on his criminal application that he was working on a black illegal economic activity. So he also got a third criminal application for so-called. an attempt to blackmail and plant dangerous waste in the dump he's been arguing with the municipality, like he's putting himself in the trash. So that's how he finds citizens who are a social category, who lead the dispute in a way that they're looking for free legal aid and get it in which then the government not only blackmails you, but makes you completely bankrupt. He now has an insecure and insufferable income due to all these costs, living with his old mother. This is what happens to you when you are a whistler in the field of environmental protection, and the state has not assured you that you have free legal aid old the way, so all the way from the start of the procedure until it is over and about all the disputes that arise with it, and these disputes against him and these criminal charges have arisen directly in connection with what man whistled, which he said the municipality must not create an illegal waste disposal behind his house. This is the situation in which today's modern Nikola Tesla and Nikola Tesla of the 21st century provide help as a state, and he has done our country an excellent service because he has forced this municipal authority to shut down an illegal waste dump no less than on Velebit in the area of protection of the highest category and in the area of Nature 2000. Here, thank you. I'll get you some water.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113803	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go. It's so-called. The cycle of water in nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113804	The rounding of water in nature, then twice thanks to Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of free legal assistance should be to achieve equality between all citizens and citizens before the law, to ensure access to legal protection and equality before courts and other public bodies. It is therefore good that the system of free legal assistance is constantly being regulated and evaluated by the implementation of existing rules. In this sense, we can give criticism to ourselves about the current state of affairs, first of all, that we currently consider funding insufficient and insufficient. Free legal aid is organised projectfully with funding on an annual basis, and the Ministry of Justice publishes the results of the competition only half a year in May. Furthermore, there are significant regional derogations in the availability of legal assistance in different regions in Croatia, so some counties do not have associations or legal clinics that could provide primary legal assistance. Secondary legal assistance is becoming even more difficult and complicated. Help seekers are often convicted of seeking a lawyer, and because of overbooking and other reasons why my colleague Bencic actually spoke much more, they rarely even manage to hire lawyers. Finally, if we can make some recommendations, they would be to establish, instead of funding on an annual basis, a multi-annual financial framework as well as intensifying efforts to make free legal aid evenly available throughout the Republic of Croatia. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113805	Now, finally, on behalf of the CENTR and GLAS Club, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113806	That's exactly what I was going to ask. Is that what all the water was drinking? ... So when we talk about equality of arms, there is no equality. [[You can't hear it.]] Therefore, this entire system should be reconstructed from the ground as it should actually be reconstructed by the state after the change of HDZ. To those who have a particular legal problem, the only adequate legal aid is the one provided by lawyers who, in the case of wrongful legal advice, are therefore appropriate, so the person who got the wrong advice can also be charged and receive compensation because lawyers, unlike legal clinics and unlike various associations, pay some kind of insurance. On this side, more lawyers and all resources should be given for the work of lawyers, and lawyers should be flexible on the tariff so that they do not have to work on the social groups too high and inaccessible as prescribed by the Croatian Bar. That's step one. The second step is reform on this side too. So where the lawyer might have a little bit and too much. I'm not saying that lawyers are guilty, I'm not saying that they need to be taken from their hands, I'm not saying that there are some corrupt shops in it, but most of our state-owned companies, so the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, have their own lawyers and these lawyers are generously paying. Only one company exceeds this amount, which is allocated on an annual basis for free legal aid, and now multiply it with all state-owned companies, with all companies owned by counties, cities and municipalities and with all other public-legal bodies. Now when we talk about how to represent these other public-legal bodies, so for many of them it would be much more quality and useful not to be represented at all by lawyers. I know from practice that very often mayors and municipal commissioners asked for the help of law firms and sought counsel from a lawyer, so they got it. That's what they're looking for in order to protect themselves from possible criminal proceedings today. However, the advice they received was not in line with the interpretation given by the State’s Attorney’s Office, so they were found after the shift of authorities in unguarded grapes not always in some truly bent intention to do something illegal. What I propose is to go back to the system we once had, which is that municipalities and other public-law bodies represent the State's Attorney's Office, their civil-law departments, which means that instead of paying from public funds, lawyers are paid where public service needs to be represented, that this service is provided by the State's attorneys as already part of the public system and public service. Then the information that public authorities would have had would have been reliable, sure, would have been a greater guarantee that our politicians were not doing something illegal because it simply did not give them that system. This would also result in significant savings, and this would lead to a more equal distribution of financial resources in order to achieve better weapons equality, and to refer to the protection of whistles that have also been discussed in this debate, take apart from this example that my colleague Bencic pointed out and any other situation where, for example, a state-owned company that has unlimited financial resources to launch dozens of different procedures against its former employee who has reported corruption can do so practically with the funds that we allocate, so we finance corruption and at the same time, the whistler will not get free legal assistance because it is not in that category of social cases as these criteria are prescribed now. And we can't stay on these parameters, because there's just no gun equality. And if the Croatian Parliament is shown not only by opposition clubs, but also by other state institutions such as the attorney general, then the intention and intention of the HDZ is clear why it does not want to change anything in such a poorly designed model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113807	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113808	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end, as most of you here today have discussed, it's about a really important report, about a very important institute that we have. Free legal aid is primarily important to ensure that the protection of all citizens is equally guaranteed before the law and before the court and other public-legal bodies, and therefore I believe that this report that we are discussing today is also very important. Such a free legal aid institute as we have today has actually been brought to life by the introduction of a law that came into force in 1.1.2014 with the fact that since 2020, when public administration offices have actually taken over by the county we have in some way changed in territorial representation and institutional change in the provision of legal, free legal assistance by the county offices and the City of Zagreb Office. What is most significant is that this institute is, in fact, the most needed and should be used by those of our citizens who are socially and economically weak and that is why I believe that this institute is significant because the state needs to help them in this way. As already said, we distinguish that primary so-called. primary and secondary free legal aid. With primary legal aid, it is certainly important that there are these associations that provide this assistance and we see that the citizens' intensity is that they are largely referred to that the legal aid provided by them is the most representative in providing this primary legal assistance. As regards secondary free legal aid relating to the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative disputes or judicial proceedings, it is also very important and this is primarily about the provision of such legal assistance by lawyers representing persons who exercise the right to free legal assistance, however it is also about the release of parties which exercise this right from judicial costs and from paying court fees, which I think is very significant. The abandonment of a strict property censorship has also enabled greater access by users to secondary legal assistance, which I also think is positive. What we can see by comparing these two reports is that it's kind of a decline in demand in 2021. compared to 2020, however, these figures are not significant, but it is still possible to conclude this one trend of decline. What I would say in the end, I think it is very important in secondary legal aid that the largest number of requirements in the field of family relations, and what is also evident is that the most represented form of secondary legal aid was in the release from payment of court fees and about 39%, then representation in court proceedings 31%, and finally the release from payment of court fees somewhere 27%. It was said here that there was insufficient financial assistance to provide free legal assistance, the funds are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and what I would have found based on the facts in this report that in both of these years there was enough resources to be provided, even one part of the unused funds remained so that we cannot say that the aid was insufficiently provided by the State. Another thing we can talk about is whether lawyers are satisfied with the value of the points prescribed and whether this interest is therefore small and insufficient, but it is certain that the state budget has provided sufficient assurances. funds to provide the same and that this institute has been promoted so far [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and made more available to all citizens. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-02-0.u113809	That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We are done working for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the report on the use of European Structural Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes for the EU for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021. I want a nice rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 16:21 p.m.
