ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u82889	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] I'll do it first in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the agenda of the 10th session with 3 new points. Proposal for a Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land, Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act and Proposal for a Decision declaring the first week of June of the Days of Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 10th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u82987	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the honourable representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u82988	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President HS, my dear colleagues and colleagues. Among other things, today we will vote on the Covid Report of Measures, no matter what we think about the work of the Staff, I think we will agree that in this pandemic a lot has come to the surface, now we see to what extent the interests that are in the background are taking place in and promoting in a shameless way. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is very important for our public that all experts, doctors and others who influence public opinion announce their relations with the companies that earn from this whole thing. We also have a case with the head of the EU Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who is in a rather difficult situation because it is seen that text messages are literally agreed on by billions of jobs, the billion jobs are negotiated by Ursula on his cell phone, and it is difficult to publish the content of these messages. So, interests are huge and I think time will show that everyone who has been very critical of these measures, I think in the end it's about trying to control people in an invisible way, so they haven't always been led, first of all, to care about public health than I think motivation was different, but no matter what I think about it, I'd like to talk about today another phenomenon that's very dangerous, which is mass censorship on social networks. So in order for people and parents to make the right decisions, they must have objective information. It's been getting really hard lately. They even filed lawsuits against the factographer in Croatia who unfortunately abuses his power to decide what he might see and what information, which opinion on Facebook. So the charges started. I mean, it's not an accident, enough to say, missing context and I can reduce the reach of a certain publication or even remove it. We know that freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy, and we know what role social networks play today. So this is a big topic that is slowly becoming more and more current in Croatia, and I think that our fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution are also valid on Facebook, so the Homeland Movement is going to insist on it and we are preparing a law that will regulate this area and I am going to state another fact. This week, Facebook lost $230 billion in one day. It's the biggest downfall of a company in America's history. 230 billion, a total of 20% of the company's worth was lost in one day. So why? Because the boys are playing and exaggerating. They're exaggerating. They big tech as one, as a single phenomenon, one concept that describes all these companies that shake our lives and decide actually what people are allowed to and should not see fall into big problems. And I don't think Croatia should be the last in line, we see that this narrative is slowly changing, from Canada to other countries, people with the right to rebel and raise their voice, I don't think it's easy for the current prime minister in Canada these days, and I don't think these truckers are going to give up. So we have a fight for fundamental human rights. And that's what it looks like today. Croatia will not be at the end of that train, so we will encourage a debate about it because we have learned a lot and we need to learn real lessons from this trouble that concerns all of us. Therefore, it is necessary to arrange that space and prevent all abuses of anonymous people without a name and a last name from deciding what is similar and unmatched. We also see that science slowly changes its position in the pandemic, so we will persist because freedom of speech is fundamentally right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u82989	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a short break from here, 7, 8 minutes, how long it takes us until 12 when we see each other here again at the vote on the points we discussed. It's 11:00.54. And as we have already announced several times today and agreed, we will move immediately to the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and, first of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. She's not here. He loses his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, he will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83044	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Here, we need in the name of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to look back at a shameful, incomprehensible, inadmissible decision of the JDO in Osijek, which was rejected by the Association of Croatian defenders and volunteers of war defenders Vukovar by her grandmother Bernardica Štefančić, uncle and DORH, the ZDO at the beginning of February after that year, two trials made the decision that this criminal application was rejected. The reason behind this decision is incomprehensible because when we know that in the Republic of Croatia and otherwise war crimes are at the expense of Croatian citizens, victims of Croatia, civil victims of Croatia are slow or in no way investigated, we have tremendous difficulties that are frustrating the Croatian people, that we have several thousand unpunished war crimes in the Republic, where even the police have taken certain steps, where even open investigations, where we have come up with certain charges, but there is no justice, the truth and in such circumstances, when the JDO in Osijek has made such a blasphemous, scandalous, sacratic decision to reject a criminal complaint that all the elements to open an investigation of war crime that does not become obsolete, and this has been explained by some explanation that the 7th, as already detected by Mr. Kaikic, this, in fact, in the 7th century, that they have not been able to believe in the 7th century, that they are part of the Croats, or 14 years old. SAO Krajina. So what is it, my dear gentlemen? Well, I mean, these reasons themselves clearly state that the attorney general of the state is Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek and the minister of justice must immediately request a detailed explanation of this decision, examine scandalousness, and we, Croatian sovereigns, on this case and in this case, will request a session of the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on National Security, because if throwing, the potential tossing of rotten eggs for the Committee on National Security, then it is absolutely certain that the non-functioning of the system of state repression, the State's Attorney's Office in matters of unsustainable war crimes, and in fact disabling research and bringing justice to the perpetrators of the most disgusting, most disgusting war crimes against the damage of Croatian civilians, the subject that we must deal with both in this Assembly and in this Croatian society. So be ashamed of all who participated in this and rewarded the murderers to live freely and experience their old age unpunished, and you made it impossible for the little angel to reach his executioner. On the other hand, hypocrites have an innocently murdered Alexandra Zec to which we will give the street in Zagreb. Look into your eyes, condemn your actions and support that little Martina gets justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83107	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Martina Opačak Bilic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83108	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today, February 11th marks the World Day of a patient still in '92. in the year was founded by Holy Father Pope John Paul II, and he declared him to draw attention to the sick and their needs. And of course, the goal of marking the World Day of Patients is also to sensitise the public for the needs of patients and to provide better health care, and this is especially important today when we live at a time when health protection is one of the main topics in the world. And that's why I keep today important talk about this subject, but here, I'm going to try to look back at it in a slightly wider sense. In fact, support to all patients, here I want to give a special emphasis today on the overall health system and send a clear message as to how important it is to care and to look at all patients and how important it is to be that in the care and conversation of the current most popular or to say, the most promoted Covid-19 disease should not actually be put into another plan by other patients and other diseases that are often more common and dangerous than that Covid. That is why I want to stress the importance of a more quality approach and a more quality concern that is often lagging behind. Unfortunately, we often witness that here, back two years in particular, this complete approach is neglected for all patients. Data on both the patients and the fatalities are actually worrying precisely about other diseases, the type of cardiovascular disease and the disease of the circulatory system, for example, the diseases of smoking, all of which, here, the diseases that can be actually very easy and preventable, almost 80% of cases, if discovered early, and in fact in today's time, we can say somehow side by side. I will therefore present some data today, here, unfortunately our Croatia is with all the bad trends and bad statistics, actually following us and bad statistics in the area, for example, cancer mortality, where on average, on average, this malignancies death of nearly 15 thousand people, and unfortunately, it places us in, to the very top among the EU member states, while, for comparison, by the number of patients on the 15th list. So by the number of deaths we're 5, by the number of patients 15. What does that information tell us? So this information tells us exactly and indicates that a large one, that we have a large number of late-discovered cases of this malignant disease. So, clearly even before Covid was, we had a situation of late detection of malignancies, and what we need to talk about today is what is waiting for us when all of this is over and what we can actually, let's say, amortize, if we react strategically and in due time, what we're going to face after the pandemic is over, and that's an even greater number of late disclosures precisely because of the delay in the examination. When we talk about patients and patient day, as I said, we should talk about the whole system, about the health system as a resistor that, here, cannot stand on healthy legs and actually constantly produce the biggest losses and parallels every day actually gives us a worse approach to treatment because we haven't once had a chance to look at situations that, here, oncological patients late medications, that on radiotherapy i.e. The radiation waits for months, not only that, here are the parents of small thumbs who were terrified until yesterday and feared whether their children would be treated or not, the magnetic resonance of each year is getting longer and longer, not to mention, here, the importance of mental health that is actually extremely endangered and all these are situations that are present and which, and all of them are actually talking about concern, i.e.. not taking care of patients. As we know, a healthy man has a thousand wishes, a sick one, a health, and that is why here, for all the patients of today, and in general I want a quick recovery and recovery and I want to see, to all those who in their efforts give them a quick recovery, I want to give them one big thank you. Thanks to the efforts of both humanity and all health and health care professionals and family members who care for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83328	He will now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta Honored Representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83329	Dear Vice President of HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues. If we don't have a beekeeper, we don't have a bee, and if we don't have a bee, there's nothing. And whatever my performance or speech may cause individuals to smile, but it's better for people to laugh than to cry when I speak from this assembly, it's still important to raise awareness of a few things. On January 19th, my colleagues from HDZ, please remind Minister Vučković, for good reason, I always try to get everything in good faith, sometimes I get it by my head, but I guess that's how in my life, so on January 19th, I referred the parliamentary question to Minister Vukkovic that it is possible that the need to involve beekeeping in the support programme for extremely sensitive sectors in agriculture in 2022 has been given 0. Šipak, 0 Kuna, and then the same minister of tens of millions of kunas, now watch this, provide support for the development of tobacco products. So who's crazy about it?- I'm sorry. With all due respect to all the colleagues who use tobacco in one way or another or maybe, ha, who knows, and some other kind of grass. So, tens of millions of kuna, Minister Vučković invests in the development of tobacco products, 0 kunas in the development of honey, bee products. So amazingly, I hope it's an oversight, here, indeed. So when the beekeepers informed me about it, at first I thought it was Alan Ford, then I realized it wasn't, and I asked a parliamentary question, and the minister hasn't answered yet, but still in the 30. So one reminder, I know you're following everything and you're watching everything, so just remind the minister to help people. I was at the beekeeper's, one I'd like to point out because the Croatian defender is, and I'm always kind of sensitive to all of you Croatian defenders, here you are, too, thank you for defending our country and giving us freedom from whatever political options you came from, because whoever defended this country, I was a kid then, I graduated from elementary school, here are the generals and colleagues from the SDP, maybe someone... I apologize, so thank you for having us and your colleagues from HDZ, for defending us and defending our country. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What's important to me, General, to you, too, is what matters to me, so if I were a minister, you know what I would do? He would impose on that poison from China, he would impose on that jar of quasimede, which actually cost sugar 700 kuna, if no one were to buy it. And ours, yes, yes, exactly what you would do, dead-cold, one move, and our boys and girls who produce OPGs making Croatian honey, would help them with everything that could make that honey who is healthy, here today is the Lady of Health, which is health, that it is normally costing him and that Croatian citizens, what am I, Lourdes, is that so, thank you, I'm a little bit, I ran after mass so here, with Dolca, so thank you Stjepo, therefore, Lurdska Ma'am, yes, thank you Stjepo. So we must as a state take care of our citizens. I beg you, so people buy poison from China, or maybe it's poison, that China, is it poison that comes from China, well, no. So people buy non-quality products from China, and then our producers can't distribute honey. If I get them right, we even have honey to be self-sufficient. We even have it, but then when it goes into distribution, then there are big problems, and there's going to be a turn and this story about the Croatian beekeeper's alliance, and then the incentives that don't get distributed to people, you know, it's like I'm the boss of the house, so now you get, if you make 20 million, the kid comes in and says, "Dad, can't you do the movie?" Can't for schooling, education, can't. Yeah, he's gonna organize his dad's workshops, so I'm gonna pay for myself and invite some of my own, yeah, well, we're gonna do a little of that, you know, how it goes, capillaryly, so he's gonna come back to dad. I'll dig it all up, I won't give you breath. Breathe. Breathe. So our bees are at risk, UN studies, the World Nature Protection Council points to a reduction in the bee population, and it's important that we do everything we can because 70% of the crops that humanity feeds question bees and, please, this is no joke. We're talking about food and food quality, we're talking about the future of our people. We guard the bees and our bees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83400	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Boris Lalovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we will once again emphasise the importance of the government's rapid action in the case of inflational actions already present for the past month very strongly and how much inflation is actually affected by society and which institutions respond to inflation at all. In documents, legal documents defining inflation, the fundamental issue of inflation is in the CNB and CNB documents. Unfortunately, we've only been dealing with CNB for the last two or three months, but only some of their scandals, not only whether they were trading some securities or not trading securities, whether they chose coin design, they can't do it either. Today we read that their vice governors, who have twice as much salary as the prime minister, I must admit, are openly surprised by how long most of this House will tolerate it, means level 3 of the CNB, level 3. 1st is governor level, 2nd is deputy governor level, 3rd is vice governors. The 3rd level of the CNB has twice as much salary as the prime minister who has to deal with inflation, prices, energy, this,.../incomprehensible/... whatever happens in Croatia every day. Double the size. What's the third level of CNB doing? Buys out.../incomprehensible/..., of, debt on the market from citizens who have fallen into trouble. Who we've been here in the Parliament repeatedly asked to be banned by law. Now, I have to admit to the ruling majority that I admire how long you tolerate what you've been doing in the CNB, not doing nothing, but making fun of those who are trying to do something, so next week the prime minister is going to take some action, trying to do something. The governor's statements about inflation, he doesn't care. He doesn't care. What are you asking me, huh? That, go shopping where it's cheaper. I have to admit they don't live in this country. As if here in this House there are no bills in the Parliament, they must work together with the government. They have to help the government suppress inflation. They have to help, they have to be, it says in their documents, we didn't make it up, it says in the basic documents. They don't deal with.../incomprehensible... they don't deal with anything else, they deal with inflation. They don't do that at all. They trade real estate, they trade debt, they buy securities. They act non-shallantly, see how some positions will arise, but in the European Central Bank. I have to admit that this is the level of haughtiness, and you know why they do it? Because I can. Because I can. Where were they when the Swiss franc was? Nowhere. They pushed the government to solve the problem. Where were they now regarding inflation? Who did they push the inflation from the CNB? They pushed the government, you handle it, we won't handle it. The quiet minuses, who'd they push? They pushed the government to solve it again. I don't know, I don't know, that here we are today wondering what their function is? What's theirs, what's theirs? Except that third level has between 45 and 50 thousand kuna receipts. You tell me, I really don't know, here, let me know, let them come out and tell me what they're doing? What do they want to do? Which is at all a level of haughtiness, depravation of both this House and the government and the state and everything. I mean, what level can it go to? And to what level will the ruling tolerate it because I think when it enters the euro, so it is not their function just to replace it when it comes and enter, their function is much more important in this society, much more important, more active, the citizens listen to it, to act, to calm the public, to say we will help the Government, to say what their instruments are, to be supportive. Supporting society, that's why they're called "Croatian", is it, to teach society and all institutions, is it? I must admit that these all the measures that the government is proposing, which the SDP already has for 10 days, has repeatedly kept repeating, to help the pensioners, no one really cares, in the end, the CNB is there as if they are actually a ficus that serves very well received, just a question of how long it will be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83485	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83486	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I will make one point, and it is about one subject which is unfortunately in media content, or not enough, in my humble and opinion of the club... and the fact is, it is the fact that negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have been opened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It may be one of the last international organisations, and it may be very important international organisations which the Republic of Croatia is not a full member of. In some ways we enter, in the sports jargon said, in the first league because membership imposes some... business, social practices that are certainly aimed at improving our overall economic, economic and any other development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is, of course, one of the foreign-political priorities in the mandate and this government, so it doesn't turn out to be just the fact that it's now some ad hoc decision that's been made and some magic wand has started working on that idea. The fact is that it is a pre-planned process that lasts several years, a bunch of people, experts have approached the processing of this topic very, very studioy because, as I said, it is an organisation that is on international terms, in international relations giving a whole new dimension and as such guidelines that exist and are made of this international organization, so on. ... For the conduct of companies that are in society, state-owned is one of the basic ideas of adapting companies to the global, European and primarily in the interest of the Croatian market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these activities are carried out through the Ministry.../incomprehensible/... of the current Ministry of Construction and Property and, of course, with the support of the OECD's main Directorate for Structural Reforms, which, of course, are based on the EU Commission. The name of the whole process is to improve corporate governance in state-owned enterprises by revising and harmonising regulation in accordance with OECD corporate governance guidelines. What are the OECD's basic recommendations? In particular, due to certain fragmented regulatory frameworks, each country has its own norms and governance, one general framework is given in which the decentralisation of social enterprises, i.e. companies or other forms that are state-owned and give such co-ordination activities greater uniformisation, standardisation and coordination of all activities than, starting with the lowest ones, such as the archive service to international standards, the acceptance of all accounting new standards and in order to prepare all these companies, both in a prudential, credit and any other sense, but those measures that are necessary for these things to be achieved without problems. Like I said, there's a lot of work going on. The biggest problem will be in, i.e. the idea when deciding and the supervisory authorities is the introduction of clear guidelines for all members of the supervisory authorities, or members of the supervisory boards in such societies that have one completely new function. Finally, I am sure, and also at the HDZ Club, we reiterate this fact that the conduct and accession of this international organisation will further strengthen the faith of all Croatian institutions, especially state institutions that are currently and at present times well qualified and derrogated, and when there are crisis situations, it is the only straw and the only pillar of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83487	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u83559	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would say something that is current these days in Croatia, and on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, and as regards the price of the energy, especially the divergence of gas prices and related to it, the statement by Minister Ćorić, who is clumsy or whatever it may be and, perhaps deliberately, said the truth, that there is no more Croatian, so that is his truth, although it is not quite so, but obviously someone who arranged the sale of INAs decided to be so that there is no Croatian oil, there is no Croatian gas. If anyone is asked a little bit about the past of oil research, gas findings in the Middle East, then they will see that foreign companies that had money came into, to the Middle East with capital and talked to countries that didn't have their own capital at the time, were poor, ratios in how they would invest in research and subsequent exploitation of oil and gas, and how it would be paid to foreign companies that came with capital, which share or percentage of profits will go to host countries, so to the countries that own these oil that are underground or gas. These ratios later changed in the past as to whom it was appropriate, how politics were, what prices, but it never happened that 100% of the gas owner in Saudi Arabia was an American company that has been there since the beginning of a study that started in that story because then Saudi Arabia was a poor country that had no resources to go into research at all. So that was the deal between the two states. Croatia is a completely opposite example, a unique example in the world. So Croatia is one of the first countries in Europe that has ever started to exploit oil and gas, in Međimurje, if I am not mistaken, at the end of the 19th century with my own capital. Later, when there was an expansion of oil and gas exploitation, it was done exclusively by domestic resources, domestic capital, social, state, whatever you want. A state-owned company was created, a social firm, to correct myself, there was nothing state-owned, but there was no communism but there was a special model that was called it all social, or ours, there were some self-control workers, as funny as it sounded, on paper, so it wasn't state-owned, it wasn't communist, it was our own, it was social. INA was, therefore, the company whose owners were de facto employees of the company, or all the citizens, in order to come into a situation today that the economy minister, so the resolution minister says has no oil, no gas, forget our beaches, sea, water, etc., etc. There are ministers, there are ladies and gentlemen ruling, on the ruling side, but it's just not clear how much it is. We heard a variety of speculations about Croatia, there would be a supply of oil and gas, i.e. oil and gas production in percentages as much as it would be for our market. I don't know, and you can't get that data, I listened to Mr. Stern saying that the last serious research, geological research, was done during the former state, so 35 years ago, and only technology, you can imagine how much it's changed in the last 35 years. So we don't know what percentage Croatia would possibly have up to the full percentage needed for Croatia to have its gas and its oil. We've given it to strangers along with resources, along with everything that's been built for 50 years and more, and now it's not ours anymore. The current prices are gas, so I'm going to make one proposal and I mean, that's a proposal that's not unserious, that's a proposal that any sovereign state would make that, and that any sovereign state can and has the right to make. Since oil, although Ćorić argues otherwise, and gas, are not Hungarian, are not INA's, but are Croatian, it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and it is Croatia that, regardless of the property of the company, issue concessions for the exploitation of gas and oil in our area, let those concessions be raised to the maximum, it should be blackmailed people who sell gas and oil to Croatian, Croatian and Croatian citizens. and thus regulate the price of citizens [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think the proposal is very simple... [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89313	And last item, Selection, appointment and resolution, is the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I suggest, if you agree to hold a united vote on all 11 proposed decisions. Is everyone okay? If so, then I am voting on proposal 11 decisions as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 114 MPs and MPs voted in favour, so decisions were unanimously taken as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Thank you all very much. We continue on Wednesday, 16 February at 9:30 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education. Thank you and have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.00 hours. Now we're going to vote on the debated points. The first is the Final Proposal for the Law on Notification Procedures in the field of technical regulations and regulations on the services of the TRIS Information Society, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 185. The motion is government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and representatives voted, 115 for and 3 abstentions, and the Law on the notification procedure in the field of technical regulations and regulations on the services of the TRIS Information Society was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89684	We are now going to declare amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 207. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Katarina Peović, MP Dalia Oreskovic, and the Green-left bloc representative club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic. Amendment No. 1. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89685	The amendment is not accepted. The existence of a legally confirmed criminal charge which makes the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia unworthy to perform his judicial duty already required as the basis for his resolution in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 44th century d), hail. 3. Court law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89686	Honorable representative, and Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89687	Thank you very much. I didn't know the defense was an amendment, I'm sorry, I'm prepared for the law. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. We think it's important to select a judge or judge of the Supremes simply to have information on whether or not it's being conducted, whether it's a confirmed charge of a possible criminal offence, impossible to solve this by simply resolving it. We have an example of the recent Mr. Bačić who has been the director for a long time, although he was under, in prison, and we think it's one way to finally put an end to such a practice that people with criminal charges or even convicted criminal acts ever get into a situation that is so important. Thank you. We're staying with the amendment and we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89688	Amendment No. 2. Representatives Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89689	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 66. The applicable Law on Courts is not subject to these amendments and additions, nor are the conditions for exceptions prescribed by the cited business provision of HS. That amendment cannot be accepted, in addition to that completion and the dynamics of the procedure are subject to procedural regulation and cannot be regulated by organisational regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89690	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89691	It's really fascinating to me that we're going to change the Law on Courts, one of the most important things, and also in your introduction and in your explanation, to speed up the meaning of cases and solving cases and then say what you just said, so we didn't go to change art. 66... Sometimes things are really simple, if you want to speed up procedures then speed them up. So this amendment has been so concluded that if the judge has a discretionary right to extend means a procedure of longer than 6 months to limit it to one year, and if there is an extension that this extension has to be explained and that there is a complaint on it, not only was it allowed for business to change this article, so I'll tell you then there is an article of the Constitution, Art. The 116th century 3 which says that there is, firstly, the 29th century, Art. 29th century 1 which states that everyone has the right to rule by law, upon the law established by an independent and impartial court, on the fair and within a reasonable period of time on his rights and obligations, or on the suspicion or accusation of a criminal act, too. Article 116(3) states that the establishment, detour and composition of courts and the establishment of courts are governed by the law and the proceedings before the courts. So the court proceedings are governed by the law. So, you've had business opportunities if you've already made a mistake, you haven't touched article 66 that you're changing it, and if you haven't already gone to change it, this explanation is totally unacceptable because you're going to change it yourself, so that's the Court Act to speed up the process. We've given you a document anonymously on which you have an example that says that the judge has given you two years. He's extended the procedure to two years, and that's not an isolated case. So this could really solve the key problem, which is speeding up the procedure. I ask to vote on the amendment. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89692	Thank you. Amendment number 3. Green-left block advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89693	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is not acceptable, and the need to introduce periodic security checks is detailed in the final proposal for the law and the debate in the Croatian Parliament is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89694	In the name of the club, respected representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89695	... I apologize to her, thank you. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[Intruder Reiner: You can microphone please turn it on.]] So we believe that this amendment of ours is more precisely defined when a judicial officer can use firearms. In fact, we hold that the formulation unless the use of firearms is the only means to defend the attack or eliminate danger is simply not precise enough because it can be interpreted that the use of firearms is allowed when a judicial officer does not have any other weapon next to him to deter a possible attack. We therefore suggest that instead of the word “only” the word “fine” which would clearly indicate that the use of weapons is only possible as an ultimate means when a policeman cannot defend himself or another person by a physical stick or by some other means. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89696	The fourth amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89697	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89698	Representative Oreskovic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. Fifth Amendment to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89699	The amendment is not accepted. The wording ‘only’ shall be the same as in the provision of Article 93(1). Law on police affairs and powers governing the use of firearms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89700	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89701	So we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. So the proposal to arrange security checks for judges is first of all an extremely important thing, and this proposal is inconclusive and leaves room for arbitration and legal uncertainty for the persons for whom the verification is carried out. For example, the proposal does not say anything about what will happen if, for example, the judge refuses to give consent to a security check required under the Security Verification Act. So it's not defined to the end, it's not precise enough, and it's extremely important, and that's why we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89702	Sixth amendment of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89703	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89704	It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh amendment of MP Veljak Katazia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89705	The amendment is not accepted. According to the applicable provisions of the Law on Courts and the proposed provision in the final draft of the law, the minimum level of education required by a permanent court interpreter was completed by a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or a specialist degree professional study. It is previously known as a high professional cook, and while respecting the argument that for certain languages this is a restrictively prescribed condition, we have accepted the amendment of the Committee on Justice, which is an alternative condition for pre-graduate studies as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89706	Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89707	I withdraw my amendment because I expect that the next amendments to the law will lead to the resolution of my proposal that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89708	Thank you. So the amendment has been withdrawn. The eighth amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89709	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89710	It becomes an integral part of the law. The ninth amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89711	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89712	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89713	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 207. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Katarina Peović, MP Dalia Oreskovic and the Green-left bloc representative club. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, we discussed them earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go, before the vote we have requests for a break. First up, colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89714	I thank President HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center and GLAS Party Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our judiciary is really burdened by the serious affairs that seem to me to be the very system that is not well solved and that is the reason for the great mistrust of citizens in the justice and rule of law system. However, the only way that our judiciary sinks below the level at which it is now, and we all know that at the very bottom of our trust in the judiciary compared to other EU Member States, is that it intervenes HDZ as a political party legally convicted of corruption in our judiciary. What is disputed in this Law on Courts? It introduces periodic security checks for all judges working in the system. Such a model does not exist in any EU Member State, and the Advisory Council of European Judges has also given its opinion indicating that this is a bad and dangerous practice. In fact, security checks are carried out by SOA, which primarily accounts for its work for the government and the president of the state, so to the executive authority. This is one way of instrumentalising a judicial system for political authority's needs. We won't get less corruption in the system. If we wanted to do so then we would have set up a better internal control system by checking the property cards of the judicial officials that are still missing and when they are set up, so the competent authorities say when the conditions are met. Gentlemen, I'm asking you when it will be, one day when HDZ is moving out of power, but by then we'll have what this law is doing, which is that HDZ is putting a new noose on the judges' necks because the only worse thing than a corrupt judge is a blackmailing judge through classified data that the SOA has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89715	Thank you. The apartment is approved. We're going to the second, second request, that's colleague Raukar Gamulin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89716	Thank you. So we're looking for a two-minute break in front of the Green-Left Block Club to further consult on the vote on this law. In fact, the vote on this bill has been announced as a vote on the so-called so-called vote. A package of judicial reform in the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that this is not about any reform but only about some cosmetic changes to laws that will not result in any reform. Voted or not by this concrete law and the laws that come into this package, the situation in the Croatian judiciary will not improve, and we remain in the company of those EU countries that have the worst-rated judiciary. The confidence of citizens in the judiciary, which is one of the key things in the functioning of the rule of law, will not be strengthened, and we know how low it is. We can't understand why this government doesn't have the courage to make a real deep justice reform that will make it true to say "breath in the judiciary," reward those judges and judges who honor their work, and sanction those who do it unprofessionally, occasionally and unethically. When will we open the courts to the public, debate, constructive criticism, when will we bring them closer to the citizens that every citizen knows at all times and can ask what is wrong with his case? When are we going to end the territorial fragmentation of the courts and instead of opening additional courts, introduce temporary court statements depending on the needs of the court itself? So these are just some of the assumptions that need to be put into the true reform of the judiciary and what you're asking us to vote on today is certainly not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89717	And this break has been approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we'll comply. 293.b. continue to work, so let's vote on amendments that the government does not accept. The first in line is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment number two, MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept it. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3. The Green-left bloc advocates' club again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 4th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 5th Amendment Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 5th Amendment of the Justice Committee is, excuse me. The Justice Committee has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. 7th MP Veljak Katasia has been withdrawn from both 8 and 9. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 78 for, 13 abstentions and 27 against, have voted, and thus the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89959	We are now going to declare amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 207. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Katarina Peović, MP Dalia Oreskovic, and the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Excuse me, this is about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 208. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, the representative Katarina Peovic, and MP Branko Bačić. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I ask the President of the Proposer to show himself about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic. First of all, Amendment number one to the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89960	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89961	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two of Katarina Peovic's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89962	The amendment is not accepted. Following the multiannual application of the provisions of Article 4 of the applicable Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts on Second Instanceal Specialisation within the Civil and Branch of the Court, and as a result of the continuing trend in reducing the number of second-degree cases, the implementation of such specialisation is no longer necessary as a special means of equating the workload of the county courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89963	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89964	Thank you. So what's this about? For years, it has been a practice of specialising individual county courts in certain cases. So the family items in family terms were right, in the second degree procedure means we solved, for example, Pula, Zagreb and Split, County Court in Pula, Zagreb and Split, and so it was related to other specializations. Now this gives all the county courts the opportunity to make, decide on complaints against all municipal courts in labour disputes, means of all of our decisions first. Now here, I think you've now made it possible for all the county courts but what's missing is actually an analysis of why it's done is not really enough of this to be an unequal workload and that it's not at all supported by any data, or, say, a continuous trend in reducing the number of secondary objects. Why, I think the continuing trend of reducing second-degree cases would be the reason to mean that all county courts are allowed to judge in each case, and that there are no specializations that are not quite justified. Perhaps if an analysis had been put there, but in any case, the public is having an intense discussion about how family law matters should be really specialised. And that's why it's amazing that now that those who have been specialized are actually demoted, they are being taken away from that specialization especially in matters of family relations, family rights where it's particularly sensitive. So it's important for judges to be educated and to know what it is and to be very specialised in certain areas. So we're very sorry you didn't accept this amendment. And we'll insist on voting. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89965	3rd Amendment of Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89966	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89967	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th Amendment of Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89968	It shall be adopted but in a modified form in a way that the provision of Article 4 of the final proposal of the law reads, proceedings in the cases of municipal courts under the law governing family relations in the cases of county courts referred to in Article 4(1) to (4). Law on areas and courts and cases of the Commercial Court in Split referred to in Article 7. The Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts which are not legally terminated until the date of entry into force of this Act will be completed by courts whose jurisdiction belonged to the provisions of the Law on Areas and Courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89969	Your Honor, Mr. Bacic, do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I agree. So it's the metrics that remain the same, it's about the tipfeler that was in the amendment itself, so I accept this amended and updated amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89971	And it becomes an integral part of the law. And the 5th amendment, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was lifted, raised by a respected representative of Peovic. Here you go. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89972	238, I think she'd say who's actually belittled the MPs, it's hard to actually locate the real culprit, and maybe I could thank my colleague Bačić because as far as I understand from what you've just said, it's actually a reorganized amendment that I've actually submitted, so I don't understand how it's not in that acceptance of your amendment and stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89973	Look, it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Please let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. 5. Amendment to the Committee of Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89974	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89975	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u89976	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Court Areas and Seats, second reading, P.Z. No. 209, the promoter is the government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, MP Katarina Peovic and MP Branko Bačić. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The vote, we held the statement earlier at the session, and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. 1. The amendment of the Justice Committee has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the final draft law. The 2nd amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not have to accept the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 3. Amendment by MP Branko Bačić has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 4 of the same representative is accepted by the Government in an amended form by which the applicant of the amendment has agreed to make the amended amendment an integral part of the law. And 5. The Legislative Committee was adopted and it also became an integral part of the bill. So now I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Areas and Courts and we also have to have a half majority of all MPs 76. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 118 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 31 abstentions and 10 against, so the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90021	We are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, second reading, P.Z. Number 208. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by representative Dario Zurovec. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Re-respected Secretary of State Josip Salapic, first Amendment No. 1 of MPs Daria Zurovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90022	The amendment is not accepted. The provision of Article 1 of the final draft law in the section relating to Article 25(4) of the applicable law provides for a solution to the situation in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, not propose any candidate to the Croatian Assembly and that solution shall apply to any repeated procedure for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. In that context, the proposed provision is excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90023	I don't see a respected MP named Zurovec, so we're gonna have to vote on that. We're going to the amendments, we can continue or we'll continue with the jumps, this one is now going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. First Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90024	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90025	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90026	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90027	And these are amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90028	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 208. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Dario Zurovec. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. 1st Amendment MP Dario Zurovec, as I said the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We have two amendments to the Legislative Committee, both accepted and became an integral part of the final draft law, so I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, once again we need a half majority of all MPs 76. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 122 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 22 abstentions, 23 against, and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90073	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Attorney's Office, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 210. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, State Secretary Josip Salapic, once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90074	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90075	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90076	Final proposal for a law amending the Law of the Areas and the headquarters of the State Attorneys, second reading, P.Z. No. 210, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During its statement on amendments, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee on Law and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. And here we need 76 votes, so I am now voting on the final draft law amending the law of the areas and the seats of the state's attorney's office. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 121 MPs and MPs voted, 85 is in favour, 30 abstentions and 6 against. In this way, the Act amending the Law of the Areas and the headquarters of the State's attorneys. Report on the effects of the implementation of the measures provided for in the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-1 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 September to 31 December 2021. The applicant is the government, the debate is closed. Before we go to vote on the conclusion we have a request for a break, colleague Pavliček please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90701	Dear President, we are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to once again warn of a burning problem that plagues primarily the parents of kindergarten children. Namely, due to frequent isolation of kindergarten children, parents are forced at a monthly level of 5, 10, and parents with more children and 20 working days spend on sick leave which is an additional financial blow to their families especially when we are in a time when energy prices rise drastically, where the price of food products and services increases at a daily level. We believe, and since it has been scientifically proven that there is no need for self-insulation of kindergarten children because they are very rarely ill, and if they suffer primarily from employees within the kindergarten, not children. Therefore, this measure should be abolished or, at the very least, shortened the time of isolation and thus, facilitate normal financial functioning for parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90702	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. 293b, we will continue then and, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I will give the following conclusion: A report on the effects of the implementation of measures and the Law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases during the Covid-19 outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 September to 31 December 2021. Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 124 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 47 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home working body. Final draft law supplementing the Central Insurance Register Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 201 The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 122 MPs and MPs voted, 115 for, 7 abstentions, and thus passed the Law on Supplements to the Central Insurance Register Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90985	I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes in order to warn us once again that this law actually accepts Croatia to put the interests of large banks in foreign ownership ahead of the interests of domestic economy and domestic industries that no recovery mechanisms are meant for if it comes into trouble. The exact opposite of what some have convinced themselves, the HDZ assured them of the 1% guaranteeed deposit fund is no guarantee that it will be enough for their recovery if the banks get into trouble. However, this seems to select those banks that will become too big to fail, the chosen ones are chosen to get taxpayers' money if the resolution fund is not enough to resuscitate the banks to which we have already witnessed in the late 1990s when Croatia publicly rescheduled banks with 56 billion kuna to sell the bank to foreigners for a 4 times lower price. And this law also allows banks to not be nationalised if they are remedied through public funds. All to maintain the management policy of these banks, and it is in total contrast to domestic development interests of domestic economy and the population because banks primarily credit import consumption by borrowing the population rather than production for needs. We will actually reject this law because it does not guarantee any security for the social majority but only for foreign banks and please give us insight how someone voted under this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u90986	Thank you very much. I ask the secretary of the plenary session of Bucharest to ensure and individually determine who voted. So I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 122 MPs and deputies voted, 107 for, 14 abstentions and 1 against, so we passed the Law by amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 179, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 121 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 27 abstentions, 17 against, thus passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91241	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is true 9 and 30, so we will begin with today's work and the first point as announced will be the declaration of amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel Nuclear Power Plant Krško, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 178. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Kresho Beljak. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. First Amendment No. 1st representative of the Whites.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment No. Article 1 5. Unacceptable. The proposal for an amendment is not in line with the practice and principles of the International Nuclear Energy Agency, which separates civil and military use of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91243	Thank you very much. There are no colleagues of the white man. We'll have to vote on that. Amendment No. 2nd of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91244	Yes, Amendment No. Article 2 Seven, unacceptable. The proposal for an amendment does not comply with the practice and principles of the International Nuclear Energy Agency, which separates civil and military use of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91245	There are no colleagues of the white man, so we're gonna have to vote on that, too. Amendment No. 3rd of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91246	Amendment No. Article 3 10th unacceptable. An explanation, the amendment proposal would increase the administrative burden on all sent bodies, which is not meaningful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91247	A colleague of the Whites is missing, and we will have to vote on that amendment as well as Amendment No. 4th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91248	Amendment No. Article 4 10th unacceptable. The proposal for an amendment cannot be implemented and would affect the reduction of the value of the fund as the cost of insurance would be more than the annual contribution itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91249	There is no representative of the Whites, so we'll have to vote on that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91250	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel nuclear power plants Krško, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 178, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Kresho Beljak. We have spoken of them earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the government does not accept. Let's go in turn, first amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Three, same agent, government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the Fourth Amendment, re-legislator Beljak, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The number of votes needed has not been obtained, so we move to a vote on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The vote was voted by 120 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 9 abstentions, 35 against and thus passed the law. The proposal for a decision to declare the month of March with a month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous, with 121 votes for a decision to declare the month of March with a month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91783	And now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the report on the request to call a state referendum on the citizens' initiative Let's decide together and the request for a state referendum on the citizens' initiative is a great deal of headquarters. The applicant is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and the Most Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, the Honored Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go. Amendment number 1 first. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee does not accept this amendment. In fact, we voted on the amendment in substance in the conclusion proposed by the SDP Club and that was the first conclusion we voted on at the session. We rejected it for reasons because we believe this is a solution to determine the number and validity of the signature for all, this one invites the government of the Republic of Croatia to do the part. Today, as a committee, we met again today, and we set the same proposal again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91785	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91786	Thank you. To repeat the material, today is a new day. So, the practice of the Croatian Parliament by 2021 was to assign the government to count the signatures. And as a rule, there was no big dispute over whether the government correctly counted the signatures, I would say primarily because the number of signatures that taught in general was much greater than was required, until the last time it turned out to be controversial in this, in the "The Truth of Istanbul" initiative and the other one, that now, not to, now, do not advertise them further "People decide" where the number of signed submissions was needed to call a referendum and, of course, there are certain disputed situations left, although we, which is also easy to check, voted for a report sent by the government, HS, but the fact is that in this case, the government is one of the parties in the process, because in the rule of reference, when the government does not want to implement something because the government wants to implement something, so there would be no need for a referendum. In fact, the government itself referred to this practice as perhaps not the best when it proposed in the law that the DIP would do so in the future. HS accepted the government's proposal, and he acknowledged that this practice was not exactly the best and should therefore continue according to the new practice he had accepted by accepting the first reading of the referendum law and borrowing the DIP as an independent body to count, to count the signatures. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91787	Amendment No. 2. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91788	The Committee does not accept with an explanation as it has been for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91789	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91790	After we proposed this to change the subject's count, we now proposed to define the time limit in which the number of signatures should end them. Otherwise, we'll have constant pressure, and if I were a colleague, Petrova, I would also be doing it on the government or on the DIP, but it'll probably be on the government when it's finished counting the signatures, the more government officials themselves rush the initiators of the referendum to hand over the signatures. However, I don't see any sense in that, you'd be handing over the signatures until the council is in session, so they'd be standing in a warehouse in the assembly, better standing in a warehouse with you than in a warehouse in the assembly. If the deadline that we, no, no, said Kujundzic that you scanned the signatures. That's one pretty wise one, but I'm not sure how proper practice is. So, as far as the deadline is concerned, if 30 days are a little bit, you could accept the amendment in the modified form to be 45, to be 60, to be 90 or to be 4 years, so by the end of the term it counts one by one each day, but it is necessary to indicate the deadline, therefore moreover, the new one that HS accepted in the first reading is indicated. So our amendments were proof of the extraordinary love and trust of the government because we proposed everything the government itself suggested in the referendum law. So we wanted to give the opportunity to show on, for the first time, whether new legal solutions would be better than those so far and instead of the government and the parliamentary majority of the constituencies accepting our outstretched hand, they didn't decide a little bit of folded hand so they wouldn't accidentally propose under the new law, who knows what would have occurred to us. We're looking for Mr. President's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91791	And Amendment No. 3. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91792	The Committee does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91793	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91794	Thank you. In this amendment, we suggested that one parliamentary commission, a supervisory body that would consist of three members of the opposition and four members of the majority, I think well that you did not accept, who knows what it would be like, to control, to control, to do one supervisory, monitoring, or how popular among lovers of the most important side things in the world of football would be to say var, so that we have one, one body that will judge in dispute situations in order not to be able to admit this signature, and you shouldn't have, you didn't admit this signature, and you should have, this other one will probably be more. It was our proposal, but the government and this is not, or the parliamentary majority has not accepted it either. So you don't want an independent body to count the signatures, you don't want to put a deadline, you don't want anyone to control the ones that count the signatures. Which can go wrong, which can go wrong when, when all the control mechanisms that parliament can have in that sense, and the DIP is a mechanism of Parliament control because it chooses the parliament members of the DIP by agreement between the HDZ and the SDP, as the Mostoves like to say, again, what is much better than a colleague of Petrov's agreement with himself or don't give God to you, so in this sense, I am very sorry that we won't be able to remove any doubts and in the number of signatures for this referendum, so we seem to be playing this out as a party of preferences if any of you know it. Sometimes we're together with them to bring you down, and sometimes we have to take them down with you, and sometimes we're alone against everyone. It seems to me that in this case we are alone against everyone and that's why we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91795	1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91796	The Committee does not accept this amendment as well as for the previous amendments, since the Committee has found that there is no legal basis for the identification of the number of signatures and their validity to ask the DIP which is an independent body and in the DIP Act does not have such powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91797	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91798	Your Honor, I'm going to say first that we're looking for a mandatory vote on this. I have to correct you, so DIP in this case when we have on one side the possibility that the government is counting signatures and that it can do DIP, the DIP is less burdened with certain let's call them memories. Why am I telling you this? You should be the one to make it possible for people to have absolutely no insinuations and no wrong speculation. Why? Because you're the main reason in the last few years that people are accusing you of stealing the referendums and you should stop it. I don't see where the problem is if you come and tell the State Election Commission and yet your members are there, you suggested them, here's your count. No, that's what the government's gonna count. Why? What you're afraid of. Then when we asked for the last time to see all this as you say it would happen today, we asked your colleague, Josipa Rimac, who is currently in custody and Lovra Kuštević, who is also accused, the perfect tandem, of which we asked for all the invalid signatures. You know what we've received from our insights, even though we've been promised in public here in the assembly as you promise in public today, our signatures have been given to us. You guys were making fun of each other. And that's why we're looking for the State Election Commission because we don't trust you and you have to understand that the people don't trust you. You can make one trust, but you don't have it right now because you've lost it for a reason. Of course. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote on this? You're asking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91799	Amendment number 2. The Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91800	The Committee shall not accept with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91801	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91802	Dear colleague, we asked you to clearly specify the time period and time limits for you to count the signatures. All we've seen since yesterday's debate, so since we've submitted the signatures has been stalling and avoiding and losing and volunteering any control mechanism from the hands of the government to the hands of the government. You do not want a DIP, you do not want to define the time limit. Let's be honest with people if you have the opportunity as president of the Assembly Committee to give a conclusion to the government that within 30 days he has to count the signatures. You have that option. And these people sitting here who are going to vote today that you suggested it and that they voted that government across the street from Mark's square would have to do it. That's what you can do. The real question for citizens today in Croatia is why don't you want to do it? Why don't you want to count the signatures within a reasonable period of time? Why don't you want to finally meet the citizens who asked you for a referendum? Why are you running away from the citizens? That's the question. And that's what you're doing right now and that's what you have to say right here. you can get away with the procedure we follow the protocols, you're you, you're the one writing those procedures and protocols, you suggest them as you suggested the other day, you vote them today and you do them. It's very important that citizens know that today. You suggested there was no deadline and therefore there will be no referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91803	Thank you very much, so you're asking for a vote, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91804	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91805	Okay. That concludes our statement on the amendments. Before we move on to the next item since it seems to me that we will end up significantly 12 hours ago when the vote is announced, I suggest that if you agree that the free speeches are done after we're done with the debate on the next item. So since it seems to me that if we get there, of course, this one seems to me that no one is against it, at least I don't see that anyone is against it, so I ask you to inform your colleagues from your clubs, friendly clubs, coalition clubs, anything that we're going to be able to do at the end of this point, so before, if we end this point of course at a reasonable time, as we seem to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91806	Report on the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Let's decide together’ and a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Enough of headquarters’. The applicant is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and the Most Representatives' Club. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We'll vote on the amendments first, then. You want to take a break first? You got it. Here, then let's go with the demands. First up, fellow Miletic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91807	Thank you, dear president of HS. It was very important that I speak before the vote because I have two directions to this speech. One is to explain to the Croatian public what is happening and another to appeal to your fellow ruling conscience. I believe I truly believe you can vote on your own conscience properly. So let's explain it to another citizen. We have the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and it is he who has in his hands and scissors and skirts and you have the opportunity to really spark democratic processes at the highest standard, you have the opportunity to give Croatian citizens a referendum. There's nothing to be afraid of, 410,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia want a referendum. We asked you three things. 30 days. With today's vote, you will make it possible to be up to the next Stepinchev, and votes may be counted to the next Stepinchev. We begged you, independent observers. You made it possible, thank you for that, although I feel like a high school class teacher when I was commending my students for learning well, so there's nothing to praise them about, so here but here, thank you for making independent observers available and not allowing an independent DIP body to count votes. There would really be everyone safe, any Croatian citizen would be safe. So, please once again, I appeal to your conscience, let's not be afraid of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, let's not be afraid of the Croatian people. We provide a referendum to the people and let them be as many in our society as possible, the government that fears its people is not worthy of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91808	The apartment is approved. He will now address and explain the request for a break from his colleague Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91809	Dear President, I ask for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats, but for the benefit of all of us, and especially the ruling ones, the same break would be good for them because we have here something which is at least a crisis of consistency, and it could unfortunately escalate into the crisis of the ruling here in Croatia. On the one hand, we have conclusions regarding a referendum that trusts the government to verify the signatures, and on the other hand, we have a government that checks the signatures at least in a proposal for a referendum that passed the first reading, which trusts the DIP. The issue is then both in the future and in the future package of government measures related to the prevention of inflation and price growth, whether or not the parliamentary majority will grant the subport to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91810	The apartment is approved. Here, I see we have a third request, that's colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91811	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10 minute break to send a message to all Croatian citizens once again that the referendum is a form of direct citizens' decision in the conduct of state authorities. It is therefore particularly important and important that this procedure preceding the referendum be brought into line with the Constitution. As constitutional and referendum practices have been established from previous referendums and pre-referendum activities, which have been approved by the Constitutional Court, the precedent that we would set by the opposition parties or part of opposition parties in HS, and which the precedent does not agree either with the referendum law or with the current constitutional practice, could happen, in order to just reverse the question of such an HS decision, in fact, to further extend the referendum and make it in as long a period as possible. It is therefore in our best interest to carry out the procedure for calling a referendum in Croatia on the basis of current constitutional practices and referendum practices. So, Mr. Miletic, you didn't suggest that the HDZ Club and I personally, and you, after that, should also be included in the vote-counting verification of votes and representatives of civil initiatives, and that is in our best interest. As far as the metrics are concerned, Mr. President, this referendum goes after Covid to be abolished, that's clear to everyone. We could almost pin the attribute of the anti-vaxer referendum on him. We urge all parliamentary parties in HS to call without delay Our fellow citizens to be vaccinated and that's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The best way to respond to this great challenge [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's right in front of us. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91812	The apartment is approved. Now, here comes my colleague, Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91813	At the address of Mr. Branko Bačić, I invite all Croatian citizens to split. Thank you. But that's not the subject, the subject is the report of the Constitution Committee, and that report has been vaccinated from logic. So all those practices that the government says is not good, which the government is proposing changes to the law, which HS adopted in the first reading, you are now proposing everything your government has said is not good. They suggested that the numbers, that the vote numbers the DIP, we suggested you refuse, to set a deadline, we suggested you refuse, we suggest control by parliamentary MPs, 4 ruling 3 oppositions. Maybe you don't trust your four, but we'd trust our three. We have suggested that a deadline be set as proposed by the government and now that you continue everything about what you said yourself is not right, the logical question is what can go wrong? Everything. So the numbers of those who alone are one side of the process because if the government wanted to listen to those who signed it, then they would have done it themselves. The deadline is so high that it raises suspicions like that, that retaining the Moscow signature has caused government suspicion. Control, we've already had what's wrong with this in the last referendum and it's left behind by the tails. It doesn't answer that our bridge colleagues are always saying that something wasn't right because they're going to take space from us and they're going to take space from you. So, we want a country where it's turn, a country where it won't be left, it won't be left behind, there won't be room for someone to say the referendum was stolen. And let me finish this one more time, you people are inoculating yourself, and at least you don't inject yourself with logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91814	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bacic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91815	I thank Mr. President, he's hurt. 238. Rules of Procedure, counterpart Bauk falls into his own trap, seeking, asking that, asking the HS to act for the first time in the event of a vote being counted against the law and against its own constitutional practice so far, Namely, I'll just finish it. [[Agreement: colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91816	Here's the time, it's time, time's up. Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91817	We do not have in the ruling majority, we have no intention of undoing the will of the citizens as he did with the amendment of the law... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91818	Comrade Bačić, please, you will receive a colleague Bačić, please sit down, you will receive a warning from your colleague Bačić Just a little co-worker and co-workers. [[Blowback from bench: And subtracting words]] A fellow Bačić gets a warning because it is not wise to fall into his own trap, but it is not against the Rules of Procedure, so anyone can do so if he wants to. So you get a warning. Now my colleague Bauk may also get a warning, and perhaps not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91819	Branko was supposed to get two notices about this and about time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91820	No, you were yelling, you were yelling, so it was, is, is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91821	Then give me back five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91822	Come on, we can get the time back. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91823	238, I may have fallen into the government's trap, but not into my own trap because the government has proposed what we suggest to you and it is not the opposite of the law because the law does not prescribe it. So if we were to reach our conclusions, it would be just as legal as these are yours, only our proposal is better than yours, and that's what you've admitted to the government's trap that you've fallen into from the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91824	Of course you're getting a warning because this was a replica on, in fact, a replica of a colleague of Bačić's. Now a colleague of the coat of arms has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91825	Thank you, Mr. President, and I would like to thank you in advance for your warning. He's injured, of course. 238, but this is still about insulting the dignity of all of us who have given ourselves a little effort and read the Law on Referendum and the Law on DIP, and we know that under this law DIP has the power to carry out all the actions in the referendum. If some things have been wrong by now or could have been better, then it is the obligation of all of us to make it right for our colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91826	Thank you, comrade Grbin. A fellow coat of arms, also a warning. There's going to be a colleague of Jelkovac's, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91827	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow coat of arms, injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it demeans us in a way that says we haven't read anything. I'm surprised to you that you're a professional lawyer, and here you want us to act on something that isn't legal yet, because the law has not been passed. We have defined ourselves for what is now in force, and you seek only partly what is in the referendum law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91828	Thank you, colleague Jelkovac, you get a warning, this is also a continuation of replication. Let's now go to the next request for an explanation of the break, colleague Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91829	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. You see this debate and now this outwitting on both sides of the assembly may seem funny and fun, but the situation is quite serious about the behavior of the ruling ones, I would say generally political elites that are quite alienated from ordinary citizens. What could that possibly lead to? In Canada, this can lead to truckers blocking the country, literally the capital has been blocked for a long time because people rightly rebel against measures that have been shown in time to make no sense. No matter what we think of them, counterpart Bačić is calling for practice in Croatia, this practice so far as the referendum is not good. So I have no idea that people would have the right to trust their own institutions when we have the experience we have. The number itself, according to the new census, is very different from what is required of the number of signatures, so it does not correspond to reality, and we need to trust you very much that everything will be fair and proper. So, once again, I will say that in principle it is necessary to enable, facilitate referendums not to make it difficult under very difficult conditions of winter, this number has been collected, so people have volunteered throughout Croatia to make it possible and now it is in some way being questioned, bought time and so on. I have not yet heard a coherent, coherent explanation why no deadline has been set. It could have been, it wasn't according to the right of the people. rebellion and doubt, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] suspected of outcomes. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91830	Are there any more interested? If he doesn't, then we'll go to the amendments. First we're going to vote on amendments to the SDP Club, there are three, and the board doesn't accept them, so the Proposer doesn't accept them, so we're going in a row. 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 1st Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the third amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the 2 amendments to the Most Representatives' Club, and both committees are not accepting it, so we have to vote. Amendment number one. It's the Most Representatives' Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the second amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the collected signatures of voters and requests for the call of a state referendum of the citizens' initiative.Let us decide together by act number of Classes: 013-02/22-01/01, Manual No: 361-05 of 24 January 2022 and to enable the monitoring of the process of verifying the number and credibility of voters collected by at least two representatives of that citizens' initiative and to give the report on the verification of delivery carried out to the Croatian Parliament. It is also called on by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with Article 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the collected signatures of voters and requests for the call of a state referendum of the citizens' initiative It is sufficient that the President of the Croatian Parliament has delivered the organisational committee of the citizens' initiative enough of the stoning of the act under the number of Classes: 013-02/22-01/01 Manual number: 361-22-04 as of 24 January 2022 and to allow the monitoring of the process of verifying the number and credibility of voters collected by at least two representatives of that citizens' initiative and to give the report on the implementation of the check of delivery to the Croatian Assembly. It is also called upon by the government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures were collected in accordance with Article 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I note that 122 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 13 abstentions and 32 against, have thus reached conclusions as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The club of the representatives of the Most suggests a meeting of the next conclusion. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver to the National Election Commission all signatures of voters who, who have been collected by the citizens' initiative We decide together and the citizens' initiative Enough of the centrocracy to check the number and credibility of the signatures collected, as well as whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with the provisions of Article 8c. The law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of the state authority of local and regional (regional) self-government, and all within 30 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 43 were in favour, for 77 against, and thus did not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91899	We now have a point with a and b. Under a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and under b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 112 MPs and MPs, 87 for, 25 abstentions and we have reached a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Secondly, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 19 abstentions and 21 against and a decision has been taken to appoint part of the Board of Directors of the Scientific and Higher Education Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91900	Here we go, then to the next point, and that is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Subjects, first reading, P.Z.E. No 241 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91901	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the General Application Act shall ensure the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 2019/1020 of the European Parliament and of the Council on market surveillance and conformity of products and in the part in which they apply to the subject matter of general application. The legislative proposal lays down the competent authorities for the implementation of the laws of the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate and defines their tasks and obligations. Furthermore, the proposal makes it clear that the concepts within the meaning of the law are defined and the concept is extended with new concepts such as materials and objects that come into contact with human consumption water, a product that poses a risk, a product that poses a serious risk, an end-user, a recall, a withdrawal, a provider of ordering services, a product traceability and a good manufacturing practice. Furthermore, in order to protect human health, the legislative proposal details the general conditions that must be met by general application in such a way that only a healthy or consistent subject of general application can be placed on the market. correct with regard to sensory properties, type and content of harmful substances, product information, purposes, composition and microbiological correctness and which cannot cause adverse effects on human health and the environment. All entities in business with general application matters responsible for placing such products on the market shall be obliged to verify that the subject of the general application of the obligations to produce a eu declaration of conformity or technical documentation is subject to verification. In addition, only those items of general use which have a prominent notification of the product or declaration may be placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia and must have information on the composition, clearly stated for the purpose of the product unless the purpose of the product is seen from its appearance and highlighted warnings for the safe use of the product. The legislative proposal prohibits the restriction, advertising and presentation of general use items in a way that could lead consumers to be fooled about the real composition, characteristics and purposes of the subject-matter of general use, and defines a provision that the medicinal properties, prevention, therapy and/or treatment of the disease should not be attributed to them. Smoking accessories are also prohibited. As regards the implementation of the control system, which includes the supervision of the production and placing on the market of the subject-matter of the general proposal, it is prescribed that the entity shall notify the competent inspection authority within 72 days of its knowledge or reasonable suspicion that it has produced or placed on the market the subject of general application which does not meet the requirements of health law or conformity, and shall ensure that such products are withdrawn from the market, as well as from end-users. Furthermore, the legislative proposal extends the powers of the competent inspection authority to carry out market surveillance in order to verify the correctness or conformity of the subject-matter of the general application in such a way that the competent inspector has the right to purchase products on the internet under covert identity and to give them for examination in an authorised laboratory for the purposes of inspection and official controls. In addition, in order to monitor more effectively the health regularity of the general application subject matter on the market in the Republic of Croatia, that legislative proposal defines the competence of the State Inspectorate for the construction and implementation of the general application monitoring programme based on the risk assessment in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2019/1020 and according to rules governing official food controls. The legislative proposal also regulates provisions in which authorised laboratories are obliged to the State Inspectorate as a market surveillance body with each of the examination reports according to which the model of the general use of health is incorrect or incompatible with the design and risk assessment of the product. The proposed legislative proposal also provides that the border inspector of the State Inspectorate shall monitor the sanitary technical and hygiene conditions of the general application of the procedure for the approval of customs warehouses, which shall issue certificates of compliance with the prescribed conditions. The legislative proposal also lays down that the border inspector of the State Inspectorate will not allow the release of the subject matter of general use in the event of the establishment of a health failure of the product and that the importer has a period of 4 days to coordinate the identified deficiencies. The proposed legislative proposal also lays down provisions concerning the powers of the competent inspectors of the State Inspectorate to improve the conduct of administrative and infringement measures. We propose the adoption of this legislative proposal following all of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91902	Thank you. There's more replicas to your exposure. The first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91903	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, any legislative provision and amendment leading to the greatest protection of our citizens' health is of course welcome and commendable. I am interested in how many authorised laboratories in the Republic of Croatia are currently, how many people are actually engaged in the state inspectorate of these controls or how many will be engaged in surveillance, monitoring, etc.? Do you expect that by applying this law, there will be even more control over inspections, do we actually have enough people and how much money is provided for in the State Inspectorate, the annual inspectorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91904	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91905	Thank you very much. So we have 26 authorized laboratories, and so are our public health institutions and certain means of private laboratories. It's authorized by the Ministry of Health. The State Inspectorate has a number of sanitary inspectors. This, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, determines their number, and we have enough of them. What I think is important and I think it will significantly increase supervision given that we are in the crown pandemic, we have an increasing number of online purchases, and with this we will get the possibility that the sanitary, sanitary inspector of the state inspectorate as a secret buyer buys something over the internet that in official control, if something is wrong, it is then paid to, to, at the expense of the manufacturer, and there is the same rule that will be brought about financing within the scheduled period and the funds are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91906	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91907	Dear, the law is a welcome regulation that will better regulate the area and protect the health of our consumers, as consumers in this pandemic time increasingly use Internet shopping as you have mentioned. I would ask you, given that the law is, in fact, the transposition of the EU regulation into our legislation, and this should have been done already last year. My question is, how come it's been waiting so long given the health threat that apparently exists?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91908	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91909	Well, I can't say that, respected MPs can't say that it's been waiting long, so European directives are automatically applied in Croatia, in the Croatian legal system as part of the EU. We have been harmonising completely not only us in health care there are certain, certain legal changes which were also made by the Ministry of Economy that we have coordinated that we can better, better control the system and better protect consumers, I do not see any delay in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91910	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91911	Thank you. Dear Secretary, I would ask you for a follow-up on my colleague means we are already late with the application of the regulation within a significant time frame, but in the final provisions, it says that the ministry will have a deadline of one year for making a new regulation, the State Inspectorate for 6 months, so that until the full application of these amendments and the addition of the vote will mean another year in the second reading, so we can expect it to be in the middle of 2023, if not later, it depends when it comes to another reading. In addition, business entities are given only 60 days to comply with the provisions of this Regulation. Amendments and additions to this law, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91912	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91913	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian. I repeat again means it's not about any significant delay, the rules will be harmonised in time, so they're also about the Ministry and the State Inspectorate, when there's a second reading automatically with it, soon afterwards the rules will come into force and I don't see any problem. Subjects also, so there is first reading, comes second reading everyone is informed and we do not expect any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91914	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91915	Thank you. 238, so first Rules of Procedure 238, insulting parliamentary representatives, i.e. better said demeaning. Demeaning if the question is why a year's time for a rulebook then the answer can't be the rules will be as soon as the vote of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91916	Please, please, you can't speak this, please read the Rules of Procedure at last, I know that you are in your first session now, but read the Rules of Procedure you would understand that it can't be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica you get a warning because the one you ask can answer however you like. The same way you do when you're standing there, and someone sets up a replica for you, you can answer whatever you want. So I have to give you a warning. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91917	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my question will still be tied to the labs. So we have, or the law provides for three types of labs. One species where the testing laboratory of the manufacturer itself for the control of its own products is another authorised laboratories for the purposes of inspection and official controls and third reference laboratories are all clear and there is no dilemma. Now, you, through this amendment and the addition of the law in the provision of Article 20(2), say exceptionally of paragraph 1 of this Article if it is to demonstrate the parameters for which there is no official laboratory sample will be sent to a laboratory that is qualified to carry out the sample analysis. I'm curious why you didn't tie it to the article's provision and say exactly which of these three types of labs you're going to be in, probably in your own not because it's your own guy who owns the manufacturer for his own products, so I'm wondering why that You're not and you're going to be the labs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91918	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91919	Thank you very much, there are several methods, certain laboratories are accredited, they need to be accredited for certain methods of testing and then sent to where, if certain laboratories do not have, they are not accredited for certain methods of testing will be sent elsewhere exclusively from these other authorised ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91920	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91921	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State is one very important law for our health, and it is especially important that we comply with EU regulations, and it is important that everything that comes from third countries is as controlled as what is produced in Croatia or in the EU. What I'm interested in as a question, we know that when children are young that almost everything that comes into their hands ends up in their mouths, I see that children's toys are listed here, I wonder if I don't know the type objects, the chair, the kid's chair, the same way, and they're not connected to water and food, they're not children's toys, they're subject to the same control as children's toys related to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91922	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91923	Thank you, Your Honor, it is prescribed in the law that objects, objects of general use, are objects in contact with water, with food, these are children's toys, cosmetics, all cosmetics, detergents and other things. These things you've been saying aren't listed as objects of general use.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91924	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State should be told here when amending and supplementing the General Application Act that the existing legal framework so far has provided a legal framework for the supervision of production and placing on the market of general use items. However, not good enough for new consumer habits in these modern times and increasing online purchases, our inspectors did not have the possibility of sampling as false customers. These amendments and additions to the law provide sanitary inspectors with the opportunity to move forward with consumer times and habits and extend the area of surveillance from physical to digital with the possibility of buying online therefore with a secret identity the area of surveillance and monitoring will be able to perform on the internet, which has not been the case so far. And fellow Peace will also be affected by the control of children's toys.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91926	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91927	Thank you very much. So as I said before, toys are one of the main things, toys are the main items of the product of general use. This is what we consider the most significant newspaper that sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate have the possibility, have the possibility to be secret customers on, through Internet sales and send these products to the competent laboratory and run further procedures. This is what we consider the most significant newspaper in this law, and this has been a previously regulated area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91928	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You can return to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club respected Anja Shimprag's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues, this bill primarily seeks to ensure compliance with European legislation. In particular, it shall endeavour to ensure the implementation of the 2019 Regulation on market surveillance and conformity of products and on the amendment of the Directive and of the accompanying Regulations in the part in which it applies to the subject matter of general application. Following the media inscriptions of the last few days, and finally and conducted public consultation, we saw that we only have one single comment aimed only at the small segment of the law, which is clear that the legislative proposal did not attract enough attention. This is not the first time that we have brought this law into line with European legislation because we have also been amending and supplementing the legislation in force since 2013 twice in order to bring national legislation into line with EU rules in the field of general application and in order to implement the reform measure of the National Reform Programme for 2018, where the aim is to ensure a prerequisite for the start of work of the State Inspectorate or the takeover of inspection controls from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health in the State Inspectorate. Of course, these amendments and additions are not limited solely to the harmonisation of European legislation, so that, among other things, the tasks and obligations of the competent authorities are defined and the concepts within the meaning of that law are more clearly defined. Thus, the new Article 2 clearly defines the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health, which the State Inspectorate has given the Ministry the position of its own roof body, while the State Inspectorate will oversee and control the implementation of the law. However, although the definition of concepts in law and sublaws is generally a mere formality, I think that this should also be taken into account, and the definition of what it is in this legislative proposal is commendable because it is understandable for us, too, who are not professions. This is now the subject matter of general use: materials and objects that come into direct contact with food and objects of broad consumption, as well as materials and objects that come into contact with water for human consumption. Also, when reading in more detail what is considered to be wide-ranging items, this law affects each individual. In fact, in direct contact with food comes a whole range of different materials and objects made of these materials. Among them are the most common metals. The items that usually come in contact with food are dishes, accessories, equipment and appliances and packaging used in food business. In addition, recycled, biodegradable, active, intelligent materials can come into direct contact with food, each of which has its own function. Intelligent materials monitor the state of the packaged content, e.g. the temperature and moisture while actively releasing active ingredients in the food to extend the time limit itself. There is no material and object including glass that is inert, completely inert when it comes to direct contact with food. Food and packaging material or object are always in interaction. The most common result is the transfer of compounds to food, i.e. migration and release from materials or objects to food or vice versa. In some cases, this may pose a health risk to consumers. So, let's say the wrong choice of food can cause packaging to move into food, but also from food to packaging. Migration results in changes in food quality, loss of taste and smell, which can ultimately be life-threatening. In order to obtain information on the purpose of packaging and to reduce the possibility of migration, it is necessary to take a good look at the declaration of the product that prescribes the conditions of food and drink storage and the way in which the packaging is handled. For this reason, it is very important that products have to have a prominent product notice, i.e. that the declarations on the products are correct, and something is also mentioned in this legislative proposal. Unfortunately, we rarely know that the declarations are correct, but they are only in German, so I wonder if the form prescribed by the law is satisfied. For this reason, I believe that Article 7 of the Law amending Article 6(1) of the current law should be complemented in a way that reads as follows. General uses placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia must have a prominent notice on the product, a declaration in Croatian with data prescribed by specific regulations governing certain types of subject-matter. Furthermore, the legislative proposal details the general conditions which must be met by general application, control of production and placing on the market. Therefore, from the consumer's perspective, it is very important to prescribe a ban on the labelling, advertising and presentation of objects of general use in a way that could lead consumers to the delusion of the real composition, characteristics and purposes of the subject-matter of general use, and to define a provision that cannot be attributed to the same medicinal properties, prevention, therapy or treatment of the disease. Also, advertising of smoking accessories is prohibited. However, what is even more important in the law is the provision of infringements and fines which are in different amounts, so these prohibitions should not remain a dead letter on paper, and the negative situations in practice should be adequately punished. I only hope that, in addition to the repressive nature of the sentence, there will be a preventive line and that the penalties will indeed be applied. The legislative proposal places particular emphasis on ensuring the preconditions for the application of EU legislation, which regulates the scope of the subject matter of general application, but at the same time it is a law that will apply in practice almost daily. Since the amendments in question and the additions to this Act should improve this very important area, the SDSS Representatives Club will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91930	The next will be the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, and the Honorable representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91931	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have before us a law that is in line with the regulations or directives of the EU or the Commission and the EU of Parliament. We should commend this harmonisation and how the system in Europe, i.e. RAPEX, is working, a system of rapid alarming for dangerous non-food products that has so far withdrawn a larger amount of products from our market. So our biggest problem is that we during this pandemic period, not only us but the whole world, have turned to increased shopping on the Internet. We can find things on the Internet, and this Law allows our inspectors to buy anonymously so that we put them in labs, of course, it's very important how much labs we're going to have, what they're going to be, what conclusions we're going to draw from it, and how many inspectors we're going to have, but this is certainly one positive regulation and we would like to know, of course, whether we're increasing the number of inspectors given that size of the market we have. So it's not just food products that are stored in some plastic or cardboard boxes, there's a whole series of toys for children, but also a whole series of products used by infants and children up to 3 years of age for eating or sleeping or tranquilizing. For this reason, we need to regularly monitor what is on such a market, we are important to know that some of the products are dangerous and that, as soon as possible, put them on this system that we certainly support, RAPEX, which is excellently organized and it seems to me that a lot of this is coming out of the picture of what is wrong. Also, you are in different cosmetic preparations that come directly into contact with skin and mucous membranes, and people very often do not think about these quality declarations that we do not have enough and should be more for products from the Internet, so in any case, the Social Democrats Club supports this Law and will vote for it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91932	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Maric and respected representative Antolic-Vupra will speak. First honorary representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91933	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is the 3rd novelty of the existing law, we, here, follow the implementation of the EU regulation, we as the SDP Club, of course, will support any legislative proposal that goes towards going to the most secure health of our citizens, namely the distribution of products that this one will satisfy all the conditions or subject to all these legal provisions that protect the health of our fellow citizens. We've already heard that there will be three levels of labs, i.e. three levels of labs, test labs, authorized labs and reference laboratories. Here, we have heard that the authorised laboratory in the Republic of Croatia has 26, the question is whether we have enough people in the State Inspectorate, we expect that, after this regulation, there will still be more controls at the annual level and than those products produced in the Republic of Croatia and shipments from imports. Whether there will be sufficient resources provided for the inspectorate, and when it comes to taking samples via internet sales, so-called A secret buyer, there's one item in this Act, if it turns out that the product is correct, then it goes to the expense of the State Inspectorate, so I'm saying, is there going to be a limit on the financial resources? We hope he doesn't. Just for the sake of our public, let me say what the general subjects of general use are, therefore, materials and objects that come into direct contact with food. In particular, prominent products intended for infants and children under 3 years of age, dude cheaters, etc., materials and objects that come into contact with water for human consumption and objects of broad consumption, therefore different dishes, accessories, equipment and devices for the production of objects of general use, packaging for objects of general use, toys, cosmetic products, detergents and various objects and products that come into direct contact with the skin or mucous membrane and tobacco, tobacco and related products and smoking accessories. It is very important, of course, that only a healthy or consistent subject of general use can be placed on the market, in fact defined in Article. 4 i.e. now in this novelty article. 5. It is important, of course, that each product has a prominent product notice, so a declaration that all our customers should read. There should be clear information on the composition, clearly stated purpose of the product, and it is also important that it prohibits the marking, advertising and presentation of objects of general use which could lead to delusions about the actual composition, characteristics and purpose of the subject, and then prohibits the copying, advertising of medicinal properties to general uses or attribution of means of prevention, treatment and treatment of the disease. We've already discussed this in some previous laws, so I've asked a question, what about those situations where identity theft or fake identity when, say, they take the names of some, here, renowned doctors, and so, then they advertise this one, as if, if, they recommend them, and it's actually identity theft. Energy drinks for children should certainly be banned, the ministry has not yet done anything about it. Furthermore, it is noted here that in the case of testing tobacco products on tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide parameters, laboratories must be accredited. Then aren't these labs accredited? So only for these tobacco products? So I've already asked the question of these internet purchases, so buying products under covert identity, buying costs are borne by the State Inspectorate if the sample is consistent, so we'll see if it's restrictive or not. Also, it is very important for cosmetic products to meet the microbiological parameters of health regularity. As for materials and objects in contact with water for human consumption, much can be read about phthalates, which form the basic component of all plastic packagings, are also used in cosmetic preparations, toys, medical devices and packagings, they interfere with hormonal balance, can also have a negative effect on health and lungs, kidneys and livers, and should not be used in products. Now, how do you avoid phthalates? So for our citizens, so read the declarations and content of the product, be careful with the label smell on the declaration, buy and use only plastics with recycling codes 1, 2 and 5 because codes 3 and 7 contain phthalates and should be used, if possible, certified natural cosmetics. Also, I'm still asking the question of the problem of microplastics in the environment that is all around us, among other things, there's research that there's a lot of it in the sea salt, so there's some kind of task that we can sort of control and what the contents of the microplastics in our Adriatic Sea salt are. Here, on my side, so much will continue with my colleague Barbara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91934	Honorable representative Antolic Vupra on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91935	Honorable present, esteemed secretary, secretary, vice president of the Parliament. So the law ahead of us is harmonising with the EU regulation, I said already that it is one backlog in time, so all those who used products in the meantime, and they were in fact dangerously damaged because the full implementation of this law will actually be made possible only when all the services are formed and the sampling is done on a sufficient number of general uses, that our consumers are actually safer and healthier so that we are again late and therefore challenging the health of our consumers, and consumers are a category of people in Croatia, and we are all, who are in fact the lowest and weakest category of defenses. We have held that position in the EU for many years and only when we apply and change our laws is when it comes from a European level. So Croatia then prescribes the law, but the implementing rules are very late and thus we do not achieve the full effect of protecting the health of our people. It is not surprising, therefore, that low trust is precisely in public authorities because, in the meantime, if you remember, a consumer counsellor who was the main central place where consumers could report their difficulties, their problems, and this counseling facility was abolished because the funding to leave a number in the ministry, which, of course, you have experience with some other numbers, and no one is answering today. Trust remained in associations which citizens today believe most and are not exactly funded by the ministry, either. Trust is then followed by all other institutions, and according to EU statistics, the government is the last in line with the consumer confidence that Croatian citizens therefore have. The consumer empowerment campaign also does not exist. Only 12% of citizens feel that they know their consumer rights well and we are the weakest in the EU. We can have such a law on the table, but the question is how many of our people, our citizens actually know their rights, which actually enables them to control and sample those products that are potentially dangerous how it will change their lives and how it will facilitate their handling of objects of general use. We at the SDP Club will support this Act regardless of what it actually makes too little of a step in this complicated system which is too little informative for our consumers. I would especially like to emphasise that, in front of us, there will be one big goal, which is to introduce the euro into the system. We ourselves will need to defend and diversify prices, and as consumers, we will also have to protect with regulations, with certain laws and regulations, in order to avoid this situation, this new age brings new difficulties in the lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91936	The next club of representatives will be that of CENTRA and GLAS, the respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91937	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us in the first reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on general application items. As the very explanation on the page shows, we are in line with EU directives and as such absolutely those laws that we appreciate are a good step or good help to our fellow citizens we support and we will support this time. I'm going to talk about this law, and I want to discuss it, and I want to make a few points. The first topic is the formal nature. We haven't been getting a single rule on benches lately, and it doesn't look like there are other regulations to be made, some regulations, that these deadlines are 12 months, 6 months, 3 months, but they're right. And absolutely what our legislation allows you to do when you have a legal proposal to do some more detailed things with it. But there's always one but there's three dots. Often these rules define certain things that should be within the law, and the law is not because you are not ready and a little late or you do not want to discuss it in a parliamentary debate. Sometimes it would be good to actually know exactly what stage they're in, whether they're ready, whether they've been through a public debate because Parliamentarians prepare for the debate often and those who prepare for proper views and sublegal acts for the simple reason why they're important. The second topic we want to highlight in this debate is the subject of things that are changing. So this time of the corona really did strengthen online sales. It strengthened the fact that people are getting more ready and more ready on the Internet to buy products that were not before and not because they were ready, but because they were forced to buy. And there's the role of our inspection. And now he says he's going to be a secret buyer, all five, not the first law in which the inspector is called a secret buyer. But let's see how many of them we haven't got answer from the secretary of state how many inspectors we actually have? How many inspectors are working? How many inspectors are dressed? How many inspectors will work on this subject or will be there in their description of jobs twenty-two or twenty-third indent of jobs that do. And that's where we hook up with the labs. So, we have three types of labs that are first-class, as well as tourists changing the provisions of the law I'm going to read to myself not to say something wrong. First they're the ones who are, the test lab that has a manufacturer for its own products. Others are authorized to say for the needs of inspection and official controls and the third are referents. And now in these 26 which was the Secretary of State's answer are all labs. The question is how many we have, the question is how many are authorized and the question is how willing they are to do the job. But first and foremost, the work needs to be done by the inspectors. We have some situations very, very working and very often we transfer a series of things to our inspectors. It seems to me that the time has come for us to try to see other powers that someone else can do, but I don't think this is the law to discuss it. But it's not gonna be good, and it's not good to have that one twenty-two, twenty-third alley sent to some inspector, so if there's time, there's that too. I think this is an extremely important topic. And I'm going to get what I've decided to report on behalf of the club in the first place, you know, you have those laws that cause a great deal of interest and we like to discuss. Everybody's got the kind that goes under the radar and says ok. It's harmony, so everything's fine. This is one of those laws and you see as Vice President of the Parliament we expect these to be over soon, so this is one of those laws. But what has offered me is the provision of Article 7 of the law where he binds himself to the declaration. Which is for one, which is important to us all on the product. We also need to take a look at the duration and declaration first. You can find a time limit on products sometimes. One day at home, I was looking for some kind of deadline just to see if I had been in the fridge for a long time. I went to a lot of trouble to find it, and I finally found it typed on that perforation upstairs, and then I had to try and figure out what the duration was. And we come to the topic of the declaration. The declaration is normally on the product, the way of marking and everything else as it is here, the provision says that it is determined in more detail by some other regulation, but here it is mentioned. I ask you colleagues and colleagues how many of you are able to wear glasses without glasses to read the declaration? At home, I have been increased from a long time ago because I read with him on those old copies from a copy of the catastrian particle plans that were unreadable because they were photocopyed 122 times. So when you get 123 photocopy, you don't see it. I was one day, because I was curious, I was curious about what they wrote on the declaration at home took it up to try to read with an increaser the declaration that was on the product, and it was about some kind of gel. Because I wanted to know what composition it was, it was a cosmetic product. I couldn't read it. And how can you read that at the store? What? I've seen in one store that you have there that someone increased so then you go from product below increased and you watch it. Well, that's not the point. Let's talk about it, let's get on this law and remember that and see it. So, what does it matter to us? It's an important declaration. What's important to us is that we can read that declaration when? When we're buying a product. When it's online sales, I'd say it's simpler here, because you can always get the declaration out, see everything else. But when you buy it, you want to buy something, you want to read that declaration about it, and you can't read it. You can't even come home. And now that siren call is always stronger than anything. Let us remember the debates that have taken place in our space for the last two years with respect to the crown, concerning vaccines, regarding the fact that a good part of our citizens have become vaccine experts, so we know exactly what we want to be vaccinated with, which we do not want to be vaccinated with, we are discussing the composition of the vaccine, why they are harmful, they are not harmful. Well, all of a sudden, there's only one person who wants to be a Pphyser, the other one who wants to be Modern. Someone's not going to Modern anyway. I once thought and said from this pay phone that I had been using one medicine for many years, only now did I realize that for more than ten years I've been using one medicine and now that I've been taking it in the pharmacy, I've first seen that the manufacturer is Pfizer. It didn't occur to me to look at the manufacturer at all. So, when it comes to this, we all get it all of a sudden. How many products, therefore, the word is exactly what this name says, tells me objects of general use. How many people look at what's on that product in the declaration? How much they base what they write is decided to buy one or the other product or is a determining factor of price or appearance or do not know tradition. Somehow I think about it every time I talk about cosmetic products, so shower gels, body milk, milk for I don't know face cream and everything. How much is it decided to buy at the base of the price? How much does it look like? How much I base what is the manufacturer, and how much I base what is written on the declaration. Because I'm sure every product isn't for everyone and it can't be for everyone. To conclude that I don't go too far and in a direction that I don't need to go in. This law will likely not cause much greater interest in reading. This is one of those sets of laws where we basically vote in favour of them somehow, because in it we have a situation that we just rightly show that we are one decent country in which we will have some decent laws. I read three things from this law. First thing, do we have enough labs to do that? The other thing is that we have enough inspectors to take care of it, because when something really happens to us, then everyone takes care of it. And the third thing that would be a message to people no matter what, let's try buying products according to what suits you, try buying products not only in its appearance, and it would be good if we could buy them and base them on what's written on the declaration but the prerequisite is that we can read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91938	The next club of representatives will be the HDZ, according to MP Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91939	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the second paragraph of the fourth subparagraph of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In order to protect human health, this law regulates the concept of the subject of general application, the conditions relating to health law, or conformity, must be met by general application objects. General conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use items, general use control system, systematic laboratory examination to monitor health regularity or conformity of general application, rights, duties and powers of competent authorities in relation to general application cases produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported and placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. This law has been adopted twice in order to bring national legislation in line with EU rules in the field of general application, and to implement the reform measure under the National Reform Programme for 2018 with a view to ensuring a precondition for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate, i.e. to take control of inspection from the jurisdiction of the health ministry in the State Inspectorate. The legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1020 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on market surveillance and product conformity. The proposed law also defines the new provisions of the competent inspection body and controls for the purpose of verifying health regularity, i.e. the conformity which has the right to take samples of general use in production and on the market, and when importing and including the purchase of products on the Internet under covert identity, and we know why they will not, otherwise, deliver it to you if they find out that this is the State Inspectorate including raw materials in the production process and put them under investigation in an authorised laboratory for the purpose of inspection and official controls. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law shall be the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. The concepts used in this law are items of general use: materials and articles that come in direct contact with food, materials and objects that come in contact with water for human consumption, objects of broad consumption, which are from dishes, accessories, packaging, children's toys, cosmetic products, detergents, tobacco, tobacco products, means that come in direct contact with skin or mucous membranes, items for decoration of faces and bodies, jewelry and imitation jewelry. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials and articles defined by the European Community's 2004 regulation, number 1935 and products intended for infants and children under the age of three to facilitate feeding, suckling, calming and sleeping. Only a medically correct, i.e. consistent subject of general application, i.e. correct with regard to sensory properties, type and content, harmful substances, product information, purposes, composition and microbiological correctness where necessary and which cannot cause adverse effects on human health and the environment, and in accordance with this law and regulations governing certain types of subjects of general application. In the context of this law, I will mention what is important for the end-users, Article 7 of general application items placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia must have a prominent notice on the product, a declaration containing the information prescribed by the specific regulations applicable to them. Article 9 of this Article also provides for the prohibition of advertising and presentation of general use subjects in a way that could lead consumers to a delusion of the actual composition, characteristics and purposes of the subject-matter of general application and defines a provision that they should not be attributed to medicinal properties, prevention, treatment and treatment of diseases. Smoking accessories are also prohibited. For violations in the general application cases, sanctions are also provided for, of course, in the range of 500 kuna to 100 000 kuna. This law is comprehensive. The proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club will of course support it. And yet another notice in the European Parliament will be discussed to mark the validity of food products, because there are formulas that confuse consumers who are not clear, such as best to use up or usable up to or above. There's a qualitative difference. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91940	On behalf of the Green-left bloc's club, the respected representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91941	So, it's said quite a bit here, but it's still not a waste to repeat for our citizens who may be following this debate that under that bureaucratic name objects of general use are actually, under that name, objects that surround us in everyday life and, in fact, this law is important to all citizens, which is already said but is not a waste of time. So, all the items that we're in contact with every day I don't know children's toys, then objects that come in direct contact with food, with water, dude cheaters, cosmetic products, detergents and other cleaning agents. And all these products unless they're controlled and they have some harmful element can really be a serious threat to the health of our citizens, all of us and especially our children. An example of work should be remembered so it was not so long ago found toys with toxic ingredients that cause tumours, genetic mutations, hormonal changes, and there were also some ingredients for modelling and child cosmetics that lead to allergies. We remember very clearly, I think we remember the inscriptions on the media that warn them that aphthalates, chemical compounds that are most often in plastic toys can damage as much as asbestos and can lead to the development of a few types of cancers. A significant number of dangerous products are withdrawn from the European market every year. Some estimate is that most of these dangerous products are among toys and products for children. Among other things, they're very threatened by those double-crossers. Let's say we have an example of a toy slime that was produced in China, which was reported in 2019, which wasn't that long ago because of too much pine. Bor is added to these creeps to get the toy on the stretch, however, with the amount of wrinkles is often exaggerated, and this substance can cause digestive disturbances in children. But not only that, but the long-term health effects. Of course, the authorities have withdrawn the product from the market, but here is the example I set in order to further underline the importance of the need for constant rigorous control of the so - called so - called. the subject matter of general application. I see a particular problem in that it is not sufficiently precise and not sufficiently strictly set up in countries that are not yet members of the EU, so they are not necessarily required to comply with its rules. Of course, they do not have a well-developed quality control system, so, for example, in BiH or Serbia, toys are imported at very low prices which can often be an indicator of both poor quality, but unfortunately the harmfulness of such toys, which is why it is important for us to have extremely precise control and sharp and rigorous in cross-border traffic. This proposal is therefore already in line with EU Regulation 2019/1020. I will repeat, regardless of how late I think we are to implement this regulation, which is that only one set of those laws which, unfortunately, come too late to the Parliament to incorporate EU legislation into Croatian legislation. We know that this law has developed a little better terms and that term is significantly extended compared to the current law, that is, of course, according to those in the regulation. We've already said that double supervision of the department of health and the State Inspectorate is being established. The Regulation seeks to ensure that the application is as uniform as possible in order to ensure equal market findings and surveillance, in order to ensure equal product control and therefore, consequently, equal protection of citizens' health in the EU as a whole. In particular, the challenging control of Internet sales and in this respect calls on all Member States to use additional guidelines and best practices of monitoring and communication with both manufacturers and users. And it's also wanted fast, i.e. the establishment of fast notification channels to remove such items from the market as soon as possible. All of this, of course, improves the control of general use subjects and, consequently, protects the health of our citizens. Let's say there are some things that are unclear now. For example, I would ask why Article 7 deletes the provision that items of general use must have the particulars prescribed by specific regulations governing environmental protection and waste management. This particular provision would be good to remain in the light of all the circumstances of the reality in which we live, and unfortunately the prognosis we have in the future. I see no obstacle in the directive that such a provision remains very specific. There's not a lot of examples to look for. Let's say everyone, the cutlery, the plates, the glasses, means that in this law, too, the use of plastic is no longer possible. What is completely unclear is that for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional financial resources. Therefore, this Regulation and these amendments to the law determine and foresee stricter sanitary controls, providing specifically for the control of the entire Internet market, which is quite large. Next, the harmonisation of criteria and norms in the EU. It is even provided for in the Regulation for the appointment of a single Liaison Office in order to improve administrative assistance and cooperation for market surveillance and the authorities in charge of the control of products entering the Union market. And it is quite clear that, in order to fully implement this Regulation, financial resources are needed, of course, as a result of the amendment and the addition of this law. Because without these financial resources from the budget this implementation, i.e. The application of these amendments and additions, therefore the application of the European Regulation will remain at least half-way, inconsistencies, and thus, of course, the health hazard not only of our citizens, but also of course, EU citizens will be more endangered. We agree with colleague Shimprag, with colleague Mrak-Taritash that I will not repeat all this now because it is very precise, it is clear that they should be in Croatian and should be written, i.e. printed with fonts that can be read. Finally, I would say we agree with the opinion of the Legislative Committee, that as far as the third major amendment is concerned, the basic law has 52 articles, and these amendments and additions have 41 articles. So, we agree with their assessment that the next changes that will surely occur because this is one situation that is constantly changing and upgrades for legal certainty should adopt a whole new law, a new regulation. Here's the Green-Left bloc club, of course, because of the importance of the topic, will support these changes and additions. We hope that all of these remarks that are in this debate will be very concrete and very reasoned applied and built somehow, install a pardon into another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91942	We now have final presentations, so first the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go. I remind you once again before you start saying that we agreed at the beginning to go immediately with the club stand, so once again I remind you, please inform your colleagues, colleagues. Whoever answered to come, didn't turn out to be kind of uninformed about it. Here you go. I'm sorry, the esteemed representative, Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91943	Thank you very much. Biljana Borzana, therefore a representative, is the EU's attorney who is actually best known for how to protect consumer rights. So, thanks to it, a series of research has been made, and thus our products on our market have proved to be less quality than those on the Western market. So that's what happened and we can react in time and these results can bring good to our citizens later. So we're late with this law, we're late for a ban on energy drinks for our children, for young people, how many lives will it take to lose to pass that law in time? At the same time, we are late with some other laws that would protect consumers from the upcoming changes in the currency, so we will change the kuna for the euro and we must protect consumers so as not to lose what little more of the average wage can buy, and we know that this average wage is not enough for an average consumer basket. So, all of these laws that follow the area of consumer protection need to be passed as soon as possible, it is necessary to regulate and protect our citizens before they do faster than this government does. So we see for ourselves that sanitary inspectors are in line with the new tasks that only this Law imposes on them, too little. We see for ourselves that this will not be possible, that the law will not be able to protect the vast market of internet sales, with the number of sanitary inspectors that exist today. So I ask that they be reconsidered to help them, and also, when sanitary inspectors punish them, they also come from their ranks to ask how to punish the one who is both the owner and the responsible person in his small company who must actually pay as the owner and as the responsible person the same punishment, so twice, and in fact there is equal to the ones that have several hundred or more thousands of employees. So unfair punishment and I ask that the ministry, that is, consider the justice of punishment. So, in vain, we will protect one part of consumers if we do not get the whole area right, the issue of declarations is regulated with EU rules, the size of the font is the one prescribed by EU rules, and the change of that part is in place. We expect that, accordingly, there will be a faster application on our EU or Croatian soil so that our consumers, without some, can read and make declarations and be familiar with the quality or composition of household products. It is also important to point out that it is now the same in application, that it is now discussed and best to use the declaration until or to use it, it is the same issue that is now in the European debate. We are also waiting here for faster application and that part because it is very important that consumers know how and when to use a particular product to avoid contributing to the greatest and greatest problem of waste management on our soil. Given this small step, yet one step in protecting our consumers, the SDP Club will support this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91944	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91945	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the final debate on behalf of the club on the subject today, today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters, as we have heard, another harmonisation of the legislative law of the Republic of Croatia with EU regulations. In addition, one of the essential laws for us dealing with health issues, in particular this Law on General Use Matters, governs the concept of the subject of general application, the conditions relating to health and conformity must be met by general application items, the general conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use items and the general application control system, the systematic laboratory examination to monitor the health regularity or conformity of general application items, of course, defined and the rights, duties and powers of the competent authorities in relation to general application cases produced in the Republic, but also those which are linked and placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The legislative proposal also defines the tasks and obligations of the competent authorities and makes it clearer to define the concepts within the meaning of that law. What is also mentioned several times today, which I find extremely important, is that the proposed law defines the new provisions of the competent inspection body in the exercise of supervision for the purpose of verifying health and conformity, which has the right to take samples of general use in production and on the market and import, which includes the novelty mentioned here, which is the purchase of products on the Internet under covert identity, including raw materials in the production process and to give them for testing in an authorised laboratory for the needs of inspection and official controls. It is noteworthy that no additional resources are needed for the application of this Act and that it will not have an impact on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The competent authorities for the implementation of this Act shall be the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate with precise obligations. I think it is necessary to mention this, given that we are talking about a law relating to the subject of general application, once again, what are the terms that are most often mentioned in this Law. These are general uses which are defined as materials and objects that come in direct contact with food, materials and objects that come in contact with water for human consumption and objects of broad consumption. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials and articles defined by the 2004 European Community Regulation and products intended for infants and children under 3 years of age. Materials and articles that come into contact with water for human consumption include materials and objects whose parameters are compliance with specific rules on water for human consumption, while objects are included in the items of extensive consumption in dishes, packaging, toys, various cosmetic products, detergents, tobacco, tobacco and related products, as well as smoking accessories. Of course, there are also certain items and means of use that come into direct contact with skin and mucous membranes or mucous membranes including adult entertainment products, facial and body decorations, jewelry, imitation jewelry. Many other concepts have been defined, such as the production of general use items, their placing on the market, and here are a number of other concepts that we are not going to mention now because of the limited time. As regards this Act, these are its amendments and additions, public consultation has been carried out without significant comments, and here, I can only say that the Club of HDZ Representatives will support this and this proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91946	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-11-0.u91947	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on general application, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 241. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on general application matters and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 115 for and 5 abstentions, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
