ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u82888	The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 10th session with six new points, points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 10th session. So those six points you got by electronic means. If you haven't looked, look but it's adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u82981	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by distinguished representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u82982	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Friday is the 4th day of February and Red Dress Day, of course, I express my own personal and of course, a party's full respect for the most beautiful and most important sex on the globe of Earth, our beautiful women. Let us guard them, of course, and help them, let them live us healthy, long and cheerfully. But this week in this review of the week, we will still start with interesting information as the week itself began, about the way the state has its own properties. Some information and calculations suggest that state properties are worth about 350 billion kuna, an impressive figure, and annually about 2.5 billion kuna is paid from the use of the same properties in the budget. So top-notch state-owned real estate managers worth almost the entire annual budget of the Republic of Croatia, earning only 0.8% annually. Imagine applying with such business results for a job competition in a private investment company. They would probably get a safe and well-paid job as a printer or parking attendant at the same time. On Wednesday and Thursday, we were dealing with a lot of important issues here, but the most important thing was the visit of Minister Beros, whether he was here defending the three-month Covid crisis management report. As always, we've heard everything's fine, everything's fine, everything's under control. However, we have heard little uncertainty here and there, let's say, when our representative Mlinarić asked who he intended to inject 10 million doses of vaccines they ordered, but there was little furry. Likewise, when I asked the Honorable Minister why no data were published on the vaccination status of the deceased of Covid's disease. Mr. Secretary shows documents claiming to be publicly available, but I failed to find them by searching the network for several hours. Our Chipe also asked Minister Berosha why preventive health checks were lifted for the defenders and received an answer, they were not abolished. Unfortunately, a statement that does not correspond to the truth was confirmed later in the debate by both defender and doctor and opposition colleague Mr Ostojic. This week we also witnessed an interesting game of tennis by Zagreb Mayor and Minister Coric, a ball of responsibility was transferred for the terrible accumulation of gas that affected entrepreneurs as well as everyone else if not now soon. The minister calmed us down with statements that the gas would collect less than 100%. So be happy if it's 80%. It is a particularly entertaining fact that the respected minister cited April 1st as the most important date. But for a moment, I still have to ask where are the renewable energy sources and billions spent developing them? If we're going to get the soup kitchen that I'm about to supply from the wind power plant Krsh Padena, I'm afraid not. Namely, the popular cuisine in Zagreb's Holy Spirit's gas bill jumped from 6,000 to 25,000 kuna a month. So, in this Croatia, it's expensive to be poor. And for the end of the week a few hours ago, we were presented new euro coins. It is a good decision because it seems to every average citizen of Croatia when prices fly to the sky which is due to the collection of energys, which due to the change in purchase prices of raw materials on the world market and of course the change in the exchange rate in EUR-o seems almost to me that we will not need paper bills because we will only have coins. But the bitter truth is that we live in two different worlds. One in which those who rule and one in whom we live are the rest of Croatia. The question is, can I see the truth? That would be just one small part of the most important events this week we've seen once again two parallel universes. It's hard to hear from the top of the pyramid how the slaves on the sand roar. Live nice, quiet and comfortable. The truth, bitter truth, or they can't, or they don't know, or what might be most worrying, can't be understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83039	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83040	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Energy prices for Europe have now jumped to 28.6% unmarked compared to last year's period. EUROSTAT published two days ago that consumer prices in countries that introduced the euro increased by as much as 5.1% last month, a new record after a 5% increase in December 2021. In August of last year, Croatian sovereigns warned that the way and the moment in which we introduce the euro would not be favourable for Croatian citizens, and thus also for Croatia. We warned that Croatia, but also the whole world, is in the worst economic crisis recorded, and that it is not logical that Croatia, one of the weakest economies in the EU, is currently adopting the euro. We warned that prices would rise as is happening right now. If judged by all indicators coming from the EU, the trend in rising prices will continue. We warned that it is not a good practice of exclusion, self-admiration and the haughtiness of this government when it tries to involve Croatian citizens in political processes in its homeland. We organized professional stands, conferences, debates, sent statements, appealed to reason but unfortunately this government did not want to hear these warnings and appeals. And reason in the context of the ruling should not even be mentioned. She didn't want to hear it, not because we didn't have arguments, but because they did. Their ego doesn't allow them to publicly state right you're supposed to change this. Don't expect that from them. Unfortunately, Croatia has long been ruled by just such structures that are not the target of the prosperity of Croatians and Croats but the prosperity of parties and partners. Croatia will become the main topic of books, publications, analysis and works due to its ego trip and self-promotion in Europe. The world economy cream will look at Croatia and closely monitor the Croatian economy, but not for the reason why we would like to be followed. They will follow us because we are the weakest economy in the EU, we adopt the EUR in exceptional circumstances, because of the impact of the pandemic on the economy, which is because of the fact that no country has introduced the euro so far at this rate of inflation. Croatian economic experts warn that some of the EU countries have already gone through the worst part of inflation and expensive fuel and food products, but not Croatia that can expect this somewhere in the summer or spring. Already, with inflation, part of the economy is considering raising prices before showing double prices so as not to end up on various black lists, making life even more difficult for citizens. And let us not forget the increase in prices that will come with the adoption of the EUR, which has been the case with each Member State that has adopted it so far. Smart. The correct decision of this government would be to postpone the introduction of the EUR, which we have actually advocated during the entire referendum initiative, but there are two key problems about making such a decision. The first is an economic nature, which is that Croatia has never met the convergence criteria of the introduction of EUR, never. The Maastricht criteria have changed over the years largely depending on Europe's political and not on Europe's economic interests. So, even now, they are changed, perhaps better said, relaxed by the pandemic, and in fact, they are relaxed by the perception of the EU that is developing and progressing. It progresses and develops in such a way that only Bulgaria and Croatia want to introduce the EUR. Two of Europe's weakest economies. Until one Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Sweden see not the benefits of the EUR but the advantages of a strong well-managed national currency. And another problem that is certainly much bigger, more serious and more important to the Croatian political elite than to advocate some economic criteria there is the loss of European elite favor that Andrej Plenkovic should stand in front of and explain why Croatia does not dance in the music from Brussels. Croatia was created for Croatians and Croats, not Brussels, not Strasbourg. As long as we have a government that doesn't understand it, we won't get any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83101	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Irena Simunic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83102	... The first Friday in February is traditionally wearing red. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] That day is dedicated to fighting a stroke in women. Red dress day. Statistics and epidemiological data show that women are at greater risk of stroke and that stroke is the second cause of female mortality in Croatia just as in the world and the first cause of disability. Every year he kills twice as many women as breast cancer between 20 and 29 years old is twice as common in women as in men. The first campaign was launched in 2004 in America, and today it is dedicated to prevention, diagnosis and control of cardiovascular diseases. The stroke in a woman is insufficiently identified, under-exploited and undertreated. Today the public health educational action Red Dress Day ends with a desire to raise awareness of the specificities of strokes primarily in women, awareness of the importance of prevention, care and care for their own health. For the fourth year in a row, Croatia's Neurological Society is organized by the Croatian Medical Assembly, which includes brave women who have suffered a stroke. In this way, together they want to warn about the specificity of the stroke in women, to draw attention to the devastating consequences of neglecting symptoms and the necessary change in lifestyle. It is important to stress that a stroke can be prevented by caring for your own health as much as 80%. It can be prevented if we keep an eye on the main risk factors that can be affected, which are blood pressure, diabetes, increased fat, physical inactivity, smoking, alcohol. Women tend to ignore the symptoms of stroke because it is always more important than their health, so they are unfortunately late to receive treatment. This automatically reduces their chances of a better outcome. The principle of acute treatment is based on the so-called a time window, i.e. on rapid recognition of symptoms and rapid access to treatment, which women very often ignore. Another thing that is very sad is the fact that after the hospitalisation of acute treatment, women often end up in institutions, they rarely return to their homes where their family treatment would be better. When a husband is sick and has the consequences of a stroke, he is more often accepted and cared for than vice versa. Why is that? There's a lot of reason. Culturally due to mentality, but not only in Croatia, it is the case in the whole world. We are not willing to sacrifice ourselves for another, and in the life of each of us, sooner or later, welcome something. A stroke happens to everyone, doesn't ask for years, just like cancer. On the day of February 4th, the International Day for Combating Cancer is marked to raise awareness of cancer diseases, their prevention, diagnosis, treatment. Due to the high incidence of malignant diseases and their high mortality rates, cancer is called a modern age epidemic and is not exclusively a health problem for the sick but has a major impact on wider social and economic development. Cancer is the second most significant cause of death in Croatia, from which every fourth resident in Croatia dies. Of the 20,000 newly registered in Croatia, about 13,000 die of cancer every year each year. World statistics are also devastating. Cancer is the leading cause of death in the world. In both the world and Croatia, cancer rates are on the rise, and incidence rates and mortality rates are more in men than in women. Most women suffer from breast cancer, colon, and lung cancer. Men are mostly killed by lung cancer, and immediately after that, colon and prostate cancer. Unfortunately, Croatia as well as the sequence hardly says that non-smoking, so a large number of lung cancer patients still hold the first place of occurrence. The statistics of these diseases are devastating and particularly worrying and therefore important from day to day, not just today to remind you of the fact that 50% of cancer can be prevented, that it never occurs with a little effort. How? Stop consumption of tobacco products, eat healthy, regularly exercise physical activity, maintain normal body weight, not excessive alcohol consumption, protect yourself from cancer-related infections, avoid non-critical sunbathing. So little, and in life it often seems so much and inaccessible, because man is only human. To think of yourself and take care of your health should be the priority activity of each of us, just each individual's greatest gift to himself and thus to the social community in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83170	And as the last club representative of that CENTRA and GLAS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83171	Good afternoon. Here's a greeting to everyone in an empty payphone, and also from this empty pay phone, I wanted to warn you about one thing that actually happened yesterday, which is that on the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, I asked for a thematic session on the subject of the situation at the University of Osijek of Josip Juraj Strossmayer. The request was supported by a third of the members of the Assembly's committee, which is a sufficient reason, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the thematic session to be convened, i.e. to be convened by the president. So yesterday we discussed when this thematic session would be and what materials should be prepared for it. However, the topic of the University of Osijek, PhD at the University of Osijek, especially at the Faculty of Economics, seems to be too hot for HDZ people, since all members of the HDZ board have risen to their last legs, to their last legs, and reacted sharply and have, in fact, avoided the call of the thematic session. Instead, the board president suggested that we have a thematic session on the state of doctoral studies at all universities in Croatia, because it is reportedly in fact agreeing with this assessment that all doctoral studies should be really audited, and this can certainly be the subject of a special thematic session. However, I insisted that given that all the conditions of the Rules of Procedure were met to organise a thematic session on the University of Osijek, since recently there has been a series of affairs that undermine the reputation of the university and question the quality and numerous academic titles acquired at the university. One amazing news that was recently in public, so the precedent not in the history of the academic community, not only in Croatia, but throughout the world, is that this university has decided that one of the PhDs was made and defended at that university in 2018 can be subsequently corrected. Here I was looking for proof that someone brought me that it happened at any university on the globe of the Earth in the history of the academic community, if anyone brings me proof I'm going to give up a thematic session about the Osijek University. So today, we are in a situation where the University of Osijek became a synonym for fraud, became a subject of mockery, a theme of memories on social networks, and it is certainly not an honor for all those employees of the university who do their job with honor and responsibility. To all those scientists who are at that university and are truly valuable and responsible, all those students who are entering this university will actually become all the expensive subject of the message and it is important to discuss on the Assembly Committee whether the administration of that university is aware of this situation, what they are doing to change this and what actions they have taken in this direction. The questionable quality of the study was also pointed out by the Scientific and Higher Education Agency's expert commission in 2017, which identified a number of shortcomings in the study. They received a recommendation from the agency and a three-year deadline to address these shortcomings, but the ministry was simply not satisfied with how it was done. So there are a number of issues worth discussing at this thematic session. However, there are obviously other opinions on this, there are those who do not want the PhDs at the Faculty of Economics of Osijek University to be discussed. I would say that this is the final example of the HDZ model of demographics, which is one van of fake PhDs in Osijek, and two buses of valuable professional people, young experts from Croatia to Ireland. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83172	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with working for today. We will continue on Wednesday 9 February at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Since there is no one in the assembly other than the esteemed representative Puljak, she is the only one who can wish for a pleasant weekend. Goodbye! Session interrupted at 13.36 p.m. Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and the honourable representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83243	Thank you. The Red Dress Day campaign was launched in 2004 in America called Go Red for Women, launched to raise awareness of the dangers of stroke in women. The stroke in women is insufficiently identified, under-exploited and undertreated. It was launched by the American Cardiological Society, and the World Cardiological Federation has expanded the campaign at world level and today more than 50 countries are running their national campaigns Go Red, raising awareness and providing funds to fight heart disease and stroke through the organisation of professional gatherings, educational promotional campaigns, fashion magazines, health examinations, sports events. In Croatia, Croatian Neurological Society began to mark Red Dress Day with various activities in 2019 and since then every first Friday in February, as it is today dedicated to the problem of stroke in women. In fact, the specificity of a stroke in women is that the symptoms are less typical, we could say hidden, more than in men. That's why they don't come in time to the hospital, and time is crucial for survival and for later life without damage and without disability. It should also be emphasized that women are always inclined to put everything else ahead of themselves, neglecting their health. But equality between men and women is still one of our main social problems, and it takes a lot more, a lot of effort, fighting, proof and goodwill to achieve greater results on this plan, to reach real equality from the declaration. It's terrible that every year a stroke kills twice as many women as it kills him with breast cancer, and women are more afraid of cancer. It's also frightening that every other woman is suffering from brain or heart disease, each other, 50% of the age of 20 to 39 is a stroke of 2x more often in women than in men. For example. One of the risk situations is complications in pregnancy caused by increased blood pressure and diabetes. These are the reasons along with many others, that on the day of the red dresses the reflector points to this great danger to women. The campaign aims to encourage women to care for their health, primarily heart and blood vessels because most of these diseases can be prevented by healthy habits of life, but it also wants to encourage healthcare professionals to pay special attention to women’s heart and stroke due to their differences with men. The sign of protection is the force of a woman in a red dress who is both fragile and strong, and the red dress has a double message. A dress, like a universal picture of a woman and red as a color of health, life, liveliness, but also warnings. Warning that a stroke could happen to any of us. But also, it is possible to prevent and prevent it. Let's change life's habits, it's a healthy diet, it's important physical activity, let's inform ourselves, let's not ignore the symptoms, let's take whatever it takes to reduce the possibility of a stroke. Of course, I call upon men to raise awareness of this problem, to protect us more and to keep our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83322	I'd be missing three minutes to one now, but we've finished the debate, so I'd start by taking a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives. I'm asking everyone that if their colleagues aren't here by accident, and I8z of their clubs to invite them, so that we don't skip someone, we're left without a valuable discussion here, so please let them know and then we'll start with the first club of representatives, and that's the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative, Zvonimir Troscott, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83323	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. When I debated with the Minister of Economy 20 days ago, I warned already because we were calculating the prices that are calculated on the basis of the market in the Netherlands, that after 1.4 families would have to pay gas between 2700 and 3700 kuna on an annual basis, and it's about some price waiting for us. So all those who use gas and pay gas will pay a minimum of 2 and a half thousand kuna at an annual higher account level. Well, of course, when, at that point in time, you make an argument and you accuse yourself of being on call a disaster, but what's for sure is that this transfer of balls from one yard to another will only take another month. At the end of the day, it is irrelevant who is to blame for why collectively this situation will lead us to a new crisis. And I wouldn't be surprised if even people went out to the streets for reasons that this is an existential problem and the question of how people will, given that there's no pay raises, in which way our citizens will endure a single gas strike like this. The question arises as to why own production has been falling since 2015 until today, so it was 55%, today it is 21%, and there are several strategic issues. We found certain gas findings of the Zalata Dravica type back in 2008, that we 12, 13 years can't start digging up this site is a major questionnaire. Also a strategic question our citizens would like to hear, which is why we no longer extend concessions in Angola where we emptied everything and one well we found about oil gas, so we didn't invest anything, we didn't find anything new. And as for concessions in Egypt, the question is why we don't invest there, so all major energy companies buy concessions especially in the Nile Delta in the Mediterranean. Ina, however, has entered an investment along with a German consortium with 20% share, but this is all too little for own production so that we can supply ourselves with gas. The question also arises, which is why we only have one gas warehouse around. Which is why we wouldn't be strategic and why it's been since 2008 so now I see PLINACRO doing a new strategy for 10 years, but I see only the streaming and copying of the strategy from one decade to the next, and again in the third and we don't do it operationally. Why do we only have around as a gas warehouse? Why the fields we've already exhausted so far we haven't created new gas warehouses, so that we could then buy cheaper gas per summer, fill those warehouses, and then when winter comes, when we need to spend more money, we can spend out of our gas warehouses. What about INA? No one knows the fate of the company, and indeed MOL uses it for its strategic interests for reasons that through the southern flow of Russia through Turkey delivers gas to Europe, which then the Hungarians deliver to us one of the supply routes. And as they see we don't have any strategy of course, then the margins of that gas will be much larger. Who's supposed to build those warehouses? Obviously, the Government of the Republic of Croatia if we want to be strategically positioned to protect ourselves from Hungary, in order to protect ourselves from wild markets. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, could be an investment really for the future. Why it's been waiting 12 years is not clear to me. Furthermore, as far as Zagreb itself is concerned, what should definitely happen is the ban on unilateral termination of contracts by suppliers and the solution is that then the substitute supplier Varazdin replaces the gas lost by our entrepreneurs and social institutions, and that the Government then pays the difference. Furthermore, which is why we went into such a headless deregulation of the gas market. If someone is going to say that the EU has given a mandate to do so, they are lying because there are certain countries in the EU who have recognised that neither procedurally nor human or strategically are willing to step forward in such a step as to move our gas market in Europe automatically to our citizens' accounts and why we went to that deregulation if we are not ready for such a step.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83394	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83395	I thank the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, more than 6,000 people each year die in the Republic of Croatia as a result of a stroke, and 60% of them are lost women's lives. Red dress day is marked every Friday in February around the world to raise awareness of strokes in women, to identify their symptoms and to need a change in life habits to prevent a stroke. According to available HZZ data, the stroke in women is still underrated and is considered to be protected by hormonal status but with menopause, the risk increases and causes more frequent female mortality than in men. In addition to death, stroke can cause severe disability, and rehabilitation is long and often unsatisfactory. Although mortality is an extremely high stroke, it can be prevented in as many as 80% of cases by prevention and lifestyle change. Conscious of all the burdens of family and business life that women face on a daily basis, they often neglect their own health, especially in a difficult economic situation when it is almost impossible to follow all recommendations on healthy nutrition and necessary physical activity. Many families, especially women, simply cannot afford the luxury of a balanced Mediterranean diet recommended by experts. In the last two years, this has become an even bigger challenge because we are facing the Covida-19 pandemic and reduced availability of difficult medical examinations and searches to prevent fatal consequences. High blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity, smoking, diabetes, stress, depression are all risk factors affecting health and possible stroke but the question is how familiar women really are with their health conditions and can each woman afford preventive checks to detect potential hazards. We are in a society where socio-economic imbalances prevail, low incomes are not enough to meet the basic needs of life, especially for healthy nutrition that many are inaccessible. Isolated, the problem is many nursing and single households where women are neither available nor primary health care, let alone specialist reviews or emergency medical intervention. The question is whether this government has any idea how to protect its citizens and citizens from the cerebrovascular diseases that has placed the Republic of Croatia in a high sixth place by mortality in Europe. Does this government have any idea how to prevent the death of citizens and citizens from cancer that has put us in another fifth place by mortality in the EU? Does this government have any idea how to reform the health system in a country where it is among the five worst countries in the world at the mortality of covida-19 disease while on average we are the worst in the EU on average? Does this government have any idea how to stop dying in the Republic of Croatia from what a healthy health care system should cure or the idea of it also died along with our health system? Today we want to encourage women to look after themselves, because no one else will do it for them, and the government to do everything possible to ensure that preventive checks are available to every woman. Because even though health costs, the disease is even more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83479	The next club of representatives will be that of HDZ, according to respected representative Nevenko Barbaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u83480	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Several sentences on the attempt to amend electoral legislation in BiH, negotiations in Neum, several days after what kind of echoes are, who are the culprits of failure, which dominates the public space, as follows. So, the essence of the problem is the threat, the lack of the constitutionality of the Croatian people guaranteed by the Dayton Peace Agreement, and the constitutionality guarantees the Croatian people the right to elect their representatives in power, guarantees full equality to the Croatian people. The Bosniaks are relativating the failure, they say we were close to an agreement which is not true. We will continue to negotiate, so he blames Cicovic and his ambitions as if Cicovic, not the Croatian people, is a constitutional category. Spins are being released about Croatian over-representation, about the crucial positions held by Croats in government at the state level. Not a word about the signed Mostar Agreement, the commitments made from the summer of 2020. So, it's a clear scenario. After the next elections, he wants to take full control of the Federation, to have a majority in the Council of Ministers. Who cares that such policies deepen political recommendations, who cares that such policies distance BiH from the euro of Atlantic integration, the development of prosperity. International mediators are calling for an agreement as Croats understand, seeking a compromise in terms of giving up national prefixes after failed negotiations, pilate hands, and announcing the conduct of elections as the elections are the festival of democracy. Who cares that such choices are unconstitutional. Namely, already 2015. The BiH Constitutional Court abolished provisions on the election of envoys to the House of Peoples, with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH never putting it on the agenda, never returning. The election and the rules will be passed by the electoral commission, and it is known who has and in what way appointed such an election commission. The failure of the negotiations is an opportunity in the Republic of Croatia for political outsmarts and attacks on this government, therefore not on the governments that were silent when the controversial changes were made. Those governments that were more important to impose the election of representatives against the protection of their people in BiH than this particular government. Says the government doesn't do enough, doesn't do anything. Again, he is guilty of going to Banja Luka. It is the same President Plenkovic's fault for going to Sarajevo. Who do you even talk to? Who and how to block? Who cares what the Croats from BiH say about it? The Croatian government's efforts to improve living conditions and strengthen Croatian institutions are minorised, they say we do not need that kind of help. Who cares what local self-government representatives say, which says about 7 and a half thousand Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Defence Council who are the victims of war and certain rights have been exercised in the Republic of Croatia. Or what the students say, as the representatives of the health, cultural or educational institutions of the Croats in BiH say? Have any critics ever submitted one amendment or held a meeting aimed at improving, improving the living conditions of Croats in BiH. We have survived various political parasites in our difficulties, and we will survive today. I believe I speak for the great majority of Croats. Many thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia for everything it does. How's that? Do we have a plan B? Do you even go to unconstitutional elections? I believe that very soon the answers to these important issues will be offered by political representatives of the Croatian people in BiH gathered in the HNS with the support of all important Croatian institutions in BiH, and with the support of this government of the Republic of Croatia, and we remain in BiH. BiH is a state and a Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90735	And now a good day for all of us, we begin with work before us: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, first reading, P.Z. Number 237 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda as I said before the provisions of the first reading apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Does the representative of the motionor, State Secretary Dunja Magash of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90736	Thank you, dear Vice President. The Honorable Parliamentary MPs are currently in force of the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster for 3 years. During that time, requirements related to the payment of administrative fees and the actual costs for the issue of excerpts, transcriptions, confirmation and copy of state measurement documentation, real estate catastra, cadastra infrastructure, register of buildings, register of spatial units and registers of geographical names, the achievement of insight and for the determination of compliance with the request of the parties have been made. It is also necessary to ensure the effective implementation of a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurements of construction areas for the period 2021, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 1 October 2021. In order to create preconditions for new investment and economic development and the development of technology in the area of access and use of state measurement data and real estate catastra, it is also necessary to prescribe more detailed production procedures and review and validation of geodetic emborates. At the meeting held on 7 May 2020, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion adopting an action plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties and tasked individual authorities of the State Administration to implement the measures set out in the action plan. The last action plan provides for a measure under regular number 32 which provides for the elimination of the actual cost of data use and for which the State Geodetic Authority is responsible. Furthermore, the measure under the regular number of the 33rd Action Plan provides for the reduction of administrative fees which constitute the revenue of the state budget for which the Ministry of Finance is responsible in cooperation with the competent authorities, including the State Geodetic Authority. As regards that measure, it is necessary, inter alia, to comply with the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster with the rules governing the payment of administrative fees, and all for the purpose of horizontal compliance of the positive rules governing the specified matter. This draft bill abolishes the collection of most of the actual costs of data use. It is prescribed that actual costs are not charged for excerpts, stamps, transcripts and certificates. Furthermore, actual costs shall not be charged for data when they are used through network services or other electronic access points. It shall be prescribed that actual costs are charged for carrying out specific technical actions at the request of the parties and that they are exceptionally charged for the issue of data when the party does not use electronic data access. This draft law also fully exempts all public authorities from paying the actual costs of accessing and using the data they need to carry out data from jurisdiction while all public administration authorities and other state authorities are exempt from the actual costs and from the techniques of action. In order to further improve the services of the land administration system from the point of view of efficiency and transparency of costs, and in view of the needs of the continued modernisation of the cataster and the land book, the State Geodetic Administration shall carry out cadastral measurements which are the basis for the restoration or establishment of land books carried out by the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the competent municipal courts. In order to successfully carry out the tasks and tasks of the programme and within the deadlines set by the programme, it is necessary to achieve a high degree of cooperation and coordination of all the activities of the operators and participants of the implementation and to establish effective cooperation directly between interested state authorities, ministries and agencies, adapt and legislative frameworks in a way that further simplifies the processes and accelerates the procedures for the restoration of catasters and land books through ensuring the integration of geodetic and legal knowledge in the preparation of data, and all of this by changing the wise.../incomprehensible/... technology. Up-to-date and reliable catastrian and land-based data contribute to the rule of law and are a fundamental assumption of the quality and efficient functioning of the real estate market and the launch of investment and implementation of capital development infrastructure projects, thus creating preconditions for efficient economic development. The Republic of Croatia has since its independence faced a major challenge of updating and synchronising the data of the Catastra and the Land Book. For a large number of properties, existing information in the cataster and land books differs and often does not correspond to the real state. The basic reason is the historical heritage of socialism when changes in real estate were mostly recorded only in the cataster because of its tax character at the time or not recorded at all, but also because of the lack of concern of the owner of the property in relation to the obligation to report changes in real estate and to record these changes in the cataster and land book. At that time, the State did not take into account the state of the register and the accuracy and reliability of the registrations in state registers, even though at that time as it is now competent to establish and keep official real estate records on the side of the State. This situation prevents and slows down legal traffic by real estate and other transactions, thereby causing additional costs to all participants in the real estate market. It is an obstacle to legal security in real estate and economic development as a whole. The lack of up-to-date real estate records also presents a major problem for planning and spatial development, the issue of acts that precede construction, implementation of infrastructure projects and for agriculture and environmental protection, implementation of strategic investments, projects financed by EU funds, the award of concessions and other projects or the implementation of procedures of local, regional and state importance. Citizens and legal persons, investors and real estate owners, public authorities who use real estate data in official records expect a guarantee for registration and legal certainty, as well as a quick service and complete coverage of up-to-date data. In accordance with the applicable Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, the parties are in the process of cadastrian measurement, I mean the marking of land borders, the presentation of data and the embodies of cadastral measurements are called by written means, writtenly delivered to natural and legal persons enrolled in certain official records, and to addresses available in official records of a cadastrian land-book operation. Since the above records are updated on the basis of the request of natural and legal persons who are signatories of a change affecting the data of a cadastrian operator, this has shown that the delivery is not effective only in writing and that it is often not possible to address the real holder of the right or the correct address for receipt of the letter in writing. Therefore, with this draft bill, it proposes to make notices and calls published on the National Geodetic Authority’s advertising board, and to provide the parties with written information on the published call, which will allow the content of the publication, i.e. calls to meet all persons who are enrolled in the existing records and who have sufficient opportunities to make, as well as all other persons in whom it is not possible to do the same, who have a legal interest to participate in the procedures of the cadastral measurement, and individual and renewal, i.e. the establishment and addition of the land book. In this way, efficiency is increased in the implementation of the cadastrian measurement and the production of a cadastrian real estate operator, as well as the restoration and addition of the land book. Since public disclosure is available to all, and to those parties, to whom for any reason it is not available in writing and greater protection of party rights is also achieved both because of the wider circle of persons who have the information on the above mentioned and for the fact that the information on the published call continues to be made in writing to parties whose delivery is possible. Furthermore, all in order to ensure the full protection of party rights, in the context of the preparation of elaboratical measurements by the provisions of this bill, it is prescribed that the list which is an integral part of the catastral change elaborats shows persons who have not responded to the call and for those cadastrian particles on which the persons have not been called for a marking for the purpose of showing the cadastral particle in the catastral measurement elaboratrate as the land limits take over the marked boundaries of neighbouring land in the marking process, if not possible, data will be taken on the breaking points of the border and other frontiers of the cadastrian particles and from the existing catastrian operator. In that way, despite the parties’ possible failure to give up their calls, data will be collected on those recorded in the existing records, while land limits are determined as above, fully guaranteeing the protection of the rights of the parties. The provisions of this draft law, which is prescribed by the Catastra Real estate operator, open with the date of the opening of the land book, harmonizes with those prescribed by the Law on Land Books. In addition, the draft bill simplifies the conditions for the conduct of the translation of cadastral soil clusters into a land-based database, i.e. individual land-book transformation, which will further contribute to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme specifics for the purpose of introducing a single, single procedure for citizens and economic operators. Finally, the draft law will achieve the following positive effects, create a framework for the improvement of the common information system of the land book and the cataster, revise business processes in cataster and teaching, in land books for the purpose of significantly reducing the number of procedures, avoiding double implementations resulting from current rules in cataster and land-based procedures in the domain of catasteric measurements, plan improvements that will affect the construction, entrepreneurs, farmers and all other land administration users, which will speed up and make the process of putting into use catasteric operators and land-based books more efficient, ensure access to spatial land data without non-taxable and parafiscal giving, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, improving the business environment, improving the planning of space management and its protection, increasing investment, improving public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90737	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90738	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, ma'am. Magash. It's not a question. It's just to go through one more piece of art. 56, where it is defined in public insight into the data of an open catastrian operator, an objection may be made, etc., etc. The question, of course, is from a public debate, and I think it's realistic because it can really slow down by completing the cadastrian measurements of the right to restrict or restrict the possibility of parties to make countless complaints. Perhaps here in law it was necessary to limit the number of objections in some way, obviously that these procedures could be extended for a very, very, very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90739	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90740	Thank you very much for your comment. Of course, all that can be improved, we can improve in the second reading, but the intensity was that this Law, to reduce calls to the parties, not to call them three times but only twice at the moment when the border is marked and the moment when this geodetic elaborate is presented and on these occasions they can make their remarks in both the record and the geodetic elaborate itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90741	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90742	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So this amendment and the addition of the law to me have two, two groups. One group is those technical changes in harmonisation related to fees which, therefore, where you technically do certain harmonisations, but the other group is essential. The second group is for reasons where you want them to and for yourself to be aware of the long-term process where you want these procedures to really be shortened and that they last faster is the meaning of all these long-term procedures. What I said on the Legislative Committee, and I will repeat here and in the debate, and I will give you such a question. When it comes to such an amendment and the addition of the law, then the explanation should really show how long it takes today, what kind of a hodogram we have today, and this change that is being achieved, or how much is being shortened, so I am giving you the opportunity to come to us in a minute as far as possible, what is it today, and what this amendment and supplement will bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90743	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90744	So we can say that today's situation is related to catastrian measurements and the ultimate goal that we want the data to be harmonised in cadastres and grant books. The average duration of the procedure until the renewal of the land book is 80 months or 6.67 years. So we have 427 catastrian municipalities in measure, 248 of which were implemented by the Catastrian municipalities, which would mean that we ultimately want to amend the law and comply with the laws of land which are also in preparation and I expect that in the second reading of these two laws will be the same day and at the same time in this assembly, so that one data is harmonised in one law and another, meaning that this procedure will be reduced to 2nd g. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90745	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90746	Your Honor, ma'am. Magash, we welcome the law, I welcome the initiative, especially the part that is related to the alignment of books, grants and cadastrians. However, there is one problem that happens in practice. You said yourself here that actually people who are on the ground, I'm talking about natural persons, they themselves mark boundaries or borders before measured, so you said and so it says in the law. Now, what's the problem? The problem is that if one of these parties is unreasonable and shows that it is not true, then the person who is actually losing must prove it all together in some kind of procedure, in some court procedure to get back to what he has already had. What do you mean, solve it, and who's going to pay for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90747	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90748	Thank you very much for asking. And now the parties themselves are not marking their borders, but it is done by an authorised performer that means an authorised geodesy engineer. That's what the law says, that's what the law says, and so it is and so it is, and when it is done, it's being prepared for the purposes of the measurement sketch, all parties are called in, and they show where their border is, and means they have to agree and, all intercessors have to agree with the breaking points which, meaning the coordinates of which each breaking point is joined by coordinates and thus put on permanent markings, but means that the intercessors must agree with it, but with the presence of an authorised performer, the performer, means authorised geodete. ... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90749	No, no, no, no, he can't, he can't do it like that, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90750	And if they don't agree, well, if they don't agree, then when a geodetic elaborate is produced they can, they can make a complaint and that's it. Mr. Pavić, you know that dialogue is not possible. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90751	- Mrs. Crescent. Anamaria Blažević. ... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, even for patriotic reasons, but here you go, Mr. Brumnic. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90752	Dearly beloved, I have this simple question to try for us here in the assembly, and also to explain to the citizens the meaning of the existence of a catastra, the meaning of the existence of a land book, what citizens get by having two separate documents that actually record more or less the same thing, so here you have a minute to try to explain what the point of today is for the state and for the citizens is to have a cadastre, and I will try to explain in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90753	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90754	I fully agree with your findings, certainly the data we have in the catalogue and the ownership data that we have in the garter are needed and we know about everyday life, and now I have also listed in the opening speech what we need, what we need, why we need it and why these records must be harmonised and the purpose of this government's administration and the purpose of this government is to coordinate these data as quickly as possible so that they are equal in the records and that we practically have one record. And the purpose of this and these amendments of this law is to exactly comply with the law and the land books so that the land data base that will be filled in a faster way that will have identical data in the cataster and grantaries and that will then be for the citizens practically one public document, one place where they will be sure that these data are correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90755	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Anamaria Blažević now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90756	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I have actually answered my question already and must say that I really agree that they are important now for your answer for several reasons and for all subjects in fact involved in the process of cadastrian measurements and assumptions are, just to hope that the assumption of further development of cities, municipalities. It's extremely important, of course, for local administration units. Most of the time, these are really long-term procedures. The town of Pakrac has taken cadastaral measurements as early as 2016. And there's still no end surveillance at all, so 6 years. is done and the reason it is not giving up the parties. We are a specific environment where 50% of people don't actually live there in '91, we have a measurement of about 9,000 particles, so these are all some elements and what I can say is that this law is going to reduce this process and that it's recognized I heard the answer. It's 6.6 years old. In fact, the average of the cadastrian measurements. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90757	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90758	Everything you've said, I agree with it and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90759	- Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90760	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, both here and otherwise in the practice of catastre and land books are simply two so related things that they are always almost speaking together. We now have this Law on Catastrian Amendments. It would be necessary. It would make sense if we got the Land Book Act. The debates are often united in this assembly. It seems to me that the catastrus and land books are just one of those discussions that should have been united. Okay, we don't have that Land Book Act for now. You said he'd be here soon, but for the sake of importance, because this law won't have its effects until it's settled, the Land Book Act. I would kindly ask you to repeat if you have information when this Law on Land Books will come into the parliamentary procedure and is there really a guarantee that these two laws will go together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90761	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90762	Thank you very much. I don't have the exact answer when he's going to be in the parliamentary procedure. It is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, but as I have heard from my colleagues he is in the works and I have already said before I expect when there is a second reading of this law that in this second reading of both laws will be held at a parliamentary debate in which it will be seen exactly that these articles are harmonised and that the goal we want to achieve is to fill the base of land data as quickly as possible that it will be possible to apply those two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90763	Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am. Madam Secretary of State. Magash, you said the average duration was now one measure of the Catastar municipality. However, we have testified that it has been known for many years, 11 years or more. Now I'm curious, you said it would take some two years, but there will still be some of those deadlines and longer ones where it'll be more complicated if you have any information about how long it might last, that's the first thing. And secondly, did the homogenisation of the cadastrian plans make any difference that we already have more precise and accurate information in the cataster itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90765	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90766	Thank you very much. So I'm going to answer you on this second question about homogenization. This project was completed, it was carried out in the area of 2498 catastrian municipalities, where we had old cadastrian measurements, practically means with homogenization we covered 75% of the areas where it was virtually out of sync when the orthophoto maps were overlapped means those airlines and the digital catastrian plan so that 75% of the area was harmonised, and those 25% of what wasn't doing homogenization we already have, the area and what we're saying that we can say that we have harmonised data in the catastrus and in the garland. And for this first one, for this first question, we wouldn't say in advance what it would be, the goal is to make it as short as possible. Of course, there will be some catastrian measurements that may last longer than 2 years, but some will last even shorter, so here's the goal of taking this longer than, on average, 2 g. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90767	Thank you. Mr. Ocrosha.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90768	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, how do you come from the construction profession as a graduate building engineer how are you satisfied with solving the problem in practice, both regarding this Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, and in general in the work of the Ministry of Space Planning, Construction and State Property, or here is the question whether, perhaps, a little bit of time, the administration is holding us back because as a graduate engineer, I like to see specific things, so here is your opinion as a state secretary, is there anything you can do about the administration and speeding up all the problems of the Ministry's work?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90769	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90770	I can give you some data here about geodetic elaborates that we have on average about 20 per year, we have about 60,000, and they include about 200,000 cadastrian particles, so I can give you one relationship between issued construction, location and useful permits that at the annual level, let's say last year were about 20,000 permits or acts that precede construction. And when we look at both data and other data, we can say that the practical processes of issuing works that preceding the construction take part in the creation of geodetic labs, means they practically contribute to the synchronization of data in garneries and catastro real estate. So the issue of building permits is closely linked to and this law will, in any case, improve and speed up the issue of building permits. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90771	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90772	Thank you very much. Respected State Secretary, based on Article. 8th of this law, the affairs of national measurement and real estate catastra shall be based on the multiannual programmes adopted by the Assembly. The Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a multiannual programme for the period of '21. until 30, 1.10.2021. What is my question to you is whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted an annual programme for 2021 on the basis of the same article. and whether it has adopted an annual programme for 2022. and if so, where are these programs available or publicly visible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90773	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90774	Thank you. There's an annual plan in preparation for 2022, and here I have it in the papers, and it's going to come to the government's session very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90775	All right, all right, all right, all said. No more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? You're free. Yeah. Here you are, Mr. Stromar, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 10th session of February 2022, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of HS discussed the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster, first reading, P.Z. No. 237, as a parent body. The Committee members presented several proposals and opinions, and warned of the problems encountered in the field in the restoration of catasters and land books and in the process of presentation, were satisfied with the work of the State Geodetic Administration by abolishing various fees for citizens and supported by the law in question due to the simplification and acceleration of a large number of procedures. Most of the votes the Committee has decided to propose to HS the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90777	Thank you very much. I'm opening an argument and the first order is Mrs. Devereaux. Barbara Antolic Vopor in front of SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90778	Your Honor. The relevant Act on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster regulates the state measurement of the real estate catalogue, the infrastructure catalogue, the register of buildings, the register of spatial units, the register of geographical names, the jurisdiction of those transactions, as well as their performance. That law provides for the collection of the actual costs of the use of data, documentation and official records of the State Geodesy Administration. These amendments and additions to the Act shall and shall implement the measures laid down in the action plan to reduce non-taxed parafiscal duties for which the implementation of which is entrusted to the DGU in such a way as to prescribe the suspension of the collection of most actual costs of the use of data for the issue of excerpts, transcriptions, confirmation and copy of state measurement documentation, cataster of real estate, infrastructure, register of buildings, register of spatial units and registers of geographical names, and the achievement of insights for the conduct of the party's request. More detailed rules are also required to work on the process of producing and reviewing and confirming geodetic elaborates. Additional mechanisms shall be introduced in the process of cadastral measurements and public insights, which will be made available by means of a public institute and by publication of a public call to ensure a faster deployment in the use of a cadastrian operator. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates should achieve economic recovery and ensure a modern and efficient system of land administration that will contribute to increasing legal certainty in real estate management, fostering and speeding up the investment process and improving the functioning of the real estate market. It is commendable that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law abolish the collection of most of the actual costs of data use. Real costs are clearly prescribed and are not charged for excerpts, stamps, transcripts and certificates, as has been the case so far and most important for our citizens, in this whole story, which will certainly cost less to settle their real estate. The notices and calls of the parties shall be made available to the public, as well as to the DGU’s advertising board, and written information on the call made shall also be provided to the parties, which we hope will enable them to make known to the content of the publication or calls to all persons enrolled in the existing records and to whom delivery may be made possible. All those who are not able to do the same and who have a legal interest in participating in those procedures will also get to know each other. In this way, I believe, it will increase efficiency in carrying out cadastrian measurements and making a cadastrian operator, a real estate catastra, and the establishment and addition of a land book, given that public, that public publication should be available to all interested so far. The amendments and amendments to the law states that less than €9.5 million are to be added to the state budget due to the abolition of these parafiscal commitments. We at the SDP Club believe that this is a negligible amount, given how much time and money will be saved by a large number of citizens who have been struggling to solve these problems so far. Not to mention that there are great benefits that I have cited before, which is better functioning of the real estate market and fostering investment, all so far slowed down, burdened by the long-term and expensive procedures of introducing order into our country's land register and real estate. However, the rights of all interested persons in the process should be taken into account, and we therefore believe that the solution provided for in Article. 46 amendments relating to Art. 70 Laws do not contribute to the legal certainty of any participant, owner or owner of a particle in relation to those carried out. In the process of marking the cadastrian borders, we think that a call instrument could be strengthened, not only through the advertising board of the competent cadastre office, but the delivery of the call should be personal, if it is a living owner or owner, or through a legal representative if the person has died or is unknown. This would in the first step, which is most important, in order to avoid potential irregularities in the further course of the process of premonition of the elaborate. We also believe that reducing the time needed is very important, but it is also necessary to respect the property of those involved in the identification of particles in this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90779	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90780	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Today, in our first reading, we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, and we have adopted the current law in 2018, and it is a positive regulation which is mostly intended for use by the profession. The current law, among other things, provides for the collection of the actual costs of the use of data and documentation from the official records of DGU. Therefore, the most tangible change adopted by these amendments and the additions to the laws concerns this part and concerns the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal allocations 2020. For the implementation of this action plan, DGU is responsible in a way that prescribes the abolition of the collection of most of the actual costs of the use of data for the issue of excerpts, transcripts and everything else as the State Secretary has raised here. It is thus prescribed that actual costs are charged to perform specific technical actions at the request of the parties and that they are extremely charged for the issue of data when the party does not use electronic data access. This draft law also fully exempts all public authorities from paying the actual costs of accessing and using the data needed to carry out the tasks of jurisdiction, while all public administration authorities and other national authorities are exempt from the actual costs and technical actions. In addition to achieving one of the objectives of the aforementioned action plan, this process also creates a kind of popularisation of the e-citizen system in a broader sense. We must all be aware that the same system is a step forward and that we will all be forced to apply it sooner or later. This proposal sets out further actions in the process of making, as well as the examination and validation of geodetic elaborates, and introduces additional mechanisms in the process of catastrian measurement and publicisation which will, by means of the use of the Institute of Public Affairs, ensure faster deployment in the use of the cadastrian operator. In accordance with the applicable State Measurement Act and the real estate cataster of the party, in the case of a cadastrian measurement, for example, the marking of land borders and the other calls for a written invitation. In writing, it shall be submitted to natural and legal persons who are entered in individual official records and to addresses available in official records of a catastrian operative, land register or the like. Since the update of the above records is carried out on the basis of the request of natural and legal persons who have registered the amendments to any listed rights, any address, this has proved that delivery is not effective only in writing. Therefore, this draft bill proposes to notify and invite the parties in these mentioned cases to be made public in the public ballots and/or on the DGU’s advertising board, and also to provide the parties with written information on the published call, which will allow all persons enrolled in the existing records and which can be delivered, as well as any other persons in whom it is not possible to do the same, who have a real interest in participating in those procedures. Here I'd like to ask what public record will be published in writing? We know that only in certain provisions are mentioned in the People's Journal, but in certain provisions there is another public record. Will it be written enough to be published in any public opinion or in particular? Will there be enough for a particle in Dalmatia to be published in a message coming out in the area of Istria for example? I mean...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90781	Excuse me, colleague. Comrade Bačić, please be quiet, you're disrupting the work. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90782	I think this part should be more specific. The second question is, how many people are tracking the e-mail plates of the courts? I understand that part of the blame for these incorrect data in official records is borne by the owners of some property, but because of their ignorance of the need to change their own data can bear far-reaching but dangerous consequences because their delivery will be disabled. I mentioned earlier a system of e-citizens who experienced a kind of boom alone during the census itself, so it might be appropriate to specify that the letters are being delivered to the user's e-citizens' box. All of us here together are aware that in certain parts of the Croatian Land Book or Catastre and Catastre are not in line or correspond to the real state of things. The owners are different or some have died, the surfaces are not uniform, and the real estate descriptions are outdated. A good part of the problem stems from a time of the former state when ownership was dominantly social. Likewise, changes in real estate were not recorded only in the cataster because of its tax character or not recorded at all, but also because of the lack of care of the owner of the property in relation to their obligation to report changes in real estate and to record these changes in the cataster and land books. At that time, the State did not take into account the state of the register and the accuracy and reliability of the registrations in state registers, even though, as at the time, the jurisdiction to establish and keep official real estate records was on the side of the State. It is commendable that in order to change the data on the name, last name and residence of a natural person, as well as the name of the seat of a legal person registered with an OIB in land books, it is no longer necessary to come to court, to submit a proposal for registration and to pay a court fee because the change has been made since the beginning of 2020, which is automatically carried out. However, it is only after January 2020 that changes remain intact until then. I repeat, I am aware that a good part of the blame for incorrect data, the data recorded is only by the owners, but we here need to find a model that will stimulate people to coordinate the state of the books with the actual state. Since the amendments and additions of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster are certainly a step forward, especially when we talk about the dispensation of citizens, the SDSS Representatives Club will support the bill's proposal with the minimum observations made during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90783	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90784	Well, I'm going to be referring to a debate that my colleague had before me and support what she said about e-citizens. It is entirely illogical for me if we have a system of e-citizens to call, i.e. informing what happens to property, or a disaster in a catastrian operation related to a specific citizen. He can't be notified through the E-Citizen system. If we introduced this, if we're in some kind of information age today, then it would be perfectly logical that all the elements and all the data that the state has in that information system are being used in the same way. But what we need to ask ourselves is a key question. Did I mention him in the replica what the catastre was for? Now to figure out what the catastre is for, we'd have to go back to history, and we live in an area that is very, very long known by the Catastra Institute. Yesterday on the board, some laughed when I spoke of Roman, that there was a Roman cadastre introduced there during one emperor somewhere in the second, third century and introduced with a very simple logic of tax collection. Yeah, it was a tax-paying instrument back then. When you look further, and only in our area that happened with the cathedral, then you should say that this is the country that was among the first in Europe to have a cadastre and it had it in Dubrovnik. The first one made by a thousand three hundred seems to me to be 36 not preserved, but it was preserved thirty years later by a Malaysian catastrophe. So it's not like we have nowhere to see why our ancestors did it. And they did it again for one simple reason, so that they could manage the space as best they could, or the resources they had in that space, and that they could collect as well as possible the taxes, or taxes they had from the citizens. Afterwards, there comes a millet cadastre that is around 1400 and some, and 1700 practically covered the entire area especially after the Turks from one part of the Dalmatian mountain retreated and again the idea of the catastra was space management, resources in the area and tax collection. After that, let us call northwestern Croatia, that part that was under austro-Hungarian, comes to an austro-Hungarian catastra, which, apart from the fact that the surface of a given parcel, records all the other elements related to let's say these catastrian municipalities, that is, what we call catastrian operators today from buildings, the purpose of land even the number of cattle, or treasures that existed in that area. And why do you think she was doing that at the time of Austro-Hungarian? For the simple reason that he could collect taxes and manage the property and space that he let's say trusted or won. And then ask yourself the question where are we today? Today we have a cadastre, we have a land book, things that practically do the same job, and then it shows in fact the incompetence of all the governments that have been in the Republic of Croatia so far, and especially those that are at an entirely informative age to simply take responsibility, connect those two operatives, facilitate them both to the citizens and the economy, and logically it would be to tell themselves. Because all this data we have inside is what it's for? They serve the de fact that someone runs that space. I mentioned one more thing on the board that we're enrolling in the cadastre? Practically what citizens report, and it turns out that in this country it is not interesting to know what they are planning in some area, that this country is not in the best interest to know what is in some area, and then you ask yourself how do you plan to manage space if you are unable to see this whole space in general and in parts. Today when we exist, there are computers that can practically process all the data that we find interesting. It is very simple to make a multidimensional cadastre or more functional and then all the data we talk about from ownership, from real estate, from land's purpose, from the future purpose of land could at some point look at all those who need it and the citizens would know what they have. So I have to say that when you look at it today as being functioned by this House as a legislator, that is to say, the governments that have submitted management proposals to these societies are getting better and better. No one who met with the cathedral 10, 20 years ago can say that they had not improved, that they had improved, they had done what they were meant to do by us or by those who run society, and I have to admit here it should be up to us or the government to see how things should look in the future and about that I said something on the board and simply a colleague said it here and in the replica of the Law on the Cataster and the Law on the Land Book should have been if we already wanted them separated to come at the same time for discussion so that we could see what we wanted to achieve. And I say the ultimate goal of some kind I think the time has come for us to bring together the cadastre and the land book that all the data we record in both the cataster and the land book and some other documents simply make it public, transparent and useful to this country so that this country can manage its own space. Here, I won't be long. These amendments to the law have nothing to support, but most colleagues in their discussions have always returned to something that did not work in the former catastra system. I say after entering this information age, I think we should decide in this home which way we want to go, and that this path should be complete information that would lead to something for citizens being transparent and simple, and on the other hand, it would allow the country to manage the resources it has. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90785	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives, Honored Representative Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I have pointed out on many occasions in public, and for this speaker that land records are the basis and foundation of an orderly economy and a regulated rule of law. A lot of people today's parliamentary deputies have already made it clear that we have a little too much bureaucracy and not a clean book, and now it's time to bring it to an end and be completely transparent about the books that mean a lot to us. It means property, it means state in space. Namely, the problem of unsettled land books and catastra which Croatia has been facing for years has been a stumbling block for numerous investment activities either in the private, public and economic sectors and one of the reasons for unbalanced regional development. Especially with some EU-funded infrastructure projects, as well as our ministries. It took a long time for her to prepare the documentation herself so that we could even get permission to move forward with the construction of the infrastructure. In order for land records to make sense, they must reflect the real state of land particles on the ground, which unfortunately is not the case with us, so in practice we are facing a series of problems at our disposal, the management of space as an important economic resource. From the degree of investment, legal uncertainty in real estate transport, the difficulty of implementing strategic projects and ultimately economic development as a whole. So such unsettled books significantly hinder project implementation, the rapid development of certain areas, and it is inevitable that we need to start solving this problem as soon as possible, and we also see this law and some previous government and ministry decisions and DGU's work intensively on this. That's exactly the way the bill goes. I therefore welcome this proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, as it will ensure a modern and effective system of land of administration, increase legal certainty in real estate management and incentivise, speed up the investment process. The amendments to this law are a prerequisite for the quality implementation of a multi-year programme of catasteric measurements of construction areas for the period '21-'30, and we see it already in preparation for '22. It plans in the next 8 years to rebuild the catasters and land books for 600,000 hectares of land and real estate in construction areas in the Republic of Croatia as well as those areas around construction areas that are important for the development of cities and municipalities. To visit is 9.7% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia, where more than 80% of all economic activities are estimated to be taking place. I also commend the fact that these amendments to the law are abolished and that most of the actual costs of data use are charged and that the actual costs are not charged for extracts, stamps, transcripts and certificates. I also find it important to stress that these amendments fully exempt all public authorities from paying the actual costs of accessing and using the data they need to carry out the tasks of competence. In more detail, actions in the process of producing and reviewing and confirming geodetic elaborates are being reduced, the process of reviewing and confirming geodetic elaborates is being shortened, and it is achieving a faster implementation of changes on the basis of geodetic elaborates in the catastrian operat. The implementation of the technical reambulation shall be abandoned, it shall propose that the notices and calls to the parties referred to above be published in public messages or on the advertising board of the State Geodesy Administration, with written information on the published call to the parties. I think it was before the misunderstanding all the parties are being called and they'll get a call. Our goal in the HNS is to improve the system to be as effective as possible and to be a true service to the construction in each segment, citizens. Strengthening competitiveness and attracting investment is only possible if we go to change the system without resisting reforms and necessary cuts. Therefore, the HNS, HSU and independent representatives support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90787	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Honored Representatives Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90788	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, DGU Directors, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the first amendment of the law on, the addition of the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Catastrophe. It's about a change that has two groups, I'd say. One group is some kind of technical harmonisation, nomotechnical harmonisation, a topic as the proposer has already said about taxes, and another group is the desire to somehow improve the process or to be faster and more pro-pulsive. What I'm trying to say at the beginning is this, and that's the time we have until the second reading, and I'm absolutely sure that when we get a law like this in a parliamentary debate, regardless of the interest that's in the parliamentary debate, and I think it's an extremely important and important law, it would be good for the proposer to say it a little bit like that, I'll just say under quotes, just add a little bit of meat to what we've done so far, in what state we are, where we are, which means hodogram. For the simple reason that even in the debate, it wouldn't go wrong because that way you'll avoid it. The key question that you are to me when this law is ahead of us is, what do we want, where are we going and what do we want to do? Conscious of all those in space, aware of a few facts. The first fact that the correct space information is a basic, basic basis for any investment related to the economy, regardless of whether it is a state, a private investor, a foreign investor to obtain accurate and rapid data. So I'm sure we can all agree together that it's a basic interest and it's an interest and such an amendment to the law. The other thing that you are, the question that we need to ask ourselves and try to answer that question, how are we going to do that? I'm not going back to the Austro-Hungarian Catastre, neither to the Italian Catastre nor so far away, I'm going to go back to what we've done so far. What we found, we found an unsettled situation in the cataster and garter because it hadn't been taken care of for years. Because for years until the independence of the Republic of Croatia or other structure and other ways of doing so, people did not even keep records of who was in the cataster, who was not, what was recorded to him, what was not recorded to him because it did not matter to him. Similarly, we found an unsettled situation in the garters where the historians in the garters were taken care of until a certain moment, and then at one point, neither were the inheritances registered nor anything else, so historically I won't say anything new when I say that when you take that we had roads that were made, and when you take into the cadastre, there were still vineyards, forests and meadows, and when you take it into the garland, they were still the owners that were found not to say '45. no further. That's the condition we found. We've tried to get out of this situation in different ways and we haven't managed in a proper, adequate way by now and let's face it and let's sit at the table and see how we can do it. In doing so, I will register on one project which I also still think is a good project, it is a project Joint Information System where the common information system, so-called. The ZIS unification of cadastres and grantshops not in terms of unification but in terms of data unification. And there's a clear record of the one we should come from. The cadastre is a record containing data on land surface particles and buildings that lie permanently on the earth's surface, who keeps records, and land books are public books entering data on the legal status of real estate. It's a real condition, and that's where it's supposed to come from. The CIS was introduced or started in 2003, since 2003 and the CIS has worked well for two accurate data. If you have the exact information in the catastro, the exact information in the ZIS garnery is a really great, great situation. I've tried to get to the data as much as we've spent so far, or whether we have money on the CIS because we have more projects and I think by '31. We have some more credit lines, and I tried to get information from the ministry, so the first time I got half, and then I asked for a supplement, so now I'm not going to read about it with billions or millions of kunas, but it was interesting to me the other day, yesterday, I went to see, so when you go to the ZIS, and then you have as much information as they have, so how many questions did you have, how many people are interested and how many questions about the situation in the cataster and garland or in the ZIS. So, I think yesterday the last thing I have is 384 million 306,675 was a question. So people ask, people are interested, people are interested in the state that is and what we should do, they should take a step to get rid of the situation as soon as possible. We have in Croatia I think I have the latest information, it has confused me because we have different data on the number of cadastrian municipalities then I understand why, because you have the establishment of new and everything else, we have 3,411 catastrian municipalities that is some kind of latest data so it's spinning there. We have a total of 14 million 514,855 cadastar particles and what I supported and what I think is good, which is that we decided on a multi-year programme of catastrian changes in construction areas because in Croatia believe or not we believe that according to the data they are about 4% of Croatian territory are so-called. artificial surfaces, so those surfaces that have been built. Of that, 70% of the construction, construction, and 30% of the construction area is not built, and I am absolutely sure that the measure of this construction area will make something easier that we actually want all the time. That we have accurate data, that people have exactly recorded their properties and that these properties can be handled more easily, faster, more transparently in the way they should be. What I have to say is this is just a desire to make something slightly better about the catastre. As far as I know, there's an amendment to the law about the garter, and there's the same thing, so there's a desire in the garter, there's a desire in the catastro. But colleagues and colleagues, let's go back to the basics which are, which is the role of those who, catastra, catastre measures. What's the part of the garter is, they're carrying out property law and all the other procedures. As long as it is not united in one procedure in one way, we will not make a serious step. Is it in 2022, the year in which we will shed light on it, be aware that we want to or continue to have the story that the cadastre will try in its own way, gruntovnica in its own way and then in the cadastre, so catastre try to go I don't know at three speeds, gruntovnica goes in first or then cadastre stops a little bit, and the gruntovnica a little, the point is that all, to drive, not to drive each one on its own track, but to be on the same track on the same train and to go further in the same direction. Until it's done, we're gonna have a little improvement here, we're gonna be a little bit, we're gonna get a little percentage up or we're not gonna raise it up a little bit, and we're not gonna wander around here, and I'm not gonna tell you who the geese in the fog used to be used for something else. Let's see what we've done so far. So we have the ZIS since 2003 will almost be 20 years, two exact figures give the exact information, but what the ZIS should have done he didn't do. At the end of 2016 he, as a program was implemented everywhere, I suppose today was implemented the same, but failed to achieve what was meant to be achieved by the end, the record. Somewhere at this point I asked the director how much data was arranged with the cadastre he said it seemed to him to be 20% which is great. We've been on our way, so we've had a ZIS, we've got different ways of defining data, we've been collecting data, we've been recording, we've been recording certain cadastral particles in different ways, we've been recording them from the drone out of the air, and eventually you come for a copy of the cadastrian plan, and it's getting an Austrian cadastre. It won't be a step. Let's make a real step if we really want the truth manage the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90789	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90790	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Magash with an associate, colleague and colleague, I'll be brief, more technical. This draft bill therefore abolishs the collection of most of the actual costs of data use in one part of these legal changes, which we absolutely support. We support that actual costs are not charged for excerpts, printouts, transcripts and confirmations. Not to be charged for data when used via network services or other electronic access points. It's absolutely to greet and support. The actual costs will continue to be charged for carrying out specific technical actions at the request of the parties and will be extremely charged for the issue of data where the party does not use electronic data access. All public authorities shall be fully exempt from paying actual costs for access and use of data, etc., etc. I say that this first part of the legislative changes should certainly be welcomed through the suspension of costs and, of course, through informing the access to the cataster and all other aspects of both land books and all other data that are in the jurisdiction of the State or its services that we can use as citizens. It also wants to increase efficiency in the implementation of the cadastrian measurement and the construction of a cadastrian operator in the real estate cataster, etc., but there is generally absolutely nothing controversial about it. What is a fact and what the respected colleagues and colleagues before me have emphasized, and each of us who has ever met with a garter or in this case the cathedral knows it's quite difficult. I personally have one case, and I believe that Madam Secretary of State will understand, I have some relatives on Visa, so I recently got a request to help them solve something paper and send it, on the island of Vis the land books haven't been spent for centuries, so one of my cousins is 28,130, so there's really a question of how it's going to technically come apart at all. So, as the Homeland Movement, we certainly welcome every initiative to edit land books both catastre and grantovnica. The fact is that we have already heard here more than 3,000 catastrian municipalities almost 10% so far have no books, and 70% of them have been updated the time of that Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Apparently, they were pretty good at taking care of who and where he had the land. And I believe that we will also agree on this Article 46(6), if some of the rightholders do not agree with the marked land borders at the border of their cadastrian particles, such a limit is indicated by the dispute, so let's assume that in a particular land dispute party A and Party B have expressed disagreements over the border itself or the land border. Many legal problems that are very difficult to solve can be born and born. I will warn and remind you once again of my replica from the opening presentation of the respected lady. State Secretary. In the event of public insight into the information of an open cadastrian operator, an objection may be made to the data on cadastrian particles within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1, and shall be made visible in a cadastrian opera. Any party may, therefore, object to any particle regardless of the minutes signed on the restriction, regardless of the statement signed at the premonition and regardless of the resolved objection which the party made at the premonition after which it signed the statement. So just collecting signatures on the mentioned documents through this article doesn't seem particularly justified. I will remind you, and we will also agree in the amendment that we should limit the possibility for the parties to make an unnumbered complaint, because they had such an opportunity in the field of premonition, to resolve the objections, and to re-impose them to change the situation in a catastrian operation, and if the party is not satisfied after that then in its own procedure we should resolve our problem because we are obviously allowing here to slow down the completion of the cadastrian measurement, and it is for all of us both as a state and as individuals in order for both the cadastre and the gruntovnica to be well arranged among other things of course. It is also a prerequisite for increasing investment in our country. Suppose there are some outsiders who would like to invest, often encounter unsolved land books, and then some in all of this give up. But the fact is, I'm going to remind you one more time that this proposal still makes it a little easier. We have seen 9.5 million kuna each year in terms of fees or costs that have so far been incurred for the use of data, these costs will now be no more, and according to this, the Homeland Movement will also support the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90791	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90792	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in principle, this bill represents a major step forward in the situation of unsettled catastras and land books, which unfortunately we have witnessed for 10 years. It's fascinating that in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, it was the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy that had arranged catastres in the time of horseback, and we still don't have a condition in the area at the time of drones and digitalization, and we know it's of crucial public interest, hence improving land records and catasters and land books. It should certainly be said that it's in the last 10 years. visible progress in this area. So the public interest in repeating improvements in the records of catasters and land books is unquestionable. The introduction of a common information system of land and catastras, which has already been spoken about, but to repeat in all catasters and land books in the Republic of Croatia, has enabled digital treatment and transparency of data that is available to everyone through public services and without compensation. We urge it to be free and for those of our citizens and fellow citizens who, for various reasons, do not have access to the Internet. These are usually our fellow citizens with very low incomes, which are poor, so that these and those small fees can really represent a problem and it is necessary and it would be solid and I would say free them from paying these documents that I simply cannot get to on the Internet, so here I am asking you to consider it. In addition to the availability of data, it is of course necessary to update them, so it is important to enable faster procedures in the design and implementation of cadastrian measurements and geodetic elaborates, which are proposed to this, these amendments to the law. It is also very important to monitor the announced amendments to the Law on Land Books, which we have already said a lot in replicas today, which should enable faster and more efficient treatment because we are indeed witnessing unscheduled entries in land books, as well as a large number of unsolved old items, the non-compliance of land books with the cathedral, and still a large number of entries of apartments in books of contracted contracts for which no connection of dwellings and land has been conducted. For example, in the City of Zagreb, land books were not restored for as many as 23 catastrian municipalities for which new cadastrian measurements were carried out in 1968, but only in the disaster, so in our metropolis we have in the land book the old Catastrian municipality of Zagreb, which is already over 50. The catastra corresponds to 11 catastrian municipalities, including the center Maksimir, Pestnica, Trešnjevka, Črnomerec and others. Although in the City of Zagreb, the catastre is really trying to be up-to-date, carrying out new measurements and thousands of geodetic elaborates annually, the environment is just uncoordinated, land-based book older than 100 years. Therefore, for the final result, which is the consistency of the catastra, land books and conditions in nature, it is necessary to adopt regulations that, after half a century, will ensure legal certainty for citizens, speed up investment, enable implementation of projects and economic development as a whole, and primarily enable effective spatial planning and green transition. Therefore, the benefits of this bill are certainly to speed up the implementation of cadastral measurements and define the process of collecting all data for the production of real estate catalogues and the restoration of the land book because the previous law collected only data for the production of cadastres but not for land books. Long-term data presentation procedures will no longer be conducted for the measurement and renewal of land books by the officers of the catastra and the competent court after the measurements themselves, that is sometimes 10 years later. So, this law prescribes the collection of all data in the measure itself, and you, by authorised experts. Then shorter deadlines are prescribed for the opening of a cadastrian operator and for the transfer to the land data base of the catasters and land books, which aims to ensure the permanent consistency of the catasters and land books. It is then introduced a way of calling persons by public publication to enable them to be included in the measurement procedures of all interested parties, including those which did not, which could not exercise their rights in regular proceedings or are entered with incorrect data in public registers. The production and implementation of individual geodetic elaborates is accelerated, resulting in a faster record of changes in the cataster and land books. On the issue of party notification, we think it would be good to introduce a central system that would immediately introduce a change of address in the MUP according to the OIB into the cadastre. It should also ensure the consistent implementation of the obligation to transfer changes in the certificates of the contract to the notaries and left to the cataster and to the land register under official duty. This exists, of course, as a legal provision, however, as you know in practice, is only, unfortunately, partially implemented. And it is necessary to point out once again and again that certain amendments set out in this draft bill will reach their goal, although all these changes will reach their goal only if changes are made simultaneously and in the regulations governing further implementation of catastrian measurement data and other geodetic embodies. So, first of all, we think about the Law on Land Books, so we think it's essential that all the necessary regulation be done in parallel and of course on time. Here, the Green-Left Block Club will support these, this proposal in the first reading, with the hope that you will accept not only our remarks but the remarks that we have heard today which are, in fact, as far as I understand quite uniformly and consistent with the simple well-being and public well-being that we finally get from the horses to the drones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90793	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected State Secretary and Director of the State Geodesy Administration, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of amendments to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. The law was passed in 2018 and a basic law which, whose discussion, whose amendment we are now discussing, brought important newspapers to simplify and speed up the process of new state measurements and the production of a catastra real estate. And then we supported it, in particular at that time we supported the fact that this law introduced the obligation to adopt a multi-annual, multi-annual programme of cadastral measurement and which was adopted in October seems to me last year and on the basis of it is an annual programme which, as we just heard from the secretary of state in construction, should be very much at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that it could go into the implementation of the annual programme itself. This law now speeds up this law from 2018 or we speed up the procedure on one side which is good and.../incomprehensible/... debate heard how long it takes, often and complicated the process of making at the end of the land book when the opening of the land book concludes this process of state measurements and creating a catalogue of real estate or bank, land data base. It's been a long time. I'll tell you about it later. It is therefore good that this law or amendments to the law go in parallel with the Law on the Land Book in order to further speed up the completion of the state measurement procedure if we could say that we have a harmonised cadastre and a land book. So, that's and I welcome all these shortened procedures, using clear automatic data processing and e-mail records and everything that we think is well thought out with this law, designed as soon as possible to go into the process to get a new land book, a new cataclysm. What I already think, no colleagues now Brumnic, he spoke of a history of the creation of cadastres, cadastrian plans and land books in these areas. Since I come from Korčula, I must not miss out on account of my Korčulana, the first practically historical document in these areas where the Croats live is from 3. Centuries before Christ, when the Lumbard pseudonym carved practically the first catastic vineyard in the area of Lumbarda, in the eastern part of Korčula, and it is practically and recorded as the first attempt to edit cadastres or property of the particles between the Greek settlers and residents who were then on Korčula and this is like the first document. When we talk about the cadastre and the land of our book, what exactly did Austria-Hungarian come up with today is almost 200 years ago. After the start of that measurement which began in the Austro-Hungarian region in 1831, '2, '3., and also in the region of Dalmatia and in the territory of Croatia that was under Austro-Hungarian region, this process also lasted very long, it did not make Austria-Hungarian so quickly, it was clear then and more modest possibilities, 50.g. It has been a process since it began to produce catastras and land books, until there in 1890 when these jobs were about and completed, but with much more modest instruments, with much more modest methods Austro-Hungarian did so. We're 30 years old. in independent sovereign Croatia, somewhere around 3.360 catastrian municipalities in Croatia, we are in renewal for now about 15 percent maybe, 414 are catastrian municipalities in a new scale, and of them 414 because of what I said at the beginning, which is this complicated long-term system, from the beginning until the founding of the land book has slowed from those 414 catastrian municipalities somewhere 200 if I am not wronging the director is finished and we can say that the JLS in whose area these cadastrian municipalities have a built-up cadastre and land book, which is good for a few reasons. The first reason is that all JLS in Croatia that have a new measurement, and at the same time when this land book was given to use the economy and citizens increased their revenues, budget revenues somewhere up to 30-40% from, from the land value, so the incomes of real estate sales and from the aspect of the fact that more property coverage is in the process of charging the municipal fee and from the fact that it is increased, that it is arranged, that property relationship is arranged, and that economic activities are rapidly accelerated, which is then clearly and larger revenues from the municipal contribution, etc. And that. We are simply not aware of how organized a land book, organized a cadastre encourages economic activities, and not to say that it is enormously raising the value of real estate. I've said it many times in this assembly. So, we as a country that is aware of the fact that there are properties owned by both the state and the JLS and entrepreneurs and citizens are valorising in one way in relation to one part of the movement and the state and entrepreneurs and JLS and citizens who, for example, are vehicles. The vehicle to the citizens is one of the same movables. Since the '90s to this day, the state has singled out for the maintenance of this movement in its proper state through technical checks somewhere around 200 billion kuna. Annuals for registration of all vehicles in Croatia are set aside 6 billion kuna. We have since Croatia, the Croatian states, so if we have invested 2 billion kunas in new measurements and the creation of new and new land books, I think I haven't made much of a mistake. That's why this program, Mr. Director, is what we brought here to HS for the next 10 years. 9.7% of Croatian territory represented by building land, which comprises about 6.5 million cadastrian particles, which is a huge step from 10% of the territory. It's up to you and the Ministry to make that happen. We adopted it, we sort of determined how much that amount was needed to measure 550,000 acres of building land and I commend the government, and I'm going to commend it again, I'm commending it because we're aware of the fact that so quickly in the 10th year. We can't move all over Croatia, build a whole land book, build a land database, so we don't even have administrative capacity, then it was a good approach to get into the editing of that part and the territory of Croatia where 80% of all economic activities are. In this way we will make a big step and help to make these activities and speed up and avoid being a cadastre and land-based book of brakes of progress and development of Croatia. So this time I invite you out, let's get out of here as soon as possible with the annual programme, conduct public procurement, hire a profession, move on to that realization, and that will be the fact that we will spend an enormous amount of regulation of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is, in my opinion, a big, big, big incentive that we are not even aware of. There is no acceleration of economic development without the organized catastra and land book, without a stable permanent tax system and without, I will repeat, without covering Croatia with all, with my spatial planning documentation. When those three things are turned on, and what we are discussing today is one of the basic preconditions, then we can say that we are as a competitive state, similar to investment and additional construction of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90795	Following individual debates, Predrag Stromar's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90796	Thank you very much. The relevant Law on State Measurement and the Realty Catastrophe is not sufficiently prescribed to produce a geodetic elaborate on the one hand, and to review and confirm geodetic elaborates by the Catastrian field offices, and we are aware of how long this took, and how important it is for the building permit itself, I do not need to speak. This draft draft law on the specificity of the implementation of technical actions in the process of developing geodetic elaborates is more detailed in the process of making and verifying geodetic elaborates. This contributes to legal certainty and the protection of the rights and obligations of parties participating in those procedures, as well as to the shortening of the review and validation of geodetic elaborates, and ultimately to the rapid implementation of changes by the foundations of geodetic elaborates in the catastrian operat itself. This has been intensively communicated with the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, we heard the other day on the board and of course the profession should be listened to and communicated with the profession. By doing so, the profession should know that this law is quality and should be accepted as such because it will make our job easier. It makes it easier to work intensively with geodetic designers then to the district offices for the cadastre and already to elaborate in electronic form we have heard even confirm some within a very short time, within 1 day. 8 years ago when we were preparing in Varazdin County agglomeration when more than 3,000 particles were to be arranged per part of the project, according to certain parts of the project, and there were 20 of them, it took 6 to 9 months to get rid of it. Em was a software change, so the lack of people, and in the end, it was solved by the knowledge of the profession and the advantage of new technologies. New technologies can and must be used and this is everything we have said today and heard of course everything should ultimately be in one place and spatial planning documentation and land library information and cadastrian information it is inevitable and it will certainly work in some municipalities and cities, and it will work very quickly and on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The issue of building permits therefore takes much shorter, especially the part where the main project is being done, and when the main project is being built then it is much simpler to get to the building permit at all. In this main project, this elaborate is extremely important and if the time is cut, we will be much more competitive on the scales that are following us, but in the end we will be competitors for both our economy and our citizens. I repeat once again, I am truly glad that the profession has fully involved in the making of this law, that all new technologies that exist have been exploited to speed things up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90797	Next is the individual debate of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90798	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary and Director of the State Geodesy Administration, no matter what side of this assembly we sit on, I think we are uniquely aware of the fact that without the organized cadasar and the grantine, without clearly defined data, without publicly available information that whenever we talk about any steps related to the economy, it will not be possible. For the simple reason, we've discussed a series of things here, when we're discussing a series of things we always go back to that catastrophe and granite problem. We've been trying to do this so far, when I'm speaking exclusively about the new Croatian state, and I've been kind of referencing myself since 20, somewhere since 2000, so let's say the last 20 years. We didn't make it, we didn't do the job right. We're still at one point I calculated here to settle everything together takes 106 years. I don't think that's the case today. So far, in the process of issuing local and construction permits, we have had and, for issuing local permits, I will only refer to myself for the last 10 years. A special geodetic background had to be done, so it gave up a special geodetic background, and now we have a geodetic situation in the real state of the field. So, what is done in the process of the location permit is a special geodetic background being done before, so the geodetic situation of the real state of the field is the result of this is a pitching laboratory that is being verified and handed over to the catastran. So, the cadastre has a bunch of pitches at its disposal that are certified, committed, which are found to be all right. The latest amendment to the law is that there must also be a reservation of the number of new building particles. Likewise, we have in the legalization process somewhere there were about a million demands of a million, so everybody shouldn't have then geodetic footage of the state of illegally built buildings, but that it should have been somewhere half or let's say 400,000 we have in the Catastres. Now we're shooting drones, but when you come in, and that's what's frustrating me, and it's going to be depressing me, you come for your copy of the catastrian plan, so the PGPs were being done, geodetic projects were being done, geodetically elaborated, for the confirmation of the parceling labs, you come for your copy of the cadastrian plan, and you get a copy of the catastrian plan in the old one where it's all gone together. What am I trying to tell you? I want to say one more thing, Croatia, I asked the director of DGU, Croatia was just five or six years ago. She had 1700 authorized geodesys. So many authorized geodettes, so those doing the job had France at the time. Today we have 2800 authorised geodesys who do things I think about 600 different jobs, so we have authorized geodetics who know how to do work, who have, who do, we do things all the time, we used to shoot with those flights and everything else, now we shoot drones from the air. We need to see it somewhere, the result of it must be somewhere. Maybe one of the ways was, I called it a tiger's skin, let's make up for everything that's been made so far, where we put it, and then we'll make a move there. We don't see it. Here colleagues who deal with the disaster have concluded we have a new measure law from 2018. We still see to do a good job we need 6.5 years, let's cut it down now, and now it's decided, this process will take 2 years. What, my experience which is and which teaches me and which I will constantly stand up for while I have opportunities to talk about, the geodetics are doing a great job, doing their job, doing the best work, no one can, they're educated for it. Gruntovnica, there are some, I won't tell the grants that no one is offended, but some lawyers who need to do their job. Let's do this one procedure, let's try to make it one procedure that after all the catastre does everything that needs to be done after this 2nd g. You haven't come to the end, you still, we have to move on, we have to take care of the garter, that's not the end. All those who are for their own personal plots or for doing so know what we're talking about, is it 2022 that we admit it and do it, it seems to me that. This law is only a small step in this, without a settled garter, without changing the laws that are related to it we will not regain the results. It's been a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90799	Replica, the first respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90800	Here's colleague Mrak-Taritash, actually one question to clarify our citizens. Therefore, the system of registering real estate and rights in the Republic of Croatia is based on these two registers, the cataster and the land books. Catastran is responsible for describing real estate, while the land book is responsible for the rights of these previously described properties and they do not agree to this day. What do you think we're going to experience in our lives or the lives of our children, our grandson, our great-grandson, I don't know what century we're going to experience if these two registers agree, because every time we have any investment problems, anything we do we're always really stuck with, I don't know about property problems and I don't know what, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90801	Thank you very much. So, can I? Thank you very much. So, on a hill of law that we had the opportunity to discuss in this assembly we often, but very often we always burst and said, but my people have a problem with the cathedral and the garter. So, the state of its property, and now it's a story of state real estate, not registered, no records. We don't, we're still on some roads that are state roads when you get into the cadastre and grantovnica you see meadows, pastures in the garland you see former owners, the state didn't take care of that. One of the reasons is this long-term procedure, so everything you do in the catastro, and that's what your colleagues know, you do the measurement, you do everything, that measure is standing and looking, and everything, it has to go on in the garter if it doesn't pass in time, the old one is whether something happened, someone did something, built everything else. So, today we shoot drones, we have everything I, I really think you should take the step seriously. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90802	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90803	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Taritash, here we have heard that for 30 years. We're trying to upgrade the system and there's been a lot of governments and ministers and they've all either started over or they've upgraded what they inherited. It's not a problem to criticize. Here I'm asking you, you were in the same system for four years. And you could certainly have made certain moves, there was also a DGU, there was a ministry, there were laws, sublegal acts. Can you remind us of what you as a minister did at the time to make this system more orderly today, that we can think of it and say, so this government inherited it and then it went in a whole new direction, so today we went into the wrong space or the wrong direction, so we're not on the right path no, because it's not a problem to criticize. Did you maybe have any annual programs that we have now, did we have enough money, then let's say that we can do this, is this our chance now that we finally have to solve it? Let's just remember what you did so that after you could say we moved on, let's move on, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90804	My colleague Boric, always, I knew exactly that your replica was going to be like this. I just thought if you were going to scold me so badly or just a little bit. My colleague, Boric, you and I have long remembered and you have been in executive power as I have been in executive power and we have long remembered what we have done and how we have done. And what's really in my portfolio was DGU and at that point we were doing the same changes and additions to the laws that were related to the Cataster Act, we were doing the same thing, we were doing the same thing we're doing now, we tried to step up about 2013. We have passed a set of new laws relating to the Law on Construction, related to the Law on Spatial Planning, relating to the Law on Inspection. That's when we introduced what was called a geodetic project, because then it was from the DGU or the geodetic profession that came to be done, and then in the meantime it gave up, listening to the profession and doing what the profession was supposed to do, and then I was aware, I'm from this pay phone, and then there's not going to be a step up until the catastrophe and the gurgling woman was taken out. together, but it's a political decision [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90805	Followed by a replica of a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90806	Dear colleagues, we're not gonna make it anywhere unless we go somewhere. I've said in my debate for 30 years we're practically trying to fix something that essentially doesn't reflect what we want. Both you and I and our colleagues are very likely to want an orderly society. An orderly society that we can manage, which can transparently carry out their needs for its citizens, let's say so. I don't understand that after all these discussions to someone who makes a decision to send us some law it's not clear that we need to connect the cadastre and the garter into one let's say document, one operat and continue to solve it together because these individual changes actually make something better, and something on the other hand we're making more difficult. I mean, we're finally not able to solve the problem that we're all aware of, not for a year, two days, but literally 30 years, we've been holding on to saying, "Here's the catastra that's Relaxs practically on, in Croatia today in Austria. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90807	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90808	So that's where I'll give my colleague Boric a partial answer. You get into a problem and try to solve this problem that you're going to first ask how to solve this problem, the one that's deep down, let's see how it works out. When we went into the process of the new Law on Legalization, then we asked the geodetics to see what you would do in the process so that what you did could be the basis for you to arrange the catastra. And right in law is what the geodetics told us should be, which verbally, which in writing, which at meetings. In the end, all that was done in the legalization process, related to the geodetics of the state of play, is standing somewhere. Why are they standing there? Why didn't that happen? That should be a question for someone else. When you talk, when you talk, and when you ask the director of the State Geodetic Administration, and when you ask the presidents of the county courts, everyone says let's do one thing It is important that there be one procedure [[Intruder: Time.]] Well, regardless of whether we're giving a copy of the cadastra and the garland, it's important to have one procedure, while it's not there. [[Intruder: Time.]] There's no stepping out. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90809	Next individual debate by the respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90810	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, these few minutes I will share with you my opinion of the cadastrian measurements from the corner of the unit head of the local administration in which the cadastrian measurements are under way. Before that, I just have to say that my favorite website is an e-catastre that helps me to work a lot. So my associations on catastral measurements are next. Need, funds, of course, that financial and long-term procedure. Now I'll try to explain it to you. So, the need, we're all aware today we've heard there's a large number of catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no harmonised data from catasters, land books with real state on the ground. This, of course, leads to major problems, for example. In the town of Pakrac, valid land books are over 100 years old and recent measurements date back to Austria. They're still usable, though, but we don't have any better, so we still do. Not matching data creates difficulties for both natural and real persons but also for further development. That is why we need cadastral measurements that lead to legal security of property on the property and are the best way to fix the situation in space. Because of all these benefits as mayor, I decided in 2017 to make cadastar measurements because I am aware that finally after the 100 years mentioned, the time for this came for about 9,000 particles on the 2 catastrian municipalities. I'm coming to another association now, which is that there's a lot of funding to be allocated from the city budget. At that time, it was about 6.6 million kuna, and our modest budget should be co-financed 60 percent while DGU takes over the remaining 40%. I'm thinking about how the owners won't have any expenses, and everyone who handles the papers knows how expensive it is. In this thinking of how to finance the measurements, the measurements come to mind and association number 3 is a long-term process, so the city budget will therefore be able to bear the obligation over the next 2 to 3 years. Since then, five years have passed and the whole procedure has not yet been completed, and the obligation has long been financed and is no longer in the city budget except for the court's fees and the cadastre. I asked the people involved in the process why it took so long and the answer was the same, not giving up the party. This took the most time, so the parties, or persons who were properly invited in accordance with the law by written means, and they either refused to accept in writing this in a small number or could not be found or found by a real rightholder, and believe that the city in which the population halfed after the Homeland War had a big problem finding the owners or those rightholders because that person had not visited its property in the last 30 years. These amendments to the law lead to such obstacles being reduced to a minimum and in addition to delivery by written means which is ineffective to allow the notification and invitations of parties to publish in public ballots or on the DGU’s advertising board. I'm sure because of this example of mine that I've shown you that the effectiveness of carrying out cadastrian measurements will increase or be faster. It is certainly necessary to protect the rights of all who have a legal interest in this process and this is discussed in part of these legal measurements in the design of the catastrian measurement elaborates. The land borders and the contents of the list for particulates of persons who have not responded to the call shall be defined. Personally, here are my experiences, and because of what I said, I welcome the amendments and additions to the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estates that go in the direction of efficiency and a faster procedure of implementation because it is the same interest for all parties in the process but it is certainly of a wider public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90811	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90812	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Blažević, in your debate, you said that the cadastral measurements in your town of Pacrac last. The process started in 2017 and has been going on for about 5 years. Did you initially expect this procedure to take so long, because it's not just you? For example, there is more in the Republic of Croatia and whether it leaves such a long-term duration of procedures to the consequences of some citizens' activities that they could take to make the measurement finished earlier, and on the other hand you mentioned that we also have citizens who do not respond to calls and they also dispute the process of measurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90813	Thank you very much. I've tried to catch everything, I hope to answer. Therefore, the assumption was that it would complete the measurements at the end of 2020. We were aware that it might not be a real time, but that's how we planned those budget funds. And here's still going on. The biggest problem like I said, and that's part of your last question, is just the parties that don't respond to the procedure, which is old in the interest. That's why this procedure here needs to be accelerated in this way, and even through the system of e-Citizens. So, they'll still have calls delivered. Another part of the answer to the consequences. Well, maybe these consequences aren't direct, but there are certainly indirect consequences because I mentioned that we're still dealing with these old catastrian measurements. So, the cadastre data from a hundred years ago. They're available, but I'm saying they're not certainly effective anymore. No direct but indirect There must be consequences. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90814	Dear Representative Tomislav Okroša is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90815	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Parliamentarians, Mrs Blažević, as mayor of the town of Pakrac, you have a lot of experience with these cadastrian measurements and in general with the State Geodetic Administration. I was wondering, I came across information that in 2017 you signed this contract and project, started a project worth more than five million kunas where you participate as a city with 60%. I read that the work was supposed to be done in 2020 too, so I'm wondering how happy you are with the dynamics of these works, and above all, for us local self-government leaders who haven't done it in any way yet to suggest what we should pay attention to before we engage in such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90816	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90817	Thank you. Here's what I think I've already answered. In fact, the finances were 6.6 million kunas with VAT, that's what I'm dealing with and what I remember. I must say, I would recommend to everyone, of course, that they go into cadastrian measurements. We have now heard not to repeat all these reasons, not only because of the cities themselves and the municipalities, but also because of the people, so our fellow citizens value of their property is rising, so it's much easier for everyone in real estate traffic. And look, whether I'm satisfied or not, I'm happy in the direction that I went to catastrian measurements after all, and of course I'd like this procedure to be faster, and that's why I'm giving my support, and I think we should try that because we're all going to catastrian measurements in the same kind of basket, and that's very slow for all of us. We wish it could end within six months, we know it's unrealistic, but it means a lot to us too, a lot of it simply for further functioning and for our development. So, go to the cadastar measurements freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90818	Time. The next replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90819	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Blažević, I absolutely know what you're talking about. Here I come from a municipality where there's also been a cadastral measurement for eight years, and we know there's a lot of these problems, so I wouldn't have you with that long-term. I hope that this law that we are discussing today will really speed up to get rid of it not only for the sake of the population, but also for our masters, because we know that when you have arranged cadastrian books, that is, grantically to make it easier for you to attract your businessmen to come to your cities or municipalities. So this is also one measure and development of the local environment and local communities and, of course, the entire county, as well as the entire state. I think that's where we agree and that we really should speed up and that this law is very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90820	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90821	Well, yeah, I can only agree with you. So we've heard all these reasons, and all you've listed is that I just have to tell you for eight years you haven't really encouraged me, but I believe this law will help to get rid of it really faster. Our problem is that all units of local administration are probably not the same with you and downstairs in Slavonia. In our case, the biggest problem was not giving up parties. I believe there's something else in your case because you don't come from the same environment or even similar environments. But all of these things we recognize on the ground need to be installed into legal solutions to make it more effective and faster, which we all strive for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90822	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members Blažević, the problem you have brought about with the non-resistance of citizens has several reasons, part of it is a sociological problem. In fact, when you make the most valuable property of a person as a city and a state, you raise the quality of his property, and it costs him nothing, as a rule, and he does not appreciate it. If he had financed that property, that reconstruction that would ultimately have significantly raised his level of property, then he would have been where and where more persistent and would have sought to speed up the process. It is not for all citizens, and that you cannot reach a person whose property is unsettled for years, you unsettledly raise to a higher level that he can have with them at the same time after the renovation is completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90824	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90825	You're absolutely right, I've been thinking, of course, about all these reasons why people don't respond, which is why they don't come because in fact they don't respond either, when we put aside those who aren't there or where they're not solved or left behind by their assets, this great lack of interest in people, I don't think they understand what catastrans mean to them and their assets actually mean. People like to do something in cities and municipalities, something to build, but in order to do it and build what's visible, we have to do cadastral measurements, solve all these other administrative assumptions to do it. I believe that people with a time when, in fact, the cadastrian measurements in my city will come to an understanding of what that meant for them, I hope, because there really are resources and times, not only the people involved in it, there, of course, are people from the garter, who are given a lot in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90826	The individual debate followed by respected MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90827	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, respected director. Well, first of all, in my debate, I will look back at the commentary or the replica of my colleague Bačić. I guess what you meant to say about how if citizens themselves were to finance and measure and rebuild land books on their property then they would be more up-to-date and respond to calls more up-to-date, but the citizens are financing it, let's be realistic, so be it from their own pockets past those tax revenues they pay in the state budget, either way. However, we are all aware that there are objective reasons why these actions take a very long time. The objective reasons on the islands are very often the fact that land particles are owned by many more owners, that they are part of the owner or all of them, long ago in the eviction, that many of them have both died or died, and they simply owe all of it away. I've got an extra colleague, Blažević, so I won't say a word, but I'll disappoint. For example, in Omislja, the catastrian measurement in Omislja and the restoration of land books lasts for a total of 12 years. So it's really optimistic to expect it to last 3 years. I hope that both the new law and all the improvements that are introduced will do something about it. As far as this law is concerned, I also said in my reply to the State Secretary, or reminded her that a multi-annual programme of cadastrian measurements for the period 2021 to 2030 was adopted on 1 October of '21. Already, the programme has been delayed for several years because it was brought in after 10 months had already been consumed, and then the government's obligation to bring in the annual programme, so that we have a multi-annual since '21. By the '30s. We were supposed to have an annual program for '21, and then here we are for a month and 2022, which we don't have. I didn't get an answer about this program or the annual program was he brought in for 2021, it seems to me that you said he wasn't in the government, means he wasn't brought in, and I'm appealing from this place to at least this for 2022. be granted as soon as possible because it loses its meaning then, de facto we have no basis for carrying out all these procedures if we do not have an annual programme, and this year it was already due to take effect from 1.1. and all the procedures that were being carried out were to be based on it. What will be agreed by all JLS leaders, and I know that in this context, the head of a city on the Construction Committee, and this is always our controversial funding, or participation in the financing of this process, where someone would not want to understand that we do not want to participate in the co-financing or financing of these processes, while we are already accepting the implementation of this project, here we also hear from fellow Blažević and some other colleagues, co-financed 60:40, so it is millions of kunas that we invest in the implementation of this programme, but of course we also provide material resources for the programme to be implemented and space and equipment, so if you want and some material things, so copy paper or anything else necessary, telephony, which is needed to be carried out, however, during or even at the end of the implementation of the programme we are coming to ask and from the Ministry of Justice and so on the basis of the Members of Justice that it is not to pay in the state-owned, which we do not have to do so in the business. So it doesn't make sense that JLS co-finances the salary of a civil servant who has to do this job, and it's especially unfair when it seems de facto, I'm going to express myself harshly, but de facto, the JLS racketeeres or blackmails that if they don't co-finance, here's a colleague and a coma head, unless they co-finance that they're going to suspend the procedure. Let's be honest, so if there's no money, let's get the right date when we start the procedure where it's being arranged, and we'll decide whether or not we're going to start the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90828	Replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. :
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, in order not to be misunderstood, when I told you about not paying, we actually brought programs where we said who would pay for it, so it will be paid by JLS and, above all, by the state and by the possibility of using the funds from the operational programmes. But when you say that citizens pay because I've been in it a lot of times, the question is why me or why did you guys take care of your property, take care of it, book it one through one. Now through the budget, through taxes the one who didn't do anything. So that's one dilemma that was. And secondly, why does one who doesn't have any property have to participate in paying taxes, participate in those who have the property and have not arranged it. So these are a number of questions that arise when we come into the process of regulating citizens' assets on the burden of the state. I don't run away from it, the state has to arrange it because it makes its own way through the possibility of faster economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90830	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90831	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I have fully understood for you and, in fact, I did not want to react negatively to your replica at all, but just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Croatia of course through taxes and allow the functioning of both the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice who participates in the business of state measurement and restoration of land books. Of course they get their benefits through the fact that they arrange their property. However, they are very much funding and directly, so through the budgets of local self-government individuals such projects. We said 6:40 is the ratio of participation in such projects and it should not be forgotten. I always like to point out in every performance that everything we do is whether at local, regional or state level we work thanks to the funds from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When that comes to mind, then all of us, but citizens themselves, will be far more responsible for everything we do and treat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90832	Next replica, respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90833	E esteemed colleague Ahmetovic, since I know you have experience in leading and local communities down there we have been pointing to these problems for years and citizens are frustrated. However, I will point to an extremely effective model that has left the wonderful, wonderful consequences of good. Here in our community there the Varazdin spa, was the mayor of Mr. Dragutin Kranjčec of HSLS who is all of us citizens there owners of the fictional vineyards, the land, all gathered together and said give you 220 kuna I will provide you with a harmonisation of the state of cadastrian and grantovo and it was done. It was done within six months. Why don't we go that way? What's the problem? Perhaps you can tell all the experiences from your community. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90834	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90835	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sacic, I don't have any information on this case. I'd like to know the way a friend of Varazdin's did it. What's the fact about this program, I can only talk about this program because I have very much the experience of 12 years of carrying out, and in my nine years of acting as Chief. The fact is that only twenty companies are authorized to carry out state-measured operations. These are about 3 billion kunas in ten years, i.e. 15 million kunas, each company annually comes up to 15 million kunas. And now you watch when units of local self-government de facto citizens, we just represent them into such jobs, secure 60% of the funds, and it's millions of kunas. With me in particular 4 or 6 million kunas of our part, means the unit of local self-government and then also requires citizens to finance state-level workers, government employees to do their regular work. It's a racketeering. Otherwise, the process is suspended, and all the millions we've already given out of our citizens' pockets fall into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90836	Next individual debate, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90837	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Director of the State Geodesy Administration. Well, in the part where I was talking on behalf of the club about supporting this program, I've done a lot of reference to the amendments to this law for many years. As I said in the programme is covered somewhere around 10% of Croatia and there is almost no unit of local self-government that will not be covered by this programme because there is a building area in the space of each unit of local self-government. What would be good and what I believe is that the State Geodetic Authority will, once it is put into realisation, and once the government adopts an annual programme, exist and I suppose that there is already a certain way of showing interest, that the units of local self-government on which space is entered into the restoration of its cadastrian elaborate and land books will be very likely to be interested in the remaining space in the area of the unit of local self-government. Therefore, the plan defined that a new measurement and a new land book would be carried out for building land, but there are other lands in that unit of local self-government, so it would be good to find a model of how and how to finance that part of the construction of a cadastrian state measure of building a land book where the unit of local self-government does not, where it is not building land. Because I agree, and I have justified this on several occasions, given the inability to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia particularly does not cover in a short period, relatively short period of 10 years, how much a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurement is imagined, yes, and I also said because of the technical and human resources of the state and our geodesic operations in Croatia but where there is a expressed interest in JLS that these units will in some ways conclude an agreement on how to finance it. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic talked about the financing in which JLS is participating, which is clear, but there are JLS where possible and financial settlements are made in a way that then enters the entire project of new geodetic measurements and new land books. That's what I said from the JLS experience with which I talked about where the land book was finished, where the catastran had been completed that the benefits and the war funds, although she invested them in making up so much to compensate for those expenses that JLS had given and participated in the making of the catastra and land books. I know that the profession and this will end, I know that the profession, first of all the geodetic companies have proposed different models to encourage and secure the necessary funds to co-finance the production of cadastar measurements through the participation of the owners in a way that where there are more owners, I know on my island is somewhere on some small plots and 100-thins and 150 owners due to the failure to maintain a cadastre and land book, so where it is more messy, the unsettled entry that there a citizen is participating something a little more than where the 1/1 has been solved catastre and land book. I know that, in order to do this in a certain way, it would cause small earthquakes where it would be introduced, but in any case, you should think about it when we enter into a project involving building land in JLS that the network of that building land is scattered throughout the JLS, so somewhere... become empty spaces that will not be suitable to find, together with JLS, ways where they are interested in covering the entire JLS, thus making such a law simplistic... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90838	Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90839	It's me?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90841	Thank you. Well, I was kind of hoping that this debate would go further in the professional tone, but since fellow Boric started someone else then I'd ask you, so we're now 32, 31. We're old, so of that HDZ is in power on 23rd, so here we can ask the question of what you've been waiting for, but I don't expect that answer, but I would really ask why the Law on Land Books and the Law that we now have about the measurements in the catastropra are already here together on, on, on, on, on, on, on a united debate because we all concluded together that it's really so connected that one without each other simply won't produce results. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90842	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90843	Thank you, colleagues. It was already a replica in the morning if I am not mistaken to the Secretary of State on the Law on the Land Book which should be harmonised and adopted along with this law, this is the first reading of the law. I am convinced, and I have asked the same question earlier to the secretary of state that it would be good, given that in a particular segment of the Law on the Land Book, the activities that we have defined by this law would be good if at the time of adoption or at a very small time between the adoption of this law and the Law on the Land Book were practically brought into line so that there would be no big time between this law and the Law on the Land Book because they regulate the same problem, that's one thing. The second thing, there were a lot of priorities in this country, given that jobs as you can see are extremely expensive and I think they can be found for these funds, for these works can only be found at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90844	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90845	Dear colleague Bacic, I see you're in matter and I actually have two simple questions for you. First of all, how many billion kunas have been spent so far on the construction of catasters and land books, how much of it has the state paid, so indirectly citizens through taxes, how much have we received from Europe, and how much have the citizens paid directly? And the second question from this last replica of yours, the question that prevents you as the ruling majority of this moment to decide that we are going with the land book and the cathedral in one procedure, which is clear to everyone in this Chamber and in this country that this is the way it should be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90846	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90847	Well, I've said it in the name of the club, and I've said it many times not just today, so many times I've said that the owners of these particles and these properties aren't identical to the rest of our assets, and that we, as citizens of the vast money at the annual level, invest to maintain the movements of the type of our vehicles, and at the same time somehow we're not, we're not willing to spend any less money to settle our basic and most valuable property, which is real estate. As for the costs, well, I, I said somewhere rough, I didn't add up by age, that for, for these papers, about 2.5 billion kuna was invested, and there it is by me, it would better know the director if there was, the state somewhere around 70 and JLS about 30%. That's about my estimate. [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90848	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90849	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my distinguished colleague, Mr. Bačić. A few days ago, the State Geodetic Administration headed by Director-General Mr. Shantek presented the recognition of Geodis to contribute to the development of the geodetic and catastrian system of the Republic of Croatia, to establish a system of catastra infrastructure and to hand over the first digital geodetic laboratory of infrastructure, and all through a unique access information point. As of 1.1 this year, a new Infrastructure Cataster Regulation has been in force, which provides for such a possibility, currently used by only two counties in the Republic of Croatia, namely Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Sisak-Moslavina County. So here's the question for you as a professional man who comes from this profession when will be allowed to apply in all counties, so throughout the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90850	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90851	I thank my colleague, Okrosh. The Regulation entered into force at the end of the year I think or on December 1st had entered into the Regulation on, in order not to be wrong, the Regulation on the catalog of infrastructure by which the process of making, verifying and implementing the infrastructures was digitised in a way that was modelled by digital geodetics. And that's something that's a big step away from the State Geodetic Administration. That's good. But you know what, when you do, to simplify it to a sick person wearing the latest suit he's still sick. So the basis for this rulebook and all that the Geodetic Authority is doing is great. It is absolutely in the function of citizens, the economy and this state is to make it possible for the fundamental affairs of state measures to advance the cadastre, the plans, the land books to be okay. So then we'll be overjoyed with the results of the digitization. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90852	The next replica is the respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90853	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I must say that I liked your initiative and the idea in fact that, in cooperation with the units of local administrations in the plan other than construction certainly, the other land that may not have been, certainly, are not in the jurisdiction of this ministry, but it is extremely important that these land for future development, for example agricultural land. We strive to round up, they are important to cities, they are important to municipalities, they are important to natural persons, or to private or agricultural persons. Can this synergy be achieved, this agreement between these competent ministries, cities, the municipalities to go in this direction because I think it would be an excellent opportunity for all of us to make progress together, the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90854	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90855	Once I spoke to the director of the State Geodetic Administration, he told me that there was a great interest in local self-government units, to enter the project and are willing to co-finance. This programme we adopted last October is financially worth the prices that were on the market at the time. In the meantime, it seems to me that a little bit of growth was about three billion kunas. So, the state should be exposed here clearly planned to and that is the answer, went Mr Brumnic, which is the answer to him from the previous replica was planned to rely largely on three billion kuna, which I think is justified on the EU's operational programmes and try to find the appropriate funds. And just as you said, as you did in Pakrac in 2017, it would be good if other units of local self-government recognized the moment when the field profession came, when the work went down. When the funds are secured, additional funds will be found. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90856	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90857	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I think that today we should stress the importance of the cadastrian measurement for the implementation of investment projects. I will mention the example to start the construction of the Kosinj hydro power system and the Senj two hydropower plant, so in Lika-Senj County these projects are worth over three and a half billion kuna. The basic prerequisite was a cadastrian measurement because it was on about eight thousand cadastrian particles in five catastrian municipalities. Land's books aren't even established anywhere, they've been destroyed in the Homeland War somewhere, the data's out of order. That is why HEP, as an investor in co-operation with, along with an agreement with the municipality, launched a cadastrian measure to ultimately resolve the property legal relations needed to implement the project. This is just one example of how unsettled land books slow down investment implementation and increase the cost to the investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90858	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90859	I thank my colleagues, Pocrnjić Radošević. We, the state through various laws, have been working on how to bridge unsettled property-legal relations and to speed up project realisation, so we have invented temporary building permits until property-legal relations are resolved, so we have prescribed the possibility of building and without the arrangement of property-legal relations aware that the editing of catasters and land books takes a long time, that this and the administrative procedure is often and... the procedure and we'll be late for a certain investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why the State Geodetic Authority has made certain priorities where there are no land books, and it is not in a certain number of units, a certain number of cadastrian municipalities, that where the conditions are worst to go there in the restoration of catasters and land books, especially where the largest number of investments are, and that's building land. That's why we brought in a program like that, and it justifies everything you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90860	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90861	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. Something about the stake, meaning financing measurements within the construction area, and also wanting to get involved beyond that. I see the problem here, because we have a number of areas left outside the construction area, which I think, especially in the coastal area, I don't know what it's like on the continental property of the Republic of Croatia in relation to 90, maybe 10. And they always tried to put all their local self-governments in the building area, the state wasn't there when the spatial plans were changing, it's so interested that they thus increased the value of their own land and everything that was possible to satisfy the citizens in private. It is my opinion that they may need to be included within the building area and that the state, with some proportionality, enters into the measure of what is left outside because it is its property. I think that local self-government would rather agree to this part of the inside, so that there is a way to find a way to then in the overall measure, and to get the state out of the building area, measure what is its because it is mostly large parcels of large areas and probably easier to determine this means pure property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90862	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90863	So we'll see in a few days, I hope, when the government's annual programme goes out, which are, exactly, what JLS are in this first year of realisation of the multi-annual investment programme. What's good is 10%, it's important 10% of Croatia's surface is 42% of all catastrian municipalities, so it's just going to be measured where the largest, largest plot, where are the smallest plots, where the most objects and there it's going to be in a certain way... or to me it seems more expensive in terms of cost-settling than where there are large parcels, and that is exactly this part that will remain outside of the building land where, where, where the average surface seems to me over two hectares of each plot. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that this part would be if I weren't mistaken, and then even there could be an additional allocation of JLS funds. And this proposal of yours is interesting to me. [[Intruder: Time]] I think that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90864	The next replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90865	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, here's maybe one parallel or an emphasis without citizens' participation we're having a hard time running these processes and you're on your own, this is a good example of how much we invest in car registration, and then when it comes to our real estate we're kind of here We're not on a mission level. [[Stirress from the bench: stingy]] Now, what I think, and maybe I'm wrong, but you're going to tell me as a man who deals with it a lot, and he knows a lot about it to say how many, in fact, unsettled books and catasters that we now have are significantly slowing down the restoration we're in and that we all want to be as fast as possible, but it seems to me that without the books being arranged, it's going to be difficult to implement until this situation is settled first so that we can move on, move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90866	A colleague of Ivanovic's, may I?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90867	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90868	My colleague Ivanovic, in my life when I was doing this, I didn't see a single project or road, not some line projects where it was, I didn't have a project if it wasn't only on state land that could have been said, let's go to its realization tomorrow because each of these projects slowed down unsettled property relations, terriblely depreciated parcels on which people died, or people whose residence is unknown, are usually from South America, Australia, North America, etc., etc. It's, it's in front of the one who's the bearer, the investor was a huge problem. And I'm going to repeat what I am, so the assumption is investment, a decorated cadastre and a land book. That's supposed to be a quick investment. The other thing is the coverage of the spatial plan documentation as low as possible to... plan arrangements to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and a stable tax system [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those three conjectures, then we can be... [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90869	Next individual debate, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90870	The Honorable Chairman, ma'am. Magash, Mr. Shantek, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we've heard a lot of new ideas. I think what is most important and most important to highlight are these initiatives that are related to a joint debate on land books and catastrans and it would be very good if you could implement it and how you could in some ways initiate it, given that we've heard more than once already these are actually inseparable units. I'm not going to talk about local, JLS, I'm not going to talk about the benefits they get, but it's certain that such a law of praise is valuable and that the initiative is as very good and we need to support it as such, since we know what the current situation in the cataster is, and consequently also in the land books. We have heard a lot about what and how the measurements in JLS will be made regarding building land, about agricultural land and everything else, and what are the consequences for JLS. However, I would like to draw attention, as I have already said earlier in direct contact with the article. The 46th century of the 6th century says if any of the holders of the right do not agree with the marked boundaries... the limit of their cadastrian particles, such a limit shall be marked by the disputed one. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that mean? This means that when two parties come into the field, they are neighbours, they have neighbouring parcels, if one party shows the right amongsts, and the other party shows the arbitrary amongst which enters among the first parties afterwards this area is marked as disputed and the party that showed the first one was forced to go to court afterwards and to court prove that it is his land. It's clear to me that before in the former books that came from graphic measurements or actually... which were created by graphic measurements of 1:2880, and 1:1440, 1:2904, so were all these markings, that there were problems with the marking and there were problems with the measurement. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, over the past N years, when we have satellite measurement and the ability to do this satellitely, we have measurements one way or another, which are 1500, 11,000, 2000, 2500, I think we should allow those people on the ground, landowners to prove and show that they own it and have something to refer to. So I appeal, if there's a chance that words can be solved, I can't solve them, I'm not those professions, but I think that the experts from your institutions you come from, they have a solution, I can suggest a solution to how this can be solved on the ground because.../incomprehensible/... unless it is solved, after that, the person who has lived peacefully for years and has had no problems with his neighbor, who now, behold, has suddenly got the opportunity to call a geometer for free and that he solves his problems that he has imagined exist, and actually does not exist, that he does so at the expense of the state and that other side has to walk in the courts, spend his time to prove that what he really is his. If there is a possibility, if there is any possibility of comparing books that are in the catastrus and which are data that are in the cadastrian books and data that are in the land books and that are immediately solved on the ground, what our representative Mrak-Taritash suggested to include immediately and lawyers, to be one unique solution, it would be great because why we are creating additional costs for our citizens. I know, there's going to be an observation, and it's going to be said that it might be 1 promil or I don't know, a few prominences, but why should we cause problems if we can solve these problems immediately on the ground and point out the mistakes that exist? I think there's an opportunity to point out, here, the border is here right now, so it's listed in the cataster, so it's written in the land books, let's do it right now in the field, not in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90871	We have two replicas, the first respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90872	Your Honor, you were talking about property, something that's sorting out, and what's best described by the garter. We all speak, and we agree that these books, so that both the garland and the cadastre should finally be harmonised and in the very process of the catastrian measurement, in which you said that the damaged party must go to court to prove, if it does not agree with the showing of its neighbours, or those bordering with the particular particle that you are going to, so I very specifically ask you a practical question, do you think that, in order to take the decision to propose Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, with a solution to engage in the entire measurement process, would lawyers be involved in such a way that one step further could be taken and accelerated, if you will, from the renovation to the investment cycle And then the transition to [[Intruder: Time.]] United land books. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90873	Yes, first of all, we need to be aware that the State Geodetic Authority is not doing this change on the ground, but that authorised companies are doing so, and when that measure is completed, the authorised company is building an emborate that is being handed over to the Geodetic Authority. And after that, there is actually an insight into these books, observations, arguments, conversations, court proceedings and everything else. Some of this may be possible, somewhere, to avoid it, but with some citizens, especially with older citizens who have no money, who cannot go to courts, who cannot pay lawyers, there will be major problems. There are and now in the municipalities where the measurements were being done, we know that there are problems, people have warned us about it, specifically I was present in two municipalities where, in 2, in one city and one municipality there were measurements and I know which were... in the field and people complain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they are eventually brought to court and must to conduct it in court. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90874	Excuse me, five-minute breaks, toilet. It's 12.09 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] The next replica is the esteemed representative of Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90876	Dear colleague Pavic, and now we've talked about it and discussed it. What it's about, is that when someone wants to take 10, 20, 30 cm of someone else's land, and when it comes to the elaborate, that's what happens, and you're right and you're right about the experience back in 7, 8 years, it's about 2% of those cases that go on trial and where it's solved. However, there was one proposal to include lawyers, there were all involved and everyone would be involved, but now there would be a more favourable situation that, and what has happened so far, three times people go out, two times they see everything, says it's okay, and the 3rd time it's done and it's exactly what they said, and then he says, it's not exactly like that. So the same thing has happened so far, and then it goes to court, we hope that now with a smaller number of exits and with the determination of concrete real borders and reducing that percentage from 2% to maybe. 0.5% or 1%. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90877	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90878	Yeah, there are cases like that. However, you have cases when it comes there, people who are really old and powerless and he doesn't even know what he's done. He'll understand later. Here, there's our distinguished representative from Zadar, I know a few cases, people have parcels that go into the sea. And then they took down some of their plots where they explained that it had to be maritime good. But they took one man's plot, but the other didn't. So he's 2 meters closer to the sea, plots to the plot. There's no explanation. And now that poor old man who can't go anywhere without a wheelchair, who can't go without a neighbor anywhere, he's bound to prove now that he thought it would be the same for this neighbor, but that's not the case, and it's even worse when they're going to be in a dispute with two neighbors who were like this or like that. So I suggest you try to help these people and make it easier for them to get to what's theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90879	Next individual, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90880	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, proposing representatives. So the issue of catastra and the issue of spatial documentation, it's a question of property law relations that are fundamental documents for any kind of investment or development. So the key documents so that we can have a spatial view of the future of our country, as well as of the citizen himself as an individual. Here we often blame the citizens for something that the state needs to take care of and it should have been arranged because in the end, we are drawing Croatia again, and we had Croatia drawn, the colleague Brumnic talked about it. We had it drawn. It's me. I'll use the laptop to read you a joke. Vic's conclusion is from the cataster administrative procedure. Namely, someone acquires ownership by means of a gift contract, an inheritance solution and a grantovite, as counterpart Mrak-Taritash would say, that on the basis of the decision to inherit it all and make it. But let's say he doesn't do it on a catastrophe. So when a man gets, either by gift or by other basis, so the solution to inheriting a property, a piece of land, must run to 100 places to update his property condition because that's what's happening to us. So then suddenly he sees that something that's been updated grantically, after 10, 15 years he sees that it's not updated and catastratic, which he needs, say, for some kind of construction, location or innu license. Now, to read the conclusion, a man goes to work it out because he's got all the papers. Through the e-Citizen as well, take out a small fee, also, a copy from the grant and from the cadastre, plus possibly the part that's connected to the identification, comes, initiates the administrative procedure, pays a fee that maybe under this Act we won't have to pay anymore and then goes the next conclusion, I'll read it to you. The Parties shall be invited to submit within 60 days of the date of delivery of this conclusion to the file of the case by invitation to the above class of the case to the relevant geodetic elaborate for the purpose of harmonising the cadastrian situation with the land-marked condition for the cadastrian particle, on the basis of which it is possible to adopt a solution on the implementation of changes in the catastrian operator. If the requested party does not comply with point 1 of this conclusion, the request will be rejected in accordance with the provisions of Article 1(1). 47th century 4 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. So from the day of receiving this conclusion that Croatian citizens, I ask that my answers be hired by a geodetic and that the geodetic should do so within 60 days. Have you ever tried that? First they'll say, well, it's a particle that's not very big, at least I'm just doing big jobs, it's not worth it, it's a waste of time, it's the first answer. If you happen to find someone to do this to you, it won't be done in 60 days. When you find that for me, I'm paying you here for all the drinks in the Parliament that we've been discussing today. So we write inconclusive laws, and then under the release of fees under this Act, then we brand out how we charge someone tax for I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of kunas. The situation is much more serious than these amendments and the addition of laws and it lasts and the cause is not only in this country, but I mean in 30. What is the basis for the development of a country we should have solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90881	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HNS, HSU and independent MPs, respected representative Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that it is in the interest of all of us to change this law and to successfully implement the cadastral measurement of construction areas because real state data has just been updated in the construction areas in the Republic of Croatia is crucial for further economic and infrastructure development of cities, municipalities and counties, and the state as a whole because it is the only way we can expect a whole series of positive effects on the development of the economy, investment and implementation of capital projects. At the ministry and DGU is a big job and to create a programme of cadastral measurement of construction areas, and here we will certainly allow this law to go faster, more efficiently, better, and all for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90883	The next final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90884	Dear Vice President, honourable promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues, let's say and respected citizens. Dear citizens, when you listen to colleagues on my right, you actually realize that the air here is different. They see that the catastre is arranged, that the land book is arranged, that it's simple for you and that you don't have to pay any of it. And I have now given myself some of that kind of effort, so according to the fact that there are 60,000 approximately cases per month, annually in the Republic of Croatia, none of these items cost below 1000 euros, I concluded that it is 60 million euros. That 60 million euros over the last 30 years. It means a billion and 800 million euros. I didn't ask my colleague Bacic here how much money was spent to settle the situation in the catastrophe and garland. In addition to these billions and 800 million euros paid by the citizens to get some of their right, the RH and JLS they again paid through taxes and taxes, and there are 3752 catastrian municipalities if I read well in the Republic of Croatia. Taking care of a catastrian community costs about 5 million kuna, because maybe I'm wrong about the data, it's actually the new 18 billion. A colleague named Bacic here from this pay phone said he's been in the past 30 years. spent about 2.5 billion and I'm asking you, where's the difference? Someone, or I'm misreading math and I don't know the multiplication or my colleague Bacic has the wrong data. And that's where we come to what key I've already talked about several times about what the government is for? The government serves to manage this society, and the ability to manage society is primarily based on information, and information shows you what resources you have and then is based on the quality of people or the quality of decisions you make. Today, all of us in this assembly agree that the cadastre and the garland should be one procedure, that it is simpler, more transparent and quality, and I don't know what else, in any case better for our citizens, better for those who invest in this country and logically better for this country because it will be more income and because it will be more economic activity. And my simple question to my colleagues on the right, if we know all that, if all that is clear to us, where the problem is, which prevents you from going that way and solving this problem independently of what no one else has solved in the past 30 years.? I can agree that 30 years ago. We didn't have the kind of information support we have today, so some of the things may not have been as easy to make, but the key to society management lies in the knowledge of this society. Catastre serves as a means for a person who controls virtually to provide information that exists in this country so that he can manage it in a quality way. I said in my first debate, when you look at the work of the catastra in the last 30 years. He became better and better according to what we asked him to do, let us say in the assembly or government. Catastar didn't fail, they implemented those laws we passed. My question is, why don't we pass the laws we know should be passed? That's the key question. It's not a problem... A few amendments to the law based on the action plans we've adopted, the problem is that we don't really understand what we need. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are now in an age that is the diametrically opposite of the age we have. We're in the information age, we'd like today, and that's the crisis related to covid Show could solve everything through the network. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, I thank and invite the catastre to be even better than he was and the government did what needed to be done. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90885	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90886	Thank you, Vice President. Here today we discussed an interesting and important safe proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. In my opinion, this debate today was a quality one. We heard and we didn't agree on all the things that a colleague said before, so we're aware of all the shortcomings and we want to make it better for sure. The debate was high quality, several of us participated, but surely we all had more or less experience in catastrian scales, and we are aware of what catastrian measurements mean for the development of all our environments, and therefore we want a law that will be effective and quick to solve all those obstacles that we encounter in the implementation process. We also heard how the catastrian measurements today last six, eight, so here are colleagues and 12 years of age and all kinds of thinking about why they should be carried out at all. When we talk about why they should be implemented, we are more or less agreed that they lead to legal security of property ownership and are the best way to fix the situation in space. This is our ultimate goal and we want to achieve this. The organized books mean a lot to the citizens, for local administration units, they mean a lot to the whole state, and I think we all know and we agree that our citizens are largely unaware of the meaning of the cadastrian measurements, and I don't blame the citizens, but probably all of us who are involved in this process, and we need to raise awareness of what is happening in our area, or in their area of property. So catastrian and grant books are important for the development of all our environments I said about the development of the state in general. We have also pointed out the positive changes in this law that there is, and that is to charge, that is, the elimination of the actual cost of data use. Then changes related to geodetic elaborate, and delivery only by written means and all in order to increase efficiency and speed, this is extremely important to us. We have also heard good examples of what should still be done in this direction, and I believe that until the final draft of the law in this direction we will improve. The cooperation of all involved in this process is also important, and so is the proposal to catch, in cooperation with local administration units, and not only construction land. Therefore, inter-resorship cooperation of all ministries is important. And here's the final statement that the HDZ Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90887	Here's what we've exhausted from the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item is - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. No. 240. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are as a rule adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Juro Martinovic, please. Please just be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90890	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. You have before you a bill confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data. The contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data was signed in Zagreb on 4 October 2021. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data which are common to or exchanged between the Contracting Parties. The same definitions of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of those contracts, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data as well as the treatment of classified data, the specific provisions on classified contracts are laid down, the way in which the visit is carried out, the procedures in the case of security violations and the issue of costs incurred in the implementation of this contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90891	Thank you very much. Replications. The first is Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90892	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament we had confirmation of multiple contracts. The last were Portugal and Spain, and it seemed to me that sometimes it was not clear what was going on after today’s proposal for a treaty validation law came into force. So what other procedure is needed to make the contract subject to this law effective?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90893	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90894	Thank you, honourable MPs, so the contract is usually both in civil and international law and in this international law, two parties. Since it is an international contract they do not produce effects in, under the rules of international public law, while in certain procedures that are different I would say from state to state, it is a confirmation in the Croatian Assembly through the form of law. So, after we confirm, when you adopt this law and the law enters into force, the contract does not yet produce effects until the states of the signatories of the contract have exchanged the diplomatic notes and confirmed to each other that the procedures under the national legislation have been completed. After that, it produces effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90895	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90896	Dear secretary, here we meet again with the same subject, which three times. I will ask you to consider how to make it easier for our experts working on EU projects to access data classified in other countries. And I'm asking if it's possible to sort of agree and suggest it since when our people come to another country they have to go through security checks, they have a thousand problems about it. I don't know if you've taken any steps, if you haven't, if you have, I'd just like to ask you for information on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90897	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90898	Your Honor, I'm not sure I'm fully aware of what you're dealing with. We do not, of course, have these types of bilateral agreements within the EU, given that they can be within the framework, but it is arranged by one very often said that some legal standard of minimum common standards as a member of the EU is because this legal order of the EU I would say more and more uniformly therefore common. With the countries with which we make these contracts, we arrange a special regime and assume that the regime is being regulated in such actions but only for the public sector. Therefore, this would not also apply to private companies since this is the primary contract of international public law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90899	Thank you. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My question is equally respected so that I can say more out of curiosity just to let us know a little as the public about the current relations of Croatia, Cyprus or whether what we are going to discuss here today is in some near future and we can say some concrete operational application, or how this is going to be used, of what we are discussing here today. Is there anything concrete about it, or is it simply some kind of paper we might need in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90901	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90902	So, of course, I can speak at your level, but when such contracts are signed, it is understood that such arrangements go with those countries which are of interest to sign that there are therefore these things at the level of the state, at the level of the public sector, to be regulated and that there is a need for this form of regulation to protect these classified data from one and the other parties in order to carry out in a permanent manner one unification contractually that we do not have a dilemma that is levels of data protection, here I think so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90903	It's over, you don't have any more replicas. Do the representatives of the board, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate is the first Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90904	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data. It is precisely data protection today that information and digitisation is a current and important topic. Data digitisation, modern technology and online business allow the dissemination of data at high speeds of a large number of people, which is an advantage in many spheres of social and gentlemen..., social life and the economy but in terms of data protection can also be a lack. Therefore, data makers must take all necessary measures to make data available only to those who need it for certain mutual activities without the right to see those who might abuse it. This is precisely why it is necessary to conclude such agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data between governments of individual countries. Classified data shall be all data irrespective of their form or nature to be protected from unauthorised access or conduct and to which a degree of secrecy is assigned in accordance with national legislation of the parties. A classified contract means a contract between 2 or more contractors whose implementation requires access to classified data. The parties agree by means of an object contract that the degrees of secrecy and markings are identical and correspond to the degrees of secrecy in their national legislation. So very secret, secret, confidential and limited. The objective of this legislative proposal is to comply with Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the prescribed procedure, in the prescribed procedure and with the confirmation of the Croatian Assembly of the Republic of Croatia ends its internal and legal procedure in order to create assumptions that the contract between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus on the mutual protection of classified data will enter into force and its provisions within the meaning of Article 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia which, under their legal power, are above the law and below the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedure itself of confirming international contracts governed by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented, it is proposed in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty. 207. The Rules of Procedure of HS this final draft law discusses and accepts in one reading. The implementation of the law in question does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The law will enter into force on the 8th day following its publication in the National Journal, while the contract will enter into force 30 days after the receipt of the last written notice addressed by diplomatic means declaring the completion of the internal procedures of each party necessary for that purpose. The agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus on the mutual protection of classified data results from good cooperation between the two countries in the field of exchange of classified data and is based on common interests and the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security, as well as other areas of inter-state cooperation. Following this, and in accordance with the solutions and standards set out in the regulations which have been laid down since 2007. the regulated area of protection of classified data in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the basis of the assessment that cooperation between the two countries in the field of the protection of classified data in Zagreb should be regulated on 4 October 2021. a signed contract between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus on the mutual protection of classified data. It creates a legal framework in relation to the two countries and establishes rules for mutual protection of classified data relating to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data. The contract was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Head of the National Security Council and, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The contracts are signed in the original in Croatian, Greek and English, where all texts are equally authentic, and in the case of differences in interpretation, the English text is relevant. Furthermore, the contract lays down the legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be generated or exchanged between Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are designated, equivalent degrees of secrecy, treatment of classified data, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data are also contained in specific provisions on classified contracts, arrangements for the achievement of visits and meetings of experts, the handling of security infringements, as well as the issue of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contracts. So far, the Republic of Croatia has signed 23 bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of classified data by EU countries and other European countries, and have led to a high quality exchange of classified data and respect for the highest standards in their protection. Next, I support the adoption of this law, which aims to strengthen the protection of classified data between the Republic of Cyprus and the HDZ Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90905	Thank you very much. The next team will be the House Movement Representatives' Club, and the Honorable representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90906	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We don't have anything to say. This Treaty lays down rules to ensure the protection of classified data common to or exchanged between parties, in this case Croatia and Cyprus. The term classified data shall indicate any data irrespective of the form to be protected against a security breach and which are classified in accordance with the national laws and regulations of the sending Party. The levels of confidentiality of data such as limited, confidential, secret and very secret are also defined. The contract also defines measures to protect and access classified data. As with any necessary document for bilateral co-operation, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will support the confirmation of this contract and in the next 20 seconds, the Honorable Chairman-in-Office allow only a little leap out of the topic, we fully agree that in this place and as the most legislative body in the country, we decide on the level of confidentiality of data, the amount or manner of treatment of the same data that we will send to the Cypriots or to us, while at the same time concerning the vaccination of children, coviding the certificates and the enormous costs of testing decides the headquarters. Let it float a little bit in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90907	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats, and a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable representatives of the motionary. Cooperation between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus in the field of exchange of classified data is based on common interests and on the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security, as well as other areas of international cooperation. Following this, it was assessed that there is a need to regulate cooperation between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus, and on 4 October 2021, a contract was signed between the two countries on the mutual protection of classified data in relation to the relations between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus, and rules on the mutual protection of classified data relating to future cooperation contracts, classified contracts, contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data just as reported by the proposing representative. In addition to the establishment of the abovementioned legal framework for the protection of classified data that are common or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, competent authorities for the implementation of the contract shall also establish the degrees of secrecy and treatment of classified data, the obligation to national measures to protect classified data, mechanisms and transfers of classified data shall be subject to specific provisions on classified contracts, shall be governed by the way in which visits and meetings of experts are carried out, the handling of security infringements and the issues of costs incurred in the implementation of this Treaty. This is only one in a series of contracts, namely so far the Republic of Croatia has signed 20 bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of classified data with EU and other countries and have led to the exchange of classified data with respect to the highest standard in their protection. The following, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we support the adoption of this law aimed at strengthening the protection of classified data that come together during co-operation or exchange between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90909	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90910	Good afternoon. So I'm going to look at not the content of this law, but exclusively its form. Here it is quite clear in the description of the law that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented. It seems to me to me colleagues and colleagues that this doesn't make too much sense and that it's actually about red tape. What is the point of getting documents in which we cannot react in any way? Then it's one automation. Then turn us into machines, raise your hands, vote, not vote here doesn't have any meaning of the substantive instruction that we can give, completely pointless. So the democratic process is fully being played and the democratic process serves itself or there is no democratic process here, and here some important decisions are being made in the context of political, military, economic, legal, scientific, technological cooperation, we exchange meanings in the interest of national data security, classified data that arises in the process of such cooperation, etc. So it's not about the benign, it's about a lot of things that we could discuss, and there's a lot of MPs out there right now because like a cat around a hot oatmeal trying to figure out what's really there for things, but this kind of formalization of handlifting doesn't make any sense, and I warn that we're going to be restrained because this kind of, I mean, bring laws in this way when you don't have any more influence on what's written there, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90911	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90912	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues here today, however, we have briefly discussed the final proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data. The purpose of the contract is to ensure the protection of classified data created or exchanged between parties and contractors, debtors or any other public or private legal person authorised to act and store classified data. The Republic of Croatia has concluded several bilateral international agreements and in the Croatian Parliament which confirms the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the countries involved were generally accepted almost by consensus, the latter being with Portugal and Spain. The implementation of this law is within the scope of the government authority responsible for information security matters, which is in the Republic of Croatia's National Security Council Office. The Office shall coordinate and coordinate the adoption and supervision of measures and standards of information security in the field of security checks, physical security, data security, information security and business cooperation security, and issue certificates for natural and legal persons for access to national, NATO and EU classified data. The Office shall establish a central register which shall be responsible for the reception and distribution of international classified data and for the coordination of the work of registers in national authorities in the Republic of Croatia receiving international classified data. The Office shall establish and coordinate international cooperation in the field of information security and conclude international security contracts for the protection of classified data by the Government on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be noted that the contract in question between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus will not enter into force by the adoption of this law but by the time the necessary conditions are established. It is to be published in the National Journal and when the governments of the two countries through foreign exchange ministries will only then enter into force and produce legal effects among the signatories. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90913	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I actually got the need to say something and finally because of the.../incomprehensible/... debate we've heard. As someone I may be a little bit more of an internship in the Croatian Parliament but with experience in international contracts I think it is important to mention that they do not stay in the air. Therefore, no international treaty confirming the Croatian Parliament has intervention in it because it is negotiated and agreed at government level. So, it does not negotiate the Croatian Parliament nor can it be involved in the negotiation process, at least not if the two governments negotiate directly to negotiate the two parliaments, then it is something else. However, although intervention in the content itself does not always be able to say what is potentially controversial and, of course, in agreement with the other party, contractually and agreedly can be changed either through the add-on to the contract, whether through a new contract, whether through anex contracts, the agreement however you wish. Therefore, in this practice we see nothing controversial, it is a practice which is actually dictated by international public law, and therefore it is nothing unusual and I think the Croatian public should know about it. So it's not about anything under the table or something secretive, it's about a procedure that's been respected and that exists in international public law for decades, not to mention centuries. Accordingly, since there is nothing controversial in the contract and it is very similar to the contracts that we have on the same topic with other EU Member States and other countries, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-04-0.u90915	Thank you very much. We would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we would vote on it when conditions are obtained.
