ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u102843	Your Honor's apology, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. That women earn less at the same workplace is common. It's a sad statistic, we all know that discrimination against women on the labour market has been there for years. This is confirmed by numbers, statistics, and numerous examples of life. But what to say when discrimination against girls is simply because girls have started since enrolment in high school, and discrimination is conducted, believe it or not, by the competent ministry. We have to ask ourselves if there's any hope for MPs as a society and you're probably wondering what I'm talking about right now because this really sounds unreal and totally amazing. So for students who want to enroll sports departments, school enrollment procedures looks a little different than for everyone else. When they show interest until May 31st to enrol in the sports department in high school, then national sports alliances produce preliminary rankings of registered candidates according to the criteria of sports success. And that's where it all goes. According to the High School Registration Regulation, athletes are directly discriminated against by their male athletes in a section relating to sports such as swimming or athletics in which athletes compete individually. The Ministry of Science and Education states that the rankings of candidates for each national sports alliance must be unique in the sense that they include both female and male candidates despite the fact that a significant number of sports are carried out in the male and female category, so the national champion, for example, from sailing or for example swimming or any other individual sport that is measured in time will not necessarily receive the same number of points to enroll in the sports class as her male counterpart. In addition, in team sports students who won first place get points as state champions, so that rule essentially discriminates and athletes interdepends on whether they compete individually or teamally. The state swimming champion at 50 meters will get fewer points than the state champion at 50 meters, because he has a simple better time, although we all understand that it is a situation that compares the same ranking list with what nature and biology laws cannot and should not compare. Although many individual sports conduct separate competitions for girls and boys, of course, because of various physical predispositions, the Ministry's Regulation ignores it and says that the ranking lists of candidates for each national sports alliance must be unique in the sense that they include both female and male candidates. They even noticed this from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, so they asked the Ministry of Science and Education to amend the disputed provisions in the Regulation. Nothing happened. And while the two ministries are playing ball with our kids, high school enrollment ends. So this problem arises in the 50 national sports alliances to which the disputed provision of the regulations applies and based on which the Ministry of Science and Education has decided to prepare the girls of the athlete for discrimination that awaits them to continue their lives. As usual, when something needs to be changed, and more than one ministry is responsible, then there is no movement and there is no complaint of both citizens and entrepreneurs, and now we see the Ministry of Tourism and Sports specifically. But when it comes to our children, all of this gets another dimension to which we are all sensitive or at least should be. In the Ministry of Science and Education, they obviously have neither the hearing nor the will to deal with what taxpayers pay them for, nor even when it requires another ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u102844	That's what we're done with taking a stand. Uh, now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Ante Deur, will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u102960	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Vice President, fellow MPs, respected MPs. Here are the lists of children enrolled in kindergartens of the City of Zagreb. Of which one side of children who have been admitted and two pages are lists of children who have not been admitted. It's sad to see that other than the story of how it's always done and looking for solutions, there's nothing else. We hear we are, we hear only activist calls about the mistakes of the former government. Gentlemen, it is time for you to understand how you are now the authority that is required to do so and if you need to correct all the mistakes you have found in your system. You're a living example that there's always worse and that you can't. I'm always pointing out, and today I'm coming from the world that has the largest population growth and don't have a problem with demographic imagery. Can we be told what is the actual number of unlisted children in kindergarten? I note, how did the decision of the High Court of Justice take place when it came to kindergartens? Please answer us, and what about kindergarten in the King of the World? It is a shame that you have proposed to abolish the parent-teacher measure that the court itself warned you about because you wanted to put the measure into the status of social incomes. Have you considered what uncertainty you have entered into multi-member families, and the numbers show that the measure has had an effect? More than a third-born number of children. Why did you throw away the demographics that confirmed the meaning of this measure and put aside? The point of reviewing the decision is to go for better, not to abolish. Have you thought about offering those parents... or work for 4 hours as an add-on, and there could be a lot more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could also take the opinion of pediatricians that for children the greatest safety is parents and, according to all studies, that children are the safest in the family environment by the age of 5. It is their basis and the safest environment for growth and development. As a young group of highly educated scientists, you could have pulled out a lot of demographic data, but unfortunately you didn't. Your science, we can say, is based on an activist's immature and rebellious approach. That you will provide places for all the children in kindergartens, as my colleague Kekin said, in this policy I am sure you will because the privilege is to be a parent, to interpret it in your ideological form that has been deprived of every scientific logic and legality, and you are killing that privilege. As a father, I must tell you that I have had the honor of defending my country and, with God's love, being the father of eight children, and I will not allow you to disrespect more members of the family. You were supposed to be the public service of the city at the service of the families. Unfortunately, you only happily jump in every public appearance as at various parties overuse verbal and non-verbal communication to confuse yourself at times. It's not just kindergartens that I want to ask the current city government. I wonder if there is a certain deadline for construction, i.e. at which stage is the water supply and sewerage project of the North-Eastern Sesveda network and which are co-financed with 85% of EU funds? What about the Branimir Road project with the traffic jams anyway? About the green policies that were part of your program, all that remained is the waste that accumulated around the city, to decompose and reciprocate with the green nature around it. Can we?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103049	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103050	Your Honor. Over the past week, numerous HDZ myths have fallen, one of the myths being that it is a monolithic and solid organisation that has a number of people, a large army that is ready to win any election. They always win at a small turnout, which was worth until June this year. She's done that era, and she's never coming back. Another myth was that all the other politicians were incompetent, and the HDZ alone were capable, though their fingers were made of fine corruption, clientelism, nepotism, but at least they were capable. And then the search for the non-partisan HDZ was launched because among 200,000 members, ministers, mayors, and soon probably prime ministers can no longer be found. But a bribe of ability, even for theft, was textbookly disclosed by former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Tomislav Tolusic Tole. He is now sitting in an investigative prison on suspicion that, on the basis of forged documents on the origin of the money, he has withdrawn 2.9 million kuna from the eu funds, another and a half million kuna has not been paid off because he was suspected of the documents about the oranic on which he was to plant the vineyard even though the vineyard already existed. Simply put, he heard about that famous painting twice, so he tried it. The money was paid to him because he provided credit certificates from various people, or family members, as a cover. First, according to financial investigators, Tolusic's family paid between 100 and 300,000 kuna to their accounts, and then they would transfer that money to the account of his OPG on the same day or day later. Just so arrogant or stupid anyway, thought man was sure who the bear in the den is because he has a HDZ card that covers a trail of money in front of all possible investigators in this world. However, this card is not valid outside the Republic of Croatia, and I hope it will soon be in Croatia, so our winemaker is located in an unprotected grapes. And the level of stupidity of this crime is so high that it's amazing, imagine that on the same day you pay your money in the current account and transfer it to another account on the same day. Is that nonsense or pure boast that nobody says anything can do to me? So, the former vice president of the HDZ government is not as capable or as bright. And this is the majority of those around whom a fama of abilities is built against incompetent opposition is built in Croatia. The ability here is only to monitor the occupied Croatian institutions which then allow them to do whatever they want. But not for long, the elections will come even if they're regular varieties. In the election of the regular variety, some kind of campaign will be held again and messages will be sent to voters who are who they are. We are already told that instead of hate, we should observe HDZ through the prism of respect, kindness, if not love, because it is not worth it that we hate corruption, crime, nepotism, clientism, but that we are immediately pleased to hate people as such. Such Christians, apart from the seventh commandment of God, do not know that in any form of repentance for sins there is no less than this sentence, I hate all my sins, and I firmly decide that I will be corrected and I will no longer sin. Since we must not hate and even hate evil in Croatia, we will now mention a few examples of love that HDZs express to their homeland, that we are not returning to the past of FIMI Media, HEP, HAC only mention the expressions of HDZ's love for public good in the time of Plenkovic's government and mention the affair of Vetropowerna Josip Rimac, we mention Drazen Barisic, former HDZ Mayor of Velika Gorica, mention former HDZ Minister Gabriel Žalac or the mentioned Tomislav Tolusic. In the name of the expression of love for their people and European funds, millions of kunas and euros have been placed in their pockets, and so on dozens, hundreds of HDZ altruists of all political levels. Dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I'll see you in the elections, at least in two or three years on the regular kind. We are only destined to defeat the HDZ in the name of love for the Republic of Croatia, until then there will be only two categories of citizens in Croatia, which are normal for HDZ governments to do whatever they do and those abnormal to whom it is abnormal. And they're going to win the abnormal because they're disgusted by the normality of those who can and do what they want, and then they're still accusing hate of those who don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103051	We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one to lift a plate by a respected representative named Deur. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103052	239th esteemed, insulting MPs and insulting HDZ members. Above all, respected MPs certainly believe that you said we had normal and abnormal what your colleagues in Split were doing in one hate such as did not happen in the history of genocide, your mayor with such an inert it is disgusting to hear, and even more terrible is what you defend. What's been done again would have been nicer if you'd talked about it a little bit in the way that you've been made. and whatever you do, [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] rather than HDZ having over 200,000 members [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, I estimate.]] And every man is responsible for himself. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] But you see it as something unreal. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103053	Thank you. I appreciate... thank you very much. Thank you very much. I estimate it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Zekanovic, also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103054	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Art. 238, of course. Here, I see that my colleague Puljak is still very euphoric about her husband's victory in the election, and I see that they've had a lovely celebration with Mr. Perfect, and here's what makes my heart big about it, but what bothers me, she's giving the Christians here. She dedicated three minutes to Christians. Imagine if a Christian spoke of atheists, agnostics, Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus in the way she speaks of Christians, being ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103055	Of course, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.02 HOURS]] Dear colleagues, there is no colleague, only the four of you, the four of you, so here we will begin by taking a stand on behalf of the club representatives and independent representatives and the first to speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103198	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, dear colleagues from the Homeland Movement, the three of you, and this is what the Croatian people chose, the Croatian people wanted and so be our people until they wake up. The frog when you take it and throw it in a hot toad immediately out of that water hop and escape, but when you put the frog in cold water and light a fire and it cooks and gradually changes the temperature then the frog gets cooked and dies. Some will say it's because I don't know the frog was like this or like that, I'd say the frog wasn't brave enough to realize that the moment had come and that it had to jump out of that pot where they cook it, but was wasting all its energy to adjust, to adapt. Croatian people, it is indeed time that we all wondered together whether we were these frogs and what they were doing with us. Today's German minister, full of Internet his announcements, says it is not excluded that the Germans will be able to shower with hot water for up to 10 minutes, the announcements are a crisis coming, there it is, we know the story of Russia's North Stream 1. Here I asked the HS that my colleagues who have been in politics for a long time, I'm only 2 years old, to explain the aggression, I mean it's clear we condemned all attacks on the Ukrainian people, it's all clear and it's not controversial, but what did we get with sanctions Russia? We got that Russia sold its energy to the Asian market and we got that Croatia was fassing, we got that Croatian citizens have the prices they're wild, that people can't cover bills, that everything is growing and so I'm interested in the logical question of who's responsible for it? The second thing, we had this headquarters, Minister Beros and his crew, so we knew that lockdown would have huge, huge consequences for Croatian society, as Professor Dr. Joanis from Stamford, that's what everyone pointed to. So, the team introduced a lockdown, we know today, and they knew it and then it was the process of pauperating that it couldn't stop the virus, couldn't hide it, you can't stop 10% of the speed of its expansion, they introduced lockdown, lockdown led to the destruction of the economy, the destruction of sports, the generations of athletes were gone, culture, fall and collapse of education, all of which the team knew, and yet it did it on purpose. Then came the story of now aggression in Ukraine, we impose sanctions on everyone because we, we Croats, and the fasovo is the Croatian people, so is there anyone on it, in those positions of power to think only three months ahead, not three years. And to wonder what we've done to provide people with food. Speaking of food, farmers in the Netherlands are on the streets, traffic is blocked, and we have farmers in Italy, Poland and Germany because the agendas, the agendas, the ones whose tree is more important than the man they want, I don't know how to destroy livestock. Gentlemen, security in one country, national security, man has to be fed up, you take away a man's bread, and now it's gonna turn out to be a real conspiracy theory that someone deliberately wants riots, so don't take away people's bread and every policy of the sea according to it, so we at the Bridge Club are for the protection of nature and the environment, we have to leave our beautiful country for generations to come, but we have to preserve the Croatian people, citizens, we have to provide people with salaries. Today we've been discussing a pension all morning here at HS and we're moving on not, and our pensioners are barely able to make ends meet. Teachers who work in schools their whole lives have less than 4000 kuna pensions, we have representatives of people showing up with 1,500, with 2,000 kuna pensions, it is not Croatia as our defenders had dreamed of fighting for it, and therefore I call once again ruling not to act as a wizard in heaven, or on earth, to create a plan and strategy and to bring the people to know what is coming to us in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103493	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Daniel Spajic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103494	Thank you, Chairman, welcome to you, colleagues and colleagues. It'll be two years soon. How we got into this high house, so it's time to look back at this two-year work and make some kind of conclusion. What can be concluded is that Croatia is in the worst economic situation, and I would say in the worst human crisis since the Homeland War to date, the people are deeply divided and dissatisfied, the state has been robbed, and no one has ever responded to the robbery. Not only was no one responsible but most of those who participated today were rewarded, so the respected members of society are in various segments. That deep division is silenced by everyone, the media silences, the academic community silences, unfortunately silences the Catholic Church which is our foundation, which was and should remain the last line of defense. We owe almost 50 billion euros, we've been evicted half a million people, the pensioners live on the edge of poverty, the common man is over-indebted and breathes on the gills and doesn't see better tomorrow. What do we have left? We have left to fight and to return home spirit to our people, not to give up the only country we have because for it, the life has given almost 17 thousand of the best that Croatia has and we owe them, we are obliged to fight for our country and put it where it belongs, and its place is among the best. When you look back at the heifer that turned to the Homeland Movement in the last month in which almost everyone participated as if we had been in power for the last 30 years and participated in the robbery of our country of the Republic of Croatia. It is enough to listen to the words of Minister Grlic Radman when he earnestly seeks war crimes in other wars in other countries, and does not talk about the crimes of the Yugoslav People's Army that attacked the Republic of Croatia, and therefore Plenkovic manages to send his chat to Capulico to go persuade our President Penavu not to ask for the processing of crimes in Vukovar to give up. Thank God Penava disobeyed him because Penavi and the Homeland Movement are national interests above all other interests. You're saying we're Russian players, and I'm telling you from this place you're lying. We have nothing to do with Russia, but we have nothing to do with the elections in Split. Yes, many did not like the fact that the Homeland Movement in Split managed to achieve the result as well as some parties on the political scene between 7 and 30 years old. Nothing will stop us, we keep going even stronger and more persistently. We must be honest with each other and say from this pay phone that, for example, the son of the late Blaga Zadar should not work anywhere, because journalists of the type Sanja Modric or Boris Dežulovic could be angry, because the son of the late Blaga Zadre is obliged to account for them. When it's done by an extreme left, when it's employed, when it fires people, it's perfectly normal. There's nothing to question, but that's why we exist to question it and point to the people what's really going on. We're here because you've taken the dignity of our parents, our brothers, our sisters in the last 30 years. Now you want to take them away from our children. We won't let you do that. Speaking of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I guess I should mention that these people get to return to BiH embarrassing five million kunas while the SDSS gets 50 million kuna. And when we ask them what they spend their money on, they don't answer anything. It's not a problem, it's being pushed under the carpet, it's supposed to be like that. We won't keep quiet about it, and we'll keep warning about it. It's important to you that you divide us, that we hate each other, and that you divide us so that you can rule. So you made the Dalmatian hate Zagorec, that Zagorac hates the Croats from BiH, and Slavonac Istrian and vice versa. Unfortunately, in a very good part, you succeeded, because we almost became blind without a healthy eye or mind. But we know that, and that's why the Homeland Movement has come to stop you in your senses and in your dances with sickle, hammer, failed associations and kegs. If you think we're the ones who keep quiet, you're wrong and there's no political arena we're not going to get into. Every day a new affair disappears millions and no one answers for anything. The judge in Croatia works for 11,000 kuna, the policeman works for 5, the average salary is 7 and a half thousand, 3800 minimal, so you live out of it and it's all the result of this corrupt and commercial policy that's been going on for the past 30 years. When it comes to the press budget after 1 hour, it's not as if it's not our business, as if we're talking about the Chinese budget, not the Croatian budget. News columns are full of nonsense. Every day we read about a Count, but you can't read anywhere that Croatian emigrants in Croatia pay more money than we get from tourism [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] or from all foreign investments together. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103714	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marin Lerotić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u103715	Thank you, Vice President. For many years, colleagues and colleagues, IDS has publicly advocated and proposed activities that go towards tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs, fiscal decentralisation, fiscal strengthening of cities, municipalities and counties, and, in addition to fiscal decentralisation, to give an emphasis on functional decentralisation, a simpler and more efficient model that would allow counties to be the bearer of regional development in their cities and municipalities. And it seems to us that the good news is finally coming. In all, according to the future minister that the rulings should vote on Friday, he intends to go in that direction, which we can read from his professional works and statements in public. So, the future minister also wrote scientific papers on fiscal decentralisation, and he is certainly very familiar with the fact that Croatia is one of the most centralised EU member states. After Greece, we're right here at that infamous peak. Now the future minister will have the opportunity to move in this direction I believe in the joy of most of us here, but also numerous leaders at local and regional level. But if we're going to seriously doubt that we're going to be watching that movie. In recent years, Minister Maric has spent several rounds of tax reform. And then we pointed out that our citizens don't feel it anywhere near their budget and purchasing power. It is also all gone together with this inflation that we are meeting, and we call on the future minister to discuss here in the Parliament the beginning of next year a new round of tax reform, but in the direction in which he announced it in early 2019. For what we had the opportunity to hear then from the future minister is to quote: "Put a greater emphasis on the pay disbursement so that the labour cost for employers is lower, and the net salary for workers is higher." End quote. And that's something that we've pointed out several times behind this speaker and we certainly welcome and expect it to go in that direction as soon as possible. Because living standards are worse than we are only Slovakia, Greece and Bulgaria when we talk about the EU, and that is something that needs to change urgently. What I should be doing again is essentially reforming the tax system, fiscal decentralisation, and thus parallel and functional decentralisation. This means transferring powers and funding to local and regional levels. Because only then would the possibility of a stronger development potential be given to cities, municipalities and counties that best know the needs of their citizens and priorities to be financed. The IDS has been behind this for many years, and we keep repeating it, and we really hope that the time has come when it will slowly and begin to realise, because unfortunately, in the past 30 years, the state has shown that it is unable to ensure conditions for stronger economic development and the growth of citizens' standards, we are talking about it here in some way today when we talk about the Pension System Act, because no matter how many years and decades we need to lose to realize that this centralist model of the state's structure is completely missed and spent because the rights of tax reform should be disbursed by entrepreneurs, disbursed citizens, encouraged investments, stimulated spending and accelerated the processes of exiting the crisis. It hasn't happened yet, but we're still expecting it and we're going to insist on it. In view of the statements of the future Minister with full right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u106254	Not yet, don't be in a hurry. Just stay a little longer. We still have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission and I ask the representative of the committee of Mr Robert Jankovic to submit the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u106255	Dear Mr. Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 28th session held on 11 July 2022 a written statement by Representative Drazen Barisic on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the Croatian Parliament president on 6 July 2022. The Commission has established that it is in accordance with Article 14(1). The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives began on 17 September 2020 and that the alternate duties of deputy deputies began to act as Mato Čičak on 18 September 2020, or on the day of the meeting's decision to establish legal assumptions for the application of the replacement institute. The provision of Articles 14(2) and 3(3) of the Law stipulates that the stay of the parliamentary term may take less than 6 months and that the stay shall end 8 days from the date of submission of the written declaration of re-behavior to the speaker of the assembly. The Commission found that the legal conditions for the suspension of the term of office of representative Drazen Barisic were met 8 days after the day of submission of the request and that his deputy Mato Cičak ceased to act on the same day. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes most of the votes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to cease acting as deputy deputies. On July 14th, 2022, the rest of MP Drazen Barisic's term of office ceases. Mato Čičak ceases to act as deputy representative on 14 July 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u106256	Thank you very much, thank you, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? As far as I can tell, there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now these colleagues and colleagues are finishing today's work, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:30. Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that is the item of the agenda. Thank you, good night. The session was interrupted in 20.47 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119309	And now we're going to go to what I announced yesterday, as the first point is: - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 308. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Before I give my word to the proposer's representative we have requests for breaks, the first respected representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The change we are going to discuss today is necessary, there is no doubt about it, the change we are going to discuss today is going in the right direction, a better way of regulating how family pensions will be paid in the Republic of Croatia. With certain corrections, this is a change that I am convinced we will all support in HS, but what's the fact is that this change is simply not enough. Pensions, pensions in the Republic of Croatia are small due to the way their coordination is carried out, the accounting and pension will take place during 2022. Losing value, in a simple dictionary, what you could buy with your pension in January will be more than you can buy in December, inflation will eat a great deal of the value of that pension, which is why we as a society have to react, and we have a chance to react now through the debate of this law. The SDP has proposed a certain change, a change that applies in the way of accounting, harmonisation, indexation of pensions, it is not included in this bill, but this is only the first reading. Dear Minister, I appeal to you to make this change by the second reading, to make a step for Croatian pensioners, to do what is necessary for Croatian pensioners to live better, but that won't be enough either. Given the crisis that is threatening us, we need to talk about a new energy or inflation supplement that will be paid in the fall, it is necessary, necessary for people to survive what is waiting for them through inflation. We have tools, we can do it, but I'm asking you why we're not doing it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119311	On behalf of the Mosta Club, respected representative Marin Miletic asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119312	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Minister, I'll talk to you from the field, I'm a man of the court, every day I'm with people, and then my colleague Troscott, however it's his profession, will be much clearer and more detailed about it. ... Yeah, it's always true. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, I was in Osijek with a math teacher who was over 30 years old. He works in high school, he goes to retirement and has a pension of 3.800 kuna, unfortunately it's amongst the better pensions, and because you know as a minister, it's your profession, you send people every day to MPs who have 1,600 kunas, 1,800 kunas, 2,000 kunas and some kunas and on the one hand that we understand, I commend that you've raised some pensions, I commend, on the other hand we know that inflation ate it all. And these clouds that have come over Croatia and are coming to us, here again today all the headlines in the media say that the prices of energy will even eat all the profits we will have in tourism, so they talk about that we as a state, here, are primarily you because your greatest responsibility and you are ruling, you have the legitimacy that we have to take care of our most vulnerable groups, and among them are definitely pensioners. And we must not allow these people to have nothing to eat and that these people have nothing to pay for their basic expenses, basic accounts, so I ask you, indeed, to do with your team whatever you can to make this impact of the crisis that is coming to us, which will feel all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and most of our pensioners to help people not to be hungry and can pay their bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119313	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, the break was requested by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119314	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front to warn us that this law is safe, means an increase in pensions, and we'll certainly welcome that. But it hides a lot of problems that are now being pushed under the carpet with some increase that the predecessors said inflation would eat anyway. Today we have such pensions in Croatia that it is really impossible to live with them and the average pension this year was 3048 kuna, and what is more important is that the share in the average net salary is 40%. It was worse, but 40% should be put in the context of Europe in which that share is, meaning in the average net pension salary of 54%. It's a data that shows very vividly where we are and where our pensioners are. The pensioners are given vouchers for energy poverty here and there. These pensions are raised here and there for a few hundred kunas, but the problem of low pensions in Croatia is generally not resolved, and the answer that there is no money is completely false because money is spent on unnecessary studies made in the direction of minister friends and friends, is invested, pension funds behave as entrepreneurs and invest in the insecure market of shares and pensioners so lose money. If you have a 20 billion kuna hole in HZMO to pay off your pensions, then you don't gamble on shares. You don't do that. So pension funds act like drunk billionaires.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119315	Thank you very much. The following will be requested by the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119316	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased, and it is not necessary, of course, to be a person of increased political ability to observe that both from the left, right or central side of the political spectrum all agree on the fact that pensioners are extremely difficult to live. Although we are in the summer months, the autumn is actually ahead of us, the autumn they announce not only as a difficult political fall, but for our pensioners and existentially difficult autumn, and then the winter that will follow. Of course we welcome any law, any initiative that will allow Croatian pensioners to live a little better, raise their pensions by a few percent. However, we remind that the vast majority of Croatian pensioners are in danger of poverty especially when we look at the amount of agricultural assets that are sometimes less than 1000 kuna in Croatia. Of course, every increase in the amount of pension should be welcomed, but also prepared for the autumn and help Croatian pensioners through energy vouchers and through the natural increase in pensions and through what is extremely important to all of us, which is of course the knowledge that these people have worked so that we can work and that the Croatian state and all of us here in the Croatian Parliament should be paid off in an adequate way and give them a peaceful and dignified age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119317	On behalf of the HDZ club, she also requested a break from her respected representative Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119318	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am also looking for a 10 minute break to point out once again that this Amendments and Supplements Act on Pension Insurance is a bold step forward to the restoring Ministry of Labour, but also the complete Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? Because this bill refers to an increase in family and lowest pensions. On the one hand, it will be possible to receive an entire personal and family pension of up to 27%, which on average means an increase of 510 kuna per month. This bill will also allow 10% increase in family pensions, which on average means 250 kuna. In addition, there will be an additional increase in the lowest pensions currently received in Croatia by about 270 000 pensioners and will increase further by 3%. I stress that these very lowest pensions have grown in the last 5 and a half years by 26%, which we added through the 2018 pension reform by 3.13%. I also stress that all pensions in Prime Minister Plenkovic's term grew by more than 20%, and the lowest, as I have already mentioned, grew by more than 26%. I also stress that the average pension for a pensioner with 40 and more years is now only 2 kunas lower than 5000 kuna, so 4998 kuna, which is 66% of the average salary and which is only proof that we should stay in the world of work as long as possible, i.e. that longer stay means higher pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119319	Thank you very much, let's not exceed the time please. On behalf of the HNS representative club HSU and independent representatives, the holiday was requested by a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119320	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to explain this whole situation one more time. I hope that we are here or at least we should all understand together at this time what the pension system is and by which legality it works because it is a pension insurance system and depends on what is paid over the years of internship, so also on years of internship and how it helps pensioners and not only pensioners but also unemployed and employers in times of crisis. So you've seen that the covid supplement and energy supplement that on the reverse scale the one that has the least got is the most, so the function is to fight the plight that hit us during the covid, during the inflation, the pension system has other legalitys. I'm sorry, but I have to say, I didn't mean to speak, but my colleague Dretar has asked one question that agricultural pensions are low, yes, they are, only from 1,300 average pension 300 is paid contributions, and 1,000 we pay out of the budget, my people check your statistics. So, I agree that it is small and that it is necessary to fight poverty, for one who has no one, who has no family, who has no one to care for him, who has no property, we have to take care of them and prevent poverty, but let's be fair, let's introduce all three censors, and then we'll know exactly who are abandoned, powerless and poor, all three censors of income, income and property, solve the problem, big deal, and then we'll know exactly that we're helping and saving from the cost of what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119321	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the holiday was requested by the honourable representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119322	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for 10 minutes to point out once again that it is one issue that this law may in some way improve a little bit, but it will not solve. So our pensioners, over 400 thousand of them have a pension of less than 2,700 kuna, all these measures that have been taken over these last few months, perhaps a year by the government, their status may improve slightly, but the fundamental problems of the poverty they are facing will definitely not be solved. I will point out here two more problems that we have and we must not close our eyes to, which is that we also have gender inequality means women have far less pensions than men do, and this is all conditioned and interrupted during their working relationship and lower wages that we know are at some 15% at EU level, for the same jobs they receive far less wages. So what we have to sort out is partly through this law, but that difference between the pensions that women and men who are retired are not going to solve with this law. The other thing is also related to certain problems where people in rural areas have far less pensions than people living in city centers and this shows all the research. This law is just a drop in the sea, this is a fire strike that will slightly improve, but the fundamental issues of sustainability of our peace system will not be resolved, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119323	Thank you very much. Of course all breaks are approved. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We will continue to work, and now the proposer's representative.../Laughter/... will now give an additional explanation, respected Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Marin Piletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119324	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, ladies and gentlemen, recent colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Here is a yellow replica in front of me, and before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act aimed at further increasing the suitability of pensions, of course, with the sustainability of the pension system. With the proposed changes, the government continues to care for more than a million and 230 thousand of our citizens, or pensioners. These amendments and amendments to the laws are also foreseen in the government programme by 2024 and are one of the priorities under the National Development Strategy until 2030. In addition, these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act also implement the reform measure from our NPOO through a measure to increase the adequateness of the pension through the continuation of the pension reform. Of course we are aware, and we could hear in the search for pauses of complex and demographic and economic conditions that have a significant impact on the movement within the pension system and this generation solidarity. In these extremely demanding circumstances of global crises that are permeating and affecting the standard of our citizens, we are doing everything in line with our economic opportunities to enable our pensioners to age with dignity. In this regard, it is important to stress that the short-term measures to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic last year have been paid off by a covid supplement, and this year, the energy supplement has been paid on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of HZMO. These measures included more than 700,000 of our pensioners, and we allocated more than 800 million kuna from the state budget. I would also remind myself that the average pensions in the government's mandate from October 2016 to today as we could hear increased by 20% while those lowest pensions increased by 26%. This is not only the consequence of regular harmonisation in order for some to want to show this, but it is also the result of a number of measures from the pension reform that started with the adoption of the law in 2018 with 1 January 2019. I would also like to point out in particular the latest information on the number of insurance companies on 30 June 2022. was a million 640 thousand which is actually the most in the last 20 years. These amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which we present, contain besides the other two significant newspapers for family pensioners, which are the possibility of using part of a family pension while retaining a personal pension and increasing the amount of family pensions by increasing the pension factor for their calculation, enabling the use of part of a family pension with a personal pension to represent a significant step in the Croatian pension system which now allows for the simultaneous payment of two pensions, of course not only as it has been the choice of a more favourable pension. This joined Croatia in most EU member states that allow this right. Of course, Member States independently develop their social security systems, but at EU level, there is no unique approach to the arrangement of family pensions or to the possibility of using a family pension with a personal pension. So this model of ours is unique. However, it is important to note that in most EU Member States it is possible to cumulate a family pension with a personal pension with certain restrictions. It is therefore extremely important to introduce such a possibility in our pension system, as pensioners who remain without a significant share of household income due to death are potentially more at risk of poverty and will be lessened by the use of part of their family pension. So, this bill proposes the following conditions for the use of part of a family pension with a personal pension. A widower or widower may exercise this right when they are 65 years old, widow or widower is the only beneficiary of a family pension and meets the prescribed conditions for obtaining a family pension at the time of their spouse’s death. Personal pensions from compulsory pension insurance, i.e. from paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be less than 80 of the current pension values. In this respect, it should be noted that the current value of the pension and the amount of the pension for one year of the average salary, and as of 1 January of this year, is 73.13 kuna. When this law enters into force, we will have two additional harmonisations, this from July 1st, where we will learn the value of the current pension after the HZMO Board brings a new value on the basis of DZS data and then, of course, we expect that harmonisation from 1 January 2023. So this current limit that we have calculated according to the current value of the current pension is 5,850 kuna. This does not mean that it will be a limit as soon as the law enters into force. Furthermore, the amount of part of the family pension is proposed in the same percentage for all users of 27% of the family pension, with a minimum and maximum amount being prescribed. The minimum amount is determined at the level of three current pension values, which according to the current AVM value is 219 kuna 39 lipa, but cannot be more than 50% of the family pension. The maximum total income is the sum of personal pensions and part of the family pension and, as I said, cannot amount to more than 80 AVMs mentioned. Part of the family pension would also be coordinated in the same way as pensions, and the possibility of working until half full-time with the use of personal and family pensions is foreseen. The right to part of a family pension with a personal pension will be effected by applying and belonging from the first day of the following month after the application is made six months back, but at the earliest of the day of fulfilment of the conditions for the acquisition of that right. In this respect, it should be pointed out that users of old, early age or disability pensions who will submit a request for payment of part of the family pension by 31 December 2023 at the latest. Part of the family pension will take place from 1 January 2023. So, no matter what they file for it until the end of '23. have the right to pay off from 1 January of that year. This exemption for the exercise of the right retroactively a year ago if the application is submitted until the end of '23. it is prescribed to leave the pensioners with an adequate period of time to submit applications or to ensure conditions for timely information and introduction to the new Institute in the pension system. It is estimated that this paper will cover more than 155,000 users and if we look at the increase in the battery then it is an average increase in total income by more than 510 kuna per month. According to HZMO statistics, without the international contracts included, the average family pension paid in June was 2,458 kuna, while the average pension was 3,048 kuna, we could hear it for a little while. When we look at the structure of low-income pensioners, it is evident that family pensioners receive more than 213,000 pensions below the average pension. Therefore, in order to increase the minimum family pensions and the level of their adequateness, we propose an increase in the pension factor for their calculation. According to the bill, the pension factor for the calculation of the family pension is increasing from the current 0.70 for one family member to 0.77, from the current 0.8 pension factor for two family members to 0.88, and from the current 0.9 for three or more family members to 1.0. This change in family pension will increase by about 10% on average, covering more than 13,000 people. Thus, their pensions would again be increased by an average of 250 kuna per month by sharing their pensions with the number of pensioners. Furthermore, it is important to highlight an additional gradual increase in the minimum pension of 3% since 1 January of '23, so by applying the law by 1.5% and then from 1 January 2025 to an additional 1.5. Only in 2023. This will result in an increase in pensions by 287,000 people in the lowest pensions, which will further raise the lower level of pension insurance rights. It is not worth recalling that the pension reform of 1 July 2019 The minimum pension additionally increased by more than 3% continues to be regularly harmonised from 1 January and 1 July each calendar year. With these changes, we send a clear signal that we care for a particularly sensitive group of pensioners who rarely live in single households and who have lower incomes and are at the highest risk of poverty. In addition to these three key changes, it is important to say that the proposed amendments to the law are exempt from the family pensions used by children of the deceased insurance company for the equal status of children whose family pension is maintenance income. It is also proposed to facilitate work with simultaneous pension payments to professional firefighters as well as active military personnel and police officers retired before '99. who can work part-time, receive 100% pensions or who can work full-time with a 50% pension payment. It is of course a category of pensioners who are of a younger age with special skills and competences and for whom there is a need to provide additional labour in deficits. Thus, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we further extend the circle of pensioners who can work at the same time as the pension payment. The number of pensioners benefiting from the possibility of working at the same time as the pension is on a continuous increase, and according to the latest data, 22,800 pension workers provide additional income, thus ensuring that workers of older age are present on the labour market. Furthermore, the proposed amendments to the law allow for the termination of the characteristics of insurance undertakings on a personal request for craftsmen and persons who carry out their own professional activity, such as lawyers, journalists, doctors, in cases of temporary suspension or stay out of business, which has not been possible so far. The other amendments concern horizontal alignment with the rules adopted in the meantime, and the infringement provisions and inspection control provisions have been amended to adapt the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia to the introduction of the euro as a national currency. In order to implement the law and ensure payment and increase the rights of beneficiaries of family and minimum pensions, additional funding in the state budget has been provided and only for the following year, amounting to an additional billion and 217 million kuna. The proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act continue to act on improving the situation and extending the material rights of pensioners. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposed changes will have a positive impact in the long term on the movement and increase solidarity in the pension system, and thus we send a clear message that in the circumstances of the crisis, the government's priority is to ensure social security for all our citizens, especially those with the lowest pension incomes and, of course, reduce the risks of their poverty and social exclusion. I hope that through the debate, we will achieve a high degree of consensus on the proposed changes, but I also need to respond to these opening statements by several parliamentary representatives. Of course we all agree in this home and in the government that pensions for our pensioners should be bigger, but we must also be aware that according to current statistics, if we look at all pensioners, our average retirement time is only 30 years. We know what the indicators are in the West, and we know about the North European countries that I'm not talking about. There, the average has already crossed 40 years of retirement. So, long-term sustainability, adequateness, financial literacy, that since the first day of retirement, or insurance staff, we are thinking about what kind of pension we will have, and not that we are thinking about it six months before we reach conditions and also stress that through the pension reform and the one from 2019 and 2021, and now from 2022, we really want to enable as many users of pensions as possible to do additional work. If we take into account only our pensioners first achieved their pension rights in this year, then the average pension rate has already reached 34 years, so the current pensioners who will receive their pension for the first time this year will have an average retirement period of 34 years, so this is an indicator and we are going towards this step, we follow European trends, but that we should all take further steps here together, so that these proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are not some end, the final reform of the pension system of this government, but by parallelly sending this amendment and the addition of the laws to HS we have sent to all interested, so to representatives of the retirement associations, the academic community, political parties dealing with the issues of pensioners, to all to participate in the formation of the working group so that after these amendments and the addition of the laws, and after 20. The functioning of this pension system, we celebrated this year and 20 years. Retirement insurance companies, this year is also being prepared for 20 years. celebrations of compulsory pension funds, hence, after 20 years. This kind of pension system we are going to thoroughly analyse where we are, what we are, and how we can further improve the status of our pensioners. Vice President, that would be all for introduction, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119325	Thank you very much. You will stay long enough for this speaker, we have 34 replicas of which most were raised before you came to the speakers, but let's go in turn, the first respected representative is Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, for a long time these things have been discussed in Croatia, they have begun to happen. The NPOO for 2021-2026 within component C4 of the labour market and social protection identified a reform measure, an increase in the adequateness of pensions through the continuation of the pension reform identified among other things by the redefining of the family pension model. Can you explain to us what it is and why it is necessary to increase family pensions, but I think the whole focus of this law is also the focus of... on those family pensions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119327	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119328	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative, I have already said in the opening section, so family pensions, the average family pension is less than 2,500 kuna, if compared to the average pension is significantly lower. That is why, by respecting both the government programme and meeting NPOO reforms, we redefine family pensions, as well as how? So to all current family pension users and to all who will only become family pension beneficiaries, we are increasing the start of a family pension by 10% by increasing pension factors, so this is one level of law proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law. The second option is therefore if someone is a beneficiary of a family pension and does not use his own personal pension, and the calculation would show him that he would have more income if he returned to his personal life, and kept 27% of the family's housing would have been greater, so these are additional steps that never existed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119329	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119330	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the IDS Representatives' Club always welcomes the changes in laws that contribute to the improvement of our citizens' lives, including in this case our pensioners, but we believe that these changes will not make life easier for our pensioners to the end. The IDS Club also joins an appeal from the Association of Retired People who, of course, ask you and your ministry to change the bad formula for harmonising pensions. Will you and when will you go change that bad formula? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119331	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119332	Thank you very much. So at the National Council for Senior Retired People, we have just discussed this topic with representatives of the Croatian Retired Union and representatives of the Croatian Retired Mother who propose re-change of the formula for harmonising pensions. You know that by reforming 2019, this formula with 50-50 is therefore to an index of price increases and wage increases increased to a ratio of 70:30 in favour of the more favourable index, or one that grows higher. Of course, we have also responded to these 2019 reforms that this 50-50 model was not adequate. We are now going into these amendments and additions to the law and definitely one of the measures that, and I mentioned this because of the establishment of a working group and the reanalysis of the pension system and the amendments and the addition of the law next year to think about a more favourable model of harmonisation, but this is not currently a proposal for these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119333	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, so very plastic, what's going on since 1.1.2023.g., 287 thousand pensioners will get 30 kuna, 136 thousand pensioners will get 250 kuna, so 136 will get 250 kuna, these 287 will get 30 kuna. Now the question is, can anything up to the second reading, I'm talking about the lowest pension, is those who have, really have the lowest pension, and that's 30 kunas, right, that's those 1.5%, just as you've come in at all since that 1.5% is 100 million kuna, right? Let's be honest, it's negligible in total this part, the whole package is a billion and 200. If we can't find another piece of money for the lowest, which costs 100 million kuna, and this is a political decision. Please until the second reading we will support you here, but let the citizens who in this inflation are really struggling to make these 30 kunas at least a little bit better, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119335	Thank you. Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119336	Thank you very much. My colleague Lalovac, of course, and we've thought about it, but I repeat, in 2019, the lowest pensions have increased by an additional 3%, we are now going again with a 3% increase on July 1st and the lowest will be harmonised through the formula of coordination and we expect this harmonisation to be one of the biggest. However, the users of the lowest pensions are also covered by this bill through family pension. You have a large number of users of the lowest pensions that are users of family pensions. To them, which happens on January 1st, not 30 kuna, but coordination and from January 1st, respecting the harmonisation of this formula 70, 30 of July 1, 1 and a half percent of the additional harmonisation, 10% for family pensioners and the possibility of using part of the family pension 27%. It's not just 30 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119337	The Honorable representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119338	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor. The government of the Republic of Croatia acted through a series of rounds of tax reform, then a series of measures especially during the time of the epidemic but during this inflationary time both on the preservation of jobs and on the social security of employees, of course pensioners reducing the risk of poverty. I ask you once again for the sake of our public, to tell these amendments to the law how directly they will be allocated from the state budget in the coming years for pension incomes in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119339	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119340	So just for these changes, we said that the increase in the total amount of funding from the pension budget would increase by a billion and 217 million kuna. This amount is based only on these amendments and the addition of the law, not counting regular harmonisation, so it amounts to a billion and 470 million kuna. In 2025, the estimated amount is billions and 706 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119341	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119342	Thank you. I asked one question, so I'd be back on the board since yesterday, but before he does, you're saying here in this bill that 277,000 users are the lowest pensioners. So these users, it's a number that only applies to those lowest pensions. How much is a pensioner at risk of poverty? It's a vastly larger number than what you address here as a problem. Yeah? So he can have one kuna more pension not to get into this fund means to those who are raising their pensions. But more than 52% of pensioners are retired below the poverty line by some estimates. So that's what I'm talking about. But as far as the answer is concerned, we don't always have the money. I'm asking that question again. There is money but is invested in shares, there is a game of entrepreneurship of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and people are losing money. So instead of paying people off, I get paid on some fictitious market, and don't answer me that's not true, because it's really being manipulated by data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119343	Thank you. Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119344	Thank you very much, dear representative Peovic. So we don't have exactly how many of our pensioners are at risk of poverty. That's the assessment. We have concrete information as to how many users of the lowest pension. We have also heard in these amendments and additions to the law, and we have ruled out both the income and the property price, and we have not included, therefore, in the use of part of the personal property of the foreign pension. So we don't have that data. Therefore, it is not that the users of the lowest pensions are always, and most often they are always at risk of poverty. As far as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is concerned, that's what I answered yesterday. As for capitalised savings, funds must be played by entrepreneurs. It is their legal duty to capitalise our payments, to contribute from the second pillar. But it's not safe for people to lose money for the reason that according to all the reports, therefore the capitalised savings have been fertilized and there are much greater amounts of pension payments than contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119345	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119346	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. We all know that retirement is extremely stressful for every man except for the psychological and any other problems that arise is certainly one of the existential problems, because we also know how much pension it must be less than the salary, or income that the citizens had until then. In particular, it is a stressful loss of a spouse and are threatened by poverty especially by the ageing single household. And this government, and I kind of want to thank now and in this replica the initiator of the amendment of this law and the project and the Government that accepted it, which is that for the first time in Croatia it will be possible to use two pensions or one pension, part of the pension, and that is one significant undertaking. What this law is yet to pass, I would like you to make it more tax-simplified for the citizens to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119347	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119348	So here's what I agree with my colleague Murganic's statement. Of course, the government has decided, through its strategic documents and through the NPO, but also in cooperation with MP Hrelja, that we are going into these amendments and amendments to the law, to strengthen family pensions, and we have already, therefore, taxed everything. So we increase family pensions by more than 130 000 users, by more than 150 possibility of using family and personal pensions and of course more than 280 000 users of the lowest pension in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119349	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119350	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. First of all, you are a young star in the Croatian political sky. I think you're currently judging by a group of your fanatic fans more popular than Peter Grasa and Gigony together. But this is what we're talking about,... Please, I'm talking! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It seems to me that this is a political law, although its goal is good and positive we saw a few days ago that a law was withdrawn from the procedure, and then you seem to me very skilled in your ministry by reading copy paste regulations in Microsoft word program brought this Law as yours, which I sincerely congratulate. But let me ask you. You have not answered the question of the esteemed representative of Lalovec precisely. If that's not 30 kuna, how much is that going to increase for those with the lowest pensions exactly? Do you have a calculation, say, for the beginning of next year? And I'm only telling you, mair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119351	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119352	Thank you very much. So, never the popularity of anything was of interest. For 20 years, on the political scene of Croatia, mostly the local level, I got the trust of my fellow citizens, if I could do something, I did, if I didn't, all of us eventually end up. As for the actual number, there is no specific number. There are no 30 kunas. As neither 250 nor 510, we said on average. So the lowest pension is calculated by the current value of the pension times the year of the internship. You have the lowest pensions of 1090 kuna and you have the lowest pensions of nearly 3000 kuna. So count, times 1.5% times the alignment that will come now with 1.7. If they're users of some other pensions, we said, family 10, if they're using part of the family, another plus 27% on your personal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119353	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119354	Thank you, dear Minister Chicken. I certainly welcome the continuation of the pension reform and through this increase in family pensions and the lowest pensions, and I consider it a brave and reform step, especially in the light of all the circumstances in which we are. Now, what I want to point out is that the 2018 pension reform allowed an additional six-month period for mothers and adoptive women, which ultimately gives them 2% higher pension per child. What I want to ask you is how advanced is the position of women and their social security through pension and other systems, and what is generally done here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119355	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119356	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Buric, it's a brave reform step. Nothing more than a continuation of the government's reform in improving the so-called pension system. And in 2019, I repeat, there was a reform of the pension system, 2021, and now we're going to 2022 with the application of January 1, 2023 and we're not stopping. We continue to consider sustainability and the adequateness of the pension system. As for therefore the secondment for mothers and adoptors, so the government also proposed, the Parliament adopted in 2019, so for each child, an additional 2% goes to the pension calculation. So that's what the pension system is all about, especially when we talk about women and also this Law, we've actually included the largest number of pensioners, so women, since family pensioners are the rule. 93% of women. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119357	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119358	Dear Minister. I'm interested in somewhere, according to some data, we have some 400,000 pensioners who are receiving pensions below that poverty line when this is summed up cumulatively within 12 months, so I'm wondering if you have specific or at least indicative data on how many pensioners will rise above this poverty line with these changes in the pension system?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119359	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119360	Thank you very much. So I repeat, the pension insurance system is the result of the course of retirement, and when we talk about smaller incomes, the lowest pensions, it's actually work. 30 years is really an average internship that is very low. If we're only looking at this year, then that internship for the first 2022 users is already on average 34 years. We expect that if we look at this part of our family and family pension alone, then more than 213 thousand of our pensioners will be included. These are significant revenues if we only talk about this 10% increase, it's an average of 250 kuna, if we're talking about the average use of part of your family's pension, it's more than 510 kuna per month. So we'll see only when the demands of how many have returned to the personal, use part of the family and how much will continue to use them for a family pension. ... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119361	Intruder: Dear Representative Maric./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119362	Then you can get specific information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119363	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've explained something orally, and it's written in an article. 21, that by the end of 2023, demands will be submitted, but they will be recognised retrogradely, whether, since 1.1.2023, we would say that there is enough time for people to be informed and to submit requests. As little as I've looked at different calculations, there are all sorts of variations, so people will have to practically choose what's more favourable to them and file a request. However, there are many of our citizens who really live in bad living conditions, have no television or telephone, so I don't know how you'll get to them and how you'll inform them, how will you, I don't know, send some brochures through mail or how you intend to get to these people who can't really be informed on this regular basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119364	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119365	Thank you very much. I did not say in the opening part, so 2 rights, an increase in the family's pension to 10% goes by automation, a solution by HZMO, no demands are submitted, but the pension factor increases by 10%, there is no need for any applications, calls, calculations, but it is solved by automation, as well as an increase in the lowest pensions. Here we are talking about a model in the use of part of a family pension where really users have to calculate what is more favourable to them, so we have given a pretty long deadline something that has so far been envisaged by law, so by using the right to that part, they can use since 1 January 2023 all to submit their request on the last day of that year. The same thing we have made possible for those who may not do so until 31.12. HZMO will launch an active campaign after first reading [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] No one who has the right will be denied [[Thank you very much.]] And that's what it's [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Do HZMO. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119366	Thank you Minister, we have to stick to the weather. Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119367	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. These proposed changes will certainly improve the position and extend the material rights of our pensioners. The NPOO programme, as a continuation of the reform, actually provides for what is now proposed, and I ask you to say for all people what will it and for what number of people exactly do good?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119368	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119369	Well, here's a thank you to my colleague, Grba Bujevic. So, I've already mentioned three rights for, two rights for family pensions, so everyone who has the right to a family pension knows what that means for them to benefit from a 10% increase or to use their own personal pension with the possibility of using a 27% share of the family pension. However, not only are these amendments and additions to this law, you have seen that we have excluded the family pensions that the children of the deceased insurance company receive from the exercise by thus allowing the same standard to all who are excluded from the performance, that we are here present in the law of the active military person, police officers, people who work in demining have added professional firefighters that they can also use full-time full-time opportunities with half the pension or that they use half the full-time while receiving full-time, given that they really need them on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119370	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119371	Thank you. Dear Ministers, one of the three changes this law makes is therefore an increase in family pensions by 10%. You said several times today, though incorrectly, that all family pensions increase by 10% through the rise of the pension factor, that is not true. We raise family pensions by 10% except for that category of insurance who receive family pensions where there are four and more users. For four and more users, the pension factor was 1 and it remained 1, but now this seems to me very wrong because if a family pension receives a family where four and more users are then it is clear that the social situation there is the most difficult. And now we come to these amendments and the additions of the law to the situation to take care of the family pensions of everyone else just not those who are actually the most endangered. Can you comment on that, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119372	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119373	The question is whether they're the most endangered, but you're right, so we don't raise all four because they did, but we're raising the pension factor for family pensioners from three so far who've had 0.9 to 0.1. Okay, I also accept this suggestion of yours, so we don't raise these who are four or more family pension beneficiaries so far, with them having the most advantageous factor of 1% so far. ... Yes, you're right there, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119374	The Honorable Representative of the District. Thank you. Let's not communicate like that. The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119375	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. The Honorable Ministers. What are the conditions for achieving part of a family pension with a personal pension, and who can accomplish all this? So here's a specific question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119376	Dear Minister Piletic. Can we please just shut up for a second? I think other speakers were distracted in their time, and now let's let the minister and the rest of the MPs have their peace. Who won't listen to them doesn't have to be here, right? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119377	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I have already said in the opening statement, therefore, the conditions for the use of part of the family peacemaker Okroš are that a widower or widower can exercise this right when they are 65 years old. We know the conditions for a family pension, nothing in the law has changed who has the right to have a family pension, but for a part of a family pension, the user can only be a surviving member of the marriage community that is the sole beneficiary of a family pension and of course that meets the conditions for obtaining a family pension at the time of the death of a spouse, it is already prescribed in the law. So we said limit the maximum amount of battery 80, the current value of pensions to the lowest part of the family pension of three AVMs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119378	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119379	Dear Minister, yesterday you said on the board that, in fact, with this reform that is now... this part of the reform that is being carried out here, that you would actually, together with the World Bank, do a system analysis to further improve, and today, in your presentation, you said that you had already sent calls to form a working group that should run an analysis. I'd like to ask you if it's okay to count the factors that you're going to analyze here in the future with the World Bank and with that task force that we know if there are all factors? Should we react and suggest some other factors that you might need to analyze to get a better quality system?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119380	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119381	Thank you very much. So, the full analysis of the Croatian pension system is three-stage, so not only on the basis of pensions paid through the Pension Insurance Act, but also on the 2nd and 3rd pillars will cover the analysis of exactly what I have said, so the average period of retirement time in Croatia, the adequateness of pensions, minimum pensions, the rate of pension coordination, so all factors affecting the Croatian pension system will be analysed since 20 years have passed since the establishment of this three-stage pension system. So, given the fact that in the last five years alone, the amount of contributions to pension payments with 53% of how much we are used to pay our pensions reached 61%, the rest is naturally paid from the state budget from tax funds, so that's the same thing for an analysis of how adequate the contribution system is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119382	Thank you. Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119383	Thank you. Dear Ministers, here are the proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act as well as you as the Ministry and Government and the Pension Insurance Office, which sends a clear message that, in the circumstances of this terrible crisis, energy and food that may occur, the government wants to ensure some social security and pensioners with these lowest pension incomes somehow reduce this risk of poverty and help with various other social measures. And perhaps what would be important to once again point out for a pensioner who may, who may not be clear because a lot of this is changing here, who will increase family pensions by 10%, whether only pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act or by other regulations and whether users should submit a request to the Pension Insurance Office to achieve this increase in family pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119384	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119385	So all family pensions are going to increase these factors, so from 0.70 to 0.77 and so relative to factor 1.0, so all family pensions and according to the Retirement and Special Provisions Act, and I have already responded to one of my colleagues, so there is no need to submit, therefore, but the pension factor is entering the pension calculation formula from January 1st, and all family pension beneficiaries are getting a pension after a new calculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119386	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119387	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, so all that is certain improvements you know well that we accept in this assembly. The problem of retirement is the problem that won't solve this law either, so we're aware of that. When you have a million and 200 thousand pensioners, and it's less than 30 years old. the pension staff that this problem is really big, and this is just one of the measures that will slightly improve something, but it will not solve it until the end, and of course the eyes of all pensioners are against this debate because they are interested in each and every improvement and every increase. But what I'm interested in is the following, so we have when it comes to pensions of about 17 regulations, I pulled them out here, the 17 regulations by which pensions are paid. There's no need to list them in particular, you know them very well, but 17 different regulations. Is it ever thought that they all put themselves under some common denominator and in a common story because as long as we still have problems, we'll go from problem to problem, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119388	Thank you. Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119389	Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, as far as I know, it is not thought that everyone, all of these pension system rights through the 18 categories of pensions that Croatia has put under one hat, but I said the Croatian pension system after 20 years. functioning, after the '99 changes. with the application of 2002 going into a thorough analysis, so I believe this will be one of the issues to be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119390	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119391	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, on this subject, these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act have been discussed for a long time, and especially our pensioners in the country are interested because the truth God in the country is the lowest pensions. Here is a month ago when I walk through the village, I am stopped by individual pensioners, and then especially one pensioner asked me to follow the meetings of HS to ask what kind of raise they will have and if they can hope for, in particular, she has a pension from the late husband who receives it back in 5 years, is 1,700 kuna, as much as she can hope for, and what must she bear and take and take what measures to take in order to achieve a procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119392	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119393	Thank you very much. If she uses a Colloquial pension from her husband, then the lady is a beneficiary of her family's pension. So with January 1st, if HS accepts this law, the pension will rise by 10%, so the family pension will increase by 10%. If the lady is entitled to her own personal pension if she has a pension or was therefore an insurance undertaking, there may be a possibility that she may be consumed and her personal pension, and if she would then benefit from a personal pension, then her personal plus belonging part of the family will be greater than the family pension she receives from the deceased husband.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119394	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119395	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, we can welcome this minimal increase in the minimum pension, as well as the possibility of using part of the pension of a deceased spouse or an extra-marriage partner with a personal pension, but should certainly point to uncertainty in the part of the regulation of the additional condition, which means the age of 65.g. the surviving spouse/extreme spouse, in particular if we consider that the age of retirement is for women in 2023. 63. And three months. It doesn't make sense that she still has to wait two years. to make a family pension, which was also a comment in public consultation. Here, what's your answer to about... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119396	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119397	Thank you very much. So this is an additional right that has never existed in retirement insurance before. If we had this 65-year limit. By receiving salaries, by participating in the labour market, by getting to the threshold of your family's pension, it can come to you by 50 years, and we would then give up this goal to go towards increasing the average age of your retirement, so until 65. The most normal income can be obtained through work and therefore this limit to the part of the use of a 65-year-old family pension so that we do not have an increase in the number of demands that someone is now going to early retirement, which is of course in no one's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119398	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119399	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister. It should certainly be commended for the bill's proposal because I think it is necessary to stress that in this Act it is proposed to allow the use of part of a family pension with a personal pension. A significant step in the pension system because so far it has not been possible. So my question to you is, how can a part of the family's pension be made with personal property and should a request be made for HZMO? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119400	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119401	Thank you very much, colleague Dreven Buddinski. And I've already answered that question in part. Therefore, the conditions are clear, 65 years of completed life, if it is entitled to a family pension based on the death of a spouse, a request is submitted to HZMO for the calculation of a more favourable model of retirement. In this way and allowing these applications and informational calculations in HZMO to last throughout 2023, we also proposed amendments and additions to this Act in a way that indeed everyone, but indeed everybody uses this right you for all of these comments we have heard, someone is not informed, does not follow the Assembly, does not read the daily press, does not watch the information program, that indeed in collaboration with HZMO to reach every possible user of this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119402	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119403	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. What I'm wondering is, in case the user was suspended early on early retirement? Is it possible to reduce his so-called. penalization depending on the retirement period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119404	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119405	Well, this is not in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law, we still think that pensioning is still low and lower compared to some European average and that we should never go with the aim of reducing the pension that are truly minimally percentage points per month of early retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119406	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119407	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. You have already mentioned in your opening statement the possibility that pensioners can also be in a working relationship. This circle, therefore, is the user, or pensioner who, along with receiving his pension, works several times extended, last year when actually users had the possibility of working for up to 4 hours since 1 August 2021, with the result that they can use their pension. Now both these amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act are actually expanding, so if you can briefly explain in more detail who this applies to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119408	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119409	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So all age pensioners can therefore use their pension and work, still be present on the labour market for 4 hours. In 2021, this House adopted amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, where this right extended to family pensioners who had until then been abolished. So if someone is using a family pension, so far they've had a factor of 0.70, so a reduced pension is something that they've received from a deceased member of the marriage community. Now since 2021 and they can therefore work four hours. So we've expanded the number of pensioners who can work with the pension. We consider it still in cooperation here and with union associations to expand, but it is very important to note the fact that since 2016 when we had only 4000 pensioners who worked, we have today reached 22 800 pensioners who are working and receiving pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119410	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119411	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the Honorable Minister with the Director. A conscious moment in which we are as a state and as a society, primarily related to inflationary pressure that affects all of us, and thus our most vulnerable groups, which are certainly included in our pensioners, namely, 1.23 million pensioners. My question concerns the proposed limit. In particular, why is the proposed limit made in the way of 80 values of the current pension, i.e. why cannot personal pension and part of the family pension exceed that limit, i.e. why could it not, for example, make the limit fixed, for example, 7 thousand kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119412	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119413	Thank you very much. So here's what you mentioned about inflationary pressures, by limiting the fixed amount, it wouldn't be opportunised, especially in situations like this when prices and energy and food and all that, and that's why we've tied this limit to the current value of retirement. In the Croatian pension system, the value of the current pension is changed every half of the year, so on 1 January and 1 July. Every time so far, the current value of the pension has grown depending on this model of pension coordination, so AVM growth and pensions. That's why we predicted to tie these limits to current pension values because they increase more every 6 months. If you take an average retirement pension with a 40-year-old pension rate, therefore 5 thousand kuna, then here the use of personal and therefore part of a family pension exceeds that of an average age with someone who has 40 years of retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119414	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119415	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. We can all agree today that our pensioners are having a hard time living. In the Covid crisis and the 2 severe earthquakes, they were the most likely group to be hit. The government, Covid, and by energy, tried to ease it and, of course, help our pensioners. These today's changes are foreseen by the government's programme, of course. This is, this bill of law is a brave step forward certainly a better way to regulate pension payments. Nor is it positive what this law adopts, but most importantly, it is important to stress that this increase refers to increasing family and lowest pensions, and surely you will not stop at this. What is the next step between you and your ministry and government to, of course, continue helping our pensioners?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119416	Dear Minister Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119417	So can the vice president. Well, I've already mentioned, so this is where we meet our goals from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The peace reform as I have already said several times today is not a cemented thing, but this government is already going into third amendments and supplementing the pension insurance law and thus trying to respond naturally in accordance with its financial opportunities to the challenges and with this improved model of harmonisation now redefine family pensions, increase by 10, using part of the family pension by 27%. But I've already told my colleagues Pavic, so we're forming a task force with this process to analyse the entire pension system. There was a proposal, so there were trade unions and Retirement Mothers for a better model, by calculating pensions. We calculate it in cooperation with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. And as we went from 50 to 70, 30 I believe this government will offer a new model by the end of the term. harmonising pensions. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119418	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119419	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, you mentioned the National Recovery and Resistance Plan earlier. We all know that this National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the first tranche of 700m euros, has been subject to some measures. The measures your ministry must implement were an increase in pension adequateness through continued pension reform. Please, in these amendments and amendments to the pension insurance measures that we have respected and whether there is anything more than what we have essentially changed in this law, which have not been directly defined as the specific measure of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119420	Thank you very much, colleague Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119421	So, we have actually met all the criteria set out in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan through this concrete measure that the Ministry of Labour has been tasked with. And that way we can say that we put an end to this MPO task. However, the IPO was not, therefore, defined the percentage of the share of the family pension. We said we'd make it possible to use part of the family pension with that personal one. We have different European models. If we go only to the first Slovenian neighbours then the percentage of the use of part of the family pension is 15%. Thanks to the cooperation and support and therefore, the representatives of Hrelja and therefore to meeting all of our goals through the NPO, and also to all of what we said in the Assembly that Croatian pensions are very suitable for increasing their adequateness, that we go to a much higher percentage than 27%. So that's something that wasn't meant for the NPO, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119422	Representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119423	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, with this proposal, amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act the same status as police officers and authorised officials and active military personnel also achieve professional firefighters. What does that mean? That these amendments and additions of the law allow them to work part-time and receive full-time pensions or to work full-time and receive half a pension. I therefore welcome, among other things, this formulation in the law and this bill, given that firefighters do extremely complex work not only to put out fires and save people and property, but to intervene in situations of various threats, natural disasters, interventions in traffic accidents and many other similar situations. I therefore support this formulation of amendments and additions to the law and I ask your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119424	Thank you. Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119425	Thank you very much. So, professional firefighters through these amendments and additions to the laws are equating themselves with active military personnel, police officers, insurance workers, people who worked in the demining process, so now we're joining them with firefighters. So far, they have been able to go into retirement, work for four hours, given their well-favoured work experience. But they didn't have the opportunity, like all of them, that they really, in view of their age and desire to be active, to work, they actually work eight hours outside of the fire system, and that they're receiving half a pension. In this way, we believe that another injustice to the firemen at this time of summer when they are very much on the ground and make their contribution more than positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119426	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119427	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as far as raising family rates of 10%, it will go with automation as well as this increase in the lowest by 1 and a half percent. However, this recognition is practically a new right to part of a family pension where it is more favourable for the user to part of the family’s personal life. I think we should find some model that all of our pensioners who would prefer it in time to know that they have the right to do so, so I hope you find some model to get to each of them. Is this a memo from HZMO that will leave as soon as the law takes effect on each of them or something else, but I ask that it be done anyway. And also so that they could in time request a calculation and submit the right, because I know that the right is recognised from the first next month of the application day, so that they do not waste much time from the moment of recognition of the right. So they're not all going to get from 1.1 next year, so here we go, please take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119428	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119429	Thank you very much. Consent, therefore, there is nothing but HZMO will get the task and the media campaigns, they are already being prepared, they are forming teams that, of course, need to coordinate all internal processes so that this right can be implemented very quickly and realised and realised. Therefore, it will be a task, it will be a huge job, but teams in HZMO are already preparing for this challenge, and for that reason we have said no matter when they apply after the calculation in 2023, you will receive a pension from January 1, '23, and everyone who would be late or not within that deadline will apply for part of the family pension then make a pension for the first, first day of the next month, 6 months retrograde.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119430	Honorable representative and vice president of the Ante Sanader Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119431	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here I congratulate you on this reform because it is very important and colleagues of Hrelja who is a fighter for these rights, but primarily I have come to thank you for accepting the initiative of the fire department, Croatian fire departments, to correct this injustice and to have the firefighters be with the police and the military and have the same rights. Congratulations to you young ministers, too, because this one can be seen that, we are pleased to see that when one of the MPs becomes a minister and knows right away... a job that you can see is an experience from the local administration and that as a successful mayor you immediately caught yourself in trouble with these reforms, and you can see the influence of St. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Joseph, who was sworn in so that all this was agreed upon, and I congratulate him, and I hope that we can come through unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119432	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119433	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119434	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119435	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear fellow Piletic, here is, first and foremost, the work that has been done since you took over the demanding ministry's portfolio, and I must commend these amendments to the laws that are now before us so that, according to the current law, the user of pensions cannot use two pensions based on generational solidarity, but only one that is more favourable to him, according to the current law. Why do you propose to use part of a family pension with the detention of a personal, old, early age or disability pension in the event of the death of a spouse and what is most important is that it always goes to the right of a more favourable user who is most important in this case, and these are those pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119436	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119437	Thank you very much. So before these amendments and the addition of the Pension Insurance Act, therefore, there was a thorough analysis of the adequateness of family pensions, and therefore it was seen that in so-called “the pensions”. In the event of the death of a spouse, therefore, the household has almost half of its income. Thus, here we are, indeed, through solidarity and what you and your spouses are saying and in good and evil, in this way we are actually allowing this drop in home income to be somewhat tempered with the possibility of using and part of a family pension, and that is why we have also proposed amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, and of course all those covered by these amendments and the additions of the law to have the right to a more favourable pension and I believe that they will take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119438	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119439	Thank you. Dear Ministers, one of the most important newspapers in the proposal of the Pension Insurance Act is the possibility that a widower or widower may use part of the pension of a deceased spouse or an extramarital mate. The Croatian pension system has so far not known the possibility and has not predicted it, and it is precisely something to be welcomed because it is thus increasing the income of retired single households. One of the conditions is also completed 65. the life of a surviving spouse or spouse. This age-limit is certainly necessary in order not to encourage early retirement instead of the rest in the world of working potential users of family pensions, especially at this time while we have difficulty finding labour, so please, please comment on this age-limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119440	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119441	So here I think that I have already commented with my colleague Iljkić Vlasic, so family pensions are one thing, if someone wants to use family pension according to the existing law, he can, we know what age limits they are, we know who can all be a beneficiary of family pension, so both spouses and children and parents if the deceased took care of them, so the whole diapazon is people who can use family pensions. But this way, when a person loses a husband or wife, when he comes in the year when he really should retire and be a user and enjoy the well-deserved then we add after that 65. and part of the family pension, until then, of course, income can be secured on, on, therefore, from the source of the salary or indeterminate work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119442	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119443	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, we've heard a lot here today, that these are only fire measures, although we know that only in the coming year will we single out an additional billion and 217 million kunas. We've heard that nothing changes and no better status will be women, although we know that over 94% of women are just users of family pensions, and they are increasing. However, little has been said that these legal changes bring to craftsmen. Since I come from Sibenik-Knin County where more than 60% of business entities are craftsmen, over 65% of them refer to service activities, craftsmanship, hospitality and tourism, and we also know that over the past years have been marked by numerous peace and suspensions, and these legal changes relate to this, so I would like to ask you to explain a little bit what will change them by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119444	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119445	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing. We're kind of caught up with all the family pensions. We forgot to mention that this is also one of the important changes and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. You have situations that craftsmen are in standing status, that they are either on maternity or maternity leave, and are required since they are registered in the register to pay contributions. In this way, as part of a working relationship, craftsmen and self-employed persons are allowed to carry out professional activity in order to put their working status at rest in a way that does not really pay them contributions, or that they do not pay their own contributions to the extent that they need or temporary suspension or peace of activity. So that's how we regulate their status as well as any employment relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119446	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119447	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister. There's a lot of things already said, but somehow an opposition through the breaks, and later on, through the replica, she wanted to say, we're going to support these changes because they're bringing in an increase in pensions, but that increase is going to eat all your inflation. It should be pointed out that this is actually not true because it is precisely for inflation not eating pensions to serve a harmonisation that goes twice a year for 1.7 and 1.1, and this increase that will be for family pensions of 10% is really an increase of 10% where whoever gets that pension when it's increased by 10% is really able to get 10% more and buy as well as for these lowest pensions where there goes an increase of 3% on two occasions. I think it's important to stress it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119448	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119449	Thank you very much, Vice President. So look, we're all struggling with inflation that no one expected, considering that no one could predict what the conflict of the two largest European countries would generate in the economy, and therefore in the prices. However, that inflation has neither eaten nor eaten this full harmonisation for the reason that we during this mandate are monitoring that average pensions have increased by slightly more than 20%, that this model of coordination is much more favourable than again some of our countries in the neighbourhood. Italy has no alignment twice a year, we still have a pension adjustment twice a year, of course by analysing the price increase in the previous period compared to the previous period before this being observed. So that's one good model, of course it can be better, and of course these changes we've proposed can't say that inflation will eat everything, and even if it should be again Emphasise that this is why the government is going to reform [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] the pension system to increase income for people in these sensitive moments. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119450	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119451	Dear Minister, I will use this replica for what you have now said because previous colleagues have already said my line, which is related to this proportionality regarding obtaining the conditions for a family pension with a personal pension. In fact, Italy has once-a-year coordination, Germany does, but we need to know that they were de facto until yesterday there was no inflation because they were in the euro area the same as the Germans, with the coordination of that pension being announced when it comes to Italy in January, and when it comes to Germany it goes from 1.7, so you have a first and second term, clean yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119452	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119453	Well, you're right, so we haven't had inflation in terms of both economic growth and pension coordination. You see that the pensions grew on average, you had a few synchronizations of 2%, before three adjustments were only 0.5, so it wasn't some big one. When inflation occurs then, of course, the percentage of pension adjustments per formula goes up twice a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119454	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119455	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. On many occasions in your reply to the replicas you mentioned the lowest pensions, I must once again underline that they are triple protected because they exist even lower than these lowest ones. There are old farming pensions that are even lower before 1999. So we set up a social anchor for them that if they have the right to a family pension that that pension cannot be less than three AVMs, and at this point it is 219 kunas with those two others, the other two protections that you have already mentioned in the sense that this pension is going 1.5% higher and that a family pension is being determined from the one in charge, and not from the one that is actually paid for. So, I mean, I just wanted to supplement it to be precise and clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119456	Dear Minister Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119457	Thank you for the complimentary representative of HRELJ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119458	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? President-in-Office of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119459	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Working Committee, pension system and social partnership of HS at the 23rd session held on 11 July 2022. He discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 308, in accordance with Art. 308, The 83rd Rules of Procedure of the HS as a home working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the purpose of this law is to redefine the current family pension model and increase the family pension by 10%. Furthermore, it will allow the use of part of the family pension with a personal pension. The increase in the pension factor for calculating the amount of family pension is estimated to include more than 130 thousand users. The total pension will also be increased for age pensioners, early retirement pensions and disability pensions when they are 65.g. life, which in the event of the death of a spouse or an extramarital second significantly reduces income provided that their pension is not greater than the prescribed pension limit, with the current value of retirement, enabling the cumulation of part of the family pension with a personal age, early retirement and disability pension, is targeted at a measure aimed at protecting pensioners with lower pension incomes in single households. This measure is projected to cover more than 155,000 pensioners who will increase the total monthly pension income. Furthermore, with the regular harmonisation of pensions from 1 January and 1 July each calendar year, the minimum pension will be gradually increased by a total of 3% by 2025. for more than 280 thousand users to raise the lower level of right in pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. The proposer pointed out that the proposed measures will achieve a higher level of social security and reduce the risk of poverty for particularly sensitive categories of pensioners, especially those with lower pension incomes. He also stressed the possibility of paying off part of the family pension to age, early age or disability pension, a significant step in the pension system of generation solidarity, as this was not possible under the current legislative framework. In accordance with the Law on the introduction of the euro as official currencies in the Republic of Croatia, provisions governing fines in euro have also been amended. The debate contains the following comments and proposals, as well as opinions. They agree that it is necessary to improve the material position of a particularly sensitive category of pensioners at risk of poverty when they remain in single households. Praises are worth increasing the pension factor for calculating the amount of family pension, as well as introducing the possibility of using part of the deceased spouse’s pension, especially in relation to elderly women, means widows making up the most numerous group of users. In the debate, the applicant stressed that these proposed measures stemmed from the NPOO, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to ensure that wages and pensions are adequate. It is also pointed out that the current pension payment is covered by around 60% of the contributions, and in the rest of the state budget, we heard today that it is 61% and that the rest is paid from the state budget. The debate has repeatedly highlighted that this is only the first phase of reform of the pension system, and that in collaboration with the World Bank, a system analysis will be carried out to further improve the system. Despite the large range of minimum pensions, most board members consider the proposed solutions to be fair and solidarity. Furthermore, in the future, it should consider and analyse the poverty of pensioners, taking into account also the income asset price. An opinion was put forward to increase the contribution to pension insurance by 1%, and that the tax on all forms of work should be the same height. At the end of the debate, however, the members of the Committee on Proposed Amendments agree to assist the most sensitive group of pensioners to cope with the economic crisis that has affected Europe as a whole. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose HS to draw the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z., is adopted. No. 308, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119460	Thank you. I am now opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of HNSU Representatives and Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119461	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Here we have cracked what is attractive, and now we're going to try on behalf of the clubs to say what's important in the content. So this is indeed and I am personally pleased to talk about this proposal to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act because it is indeed the official beginning of a process that would on 1 January 2023. should have brought a lot of good to our pensioners and to the target group, a group of family pensioners. I wouldn't like it because of the difficult situation with the lowest pensions due to illness, age, the loneliness of older people in the country that this debate on family pensions is a collateral victim of the lowest, lowest pensions. So this is really about increasing the scope of the rights of beneficiaries of family pensions and introducing and introducing into the pension system of new rights, so that the overlives get part of the pension from the deceased is a new right in the Croatian pension system and that is the cry we listen to not just 30 years. these countries than 50 years and 20 years in the last country modelled Western European countries. Our neighbors introduced it 22 years ago. Slovenians, here we are, here's what we're talking about today, and we're going to introduce with January 1, 2023. So this cry is justified, it is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the protection of the family and all kinds of protection and material protection. Family pensions cover the family, cover children until their completion of their studies, until their adulthood and employment, so they cover family and cover, that is, cover the worst possible situation when the family runs out of one member, without one part of the income. And that's when it's given a more favourable right. It may be a combination that survivors continue to work, and underage children receive a family pension. And the second big dimension I want to say here is this new right, this right to part of the pension, the family pension deceased is the valorisation of the sacrifice that the family has through contributions. So, we all make contributions. None of us know if they're going to use that pension for 20 years or, unfortunately, they're going to die before they even retire. That part, that money is allocated to everything based on solidarity on all categories of pensioners. So, this is the valorisation of a common insurance base that the family pays 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, and even up to 90 years of joint training. Therefore, we do not have the right and we understand this by analysing the levels of family pensions, we do not have the right after the death of one spouse, after so many years of internships, whether it is high or low pensions to leave the survivor at risk of poverty because we have a cover in its contribution to total solidarity. So here it is said that it deals with HZMO entrepreneurship. HZMO has a fund founder, HZMO doesn't deal with entrepreneurship. These are current live labour transfers to pensions, live labor contributions are transferred to pensions. There's no entrepreneurship here. There's solidarity here. So, we have given this bill a dimension, a dimension of fairness by payment of contributions, a dimension of solidarity and a dimension of the constitutional foundation of this law to protect the family. Here I am, and I'm proud that I'm one of the initiators to rush the introduction of this supplement or part of the pension after the deceased, that's true. And I went into that process with a little bit of other positions. And that's the way it is. I went into this process from a strict insurance position, that as much as anyone has paid or in the function of using it is reduced. I stepped down under the power of arguments from my position. Why? I couldn't even dream on the outside until we entered the analysis of the complete system, in statistics that there are at this point as many as 80,000 largely widows who don't have insurance training, and their pensions are about 2,000 kuna. That's why we raised those family pensions by 10%. So there's no one to help them. If there is no family engagement, they have the right to some dignified life. So, of course, we have decided to help through family pensions and those who do not have an internship and children who receive a family pension through increased expenditure. And that'll be on average somewhere, let's say on average 250 kuna. People say it's a little bit, you know, but it's still 3,000 kunas a year and it's every month. It's not like a social supplement once in a midterm or once a year. And as for this part of the deceased, he will be of the lowest, for we have set the anchor on the lowest supplement. It is three AVs or 219 kunas at this point which will be increased the same after the alignment. So from those 219 to at this time of 1200 kuna depends on the relationship between the pensions of the spouses. That no one can say you get an average, on average it's somewhere by budget around 510 kuna which means a total of 6000 kuna per year income more. It is important to note that this is done through this law on fixed monthly incomes and all these parameters provided for in this law will all be adjusted twice a year, i.e. nominally increased in order to maintain their purchase value, i.e. the value of that money that pensioners receive. I've seen great support this morning with always a small delay. We live and work in a political arena and it's not, I don't expect any praise for this law. I expect only correctness and support for everyone to really see that this is an increase in the scope of pension rights, a significant increase of 300 thousand people. A little less increase for 200,000 people, but that can't be determined exactly, because it's one of the lowest pensions. There are also those old ones that include this anchor, there are those who will benefit from the family pension. So this is let's say calculations and forecasts in plus, minus 5% of the total cost next year. But I'm saying I hope this will all be accepted with a positive. In my individual debate, I'm going to talk a little bit about the problem of these lowest pensions because no matter how much we talk to them, we always say a little. Here, for now, I hope your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119462	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister with an associate. Every time some concrete and quality suggestions come along, we'll back it up. I, I've never been able to publicly praise the Government or the Minister or any other minister, whether there will be any criticism, always as you praise, always something that is well to be commended. So this part about the pension insurance amendment law, I think it's a good part, but what was my open question is to open one question here, and that's the question of these lowest pensions. Is there anything else to do? I believe that you are thinking, when you are always asking such questions, that we are always looking for answers because this is still a parliament where we should actually make all the arguments and finally make some kind of political decision, is it, in these circumstances, and whether there are any other reserves to increase this part of the lowest pension. Why are we saying that? Because if this Law had been passed somewhere in 2018, in 2019, nobody would have asked too many questions. Unfortunately, the moment of his adoption is that we are actually faced with the greatest inflation. Inflation where food goes 15%, energy goes 40%. And then it's normal and logical that both the pensioners and actually here to open up the debate, when this particular part of the law is already changing, do you still have to do anything for the most vulnerable, right? Now, if it can be done through these amendments to the law, that's why we're opening a debate or if it can be done with other legal solutions, but that's why we're opening the debate. Some kind of extra, like this was part of that energy supplement or inflation supplement, is it, because it's said, because pensioners, unfortunately, they can't escape inflation. All of us who are able to work or do other jobs or if not satisfied with their incomes, can quit, go to another better paid job, or young people go outside. So not for three, four thousand kuna, but for 2,000 euros. They're more mobile. Those who can't really, who are actually limited by all of these are actually pensioners, and because of that we talk about them here with a special emphasis because they're inflation, what is it, and especially because it's about food and energy, we're asking questions about how to help them and here it's our appeal to think again, if, when this tourist season is over, they're all announcing that there's a good tourist season going on, we see now Ultra in Split, increased consumption, by fiscalized accounts, etc., that in the fall, and that everyone's actually talking about this autumn, so somehow, with some kind of fear, and first of all thinking about energy, whether it's going to be energy, to think about, to continue with the energy supplement. Why? Because it is already being debated in Europe that citizens will be warmed up in the first place. They're not even setting the price anymore than if there's even going to be heat, are they? Not only are we talking about it in Germany, is it, are they saying it in other Western countries, and that is why it is important that here, that the government actually thinks that this autumn that is certainly going to be very challenging where we don't know what the bills will look like and for the heating and that there will be heating at all, that we can think again about that part of whether it can help the most endangered because they are certainly the most under attack. It's certainly more important to say when we enter the euro, we'll have one psychological moment to talk about here, and that's when the pensioners get retired, that's something we can't rule out, until now, when the postman comes, every time he comes and counts and I don't know, 2, 3 thousand kunas, but now that the postman comes and brings 3 bills, is 100 euros, it's going to be a psychological moment for the pensioners, whether it's very, very shocking, is it. Let's not do that, let's not... Yes, important, yes, 300 euros I've rounded up like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And of these, the 200 must already be directed. This will certainly be a challenging period and therefore we say once again that with some other instruments, if not perhaps through this legal solution, so ask the minister himself and ask him to answer, perhaps there will be other instruments, and not through these legal solutions that are the lowest, most vulnerable, especially in times like this, because we hope that this time will not last long, however, questions arise when it takes so long, that the government has been trying with its instruments nevertheless those most vulnerable in this society, these are pensioners with the lowest pensions, that it has certain instruments. And now it's always, today there's Hrelja, a colleague of the Hrelja was actually talking about payment of contributions, wasn't it? A very important moment, and what the minister actually said today, is that we have defeated data in view of the work experience, is 30, 30 years. That Western countries are going at 40 and now watch the paradox in Croatia. We're running out of labor. We're missing the workforce. We have to import the workforce over the summer, right? And we have people on the other side, young pensioners. So look what contribution, what we are in 30 years through various transitions and war events, but actually a variety of economic growth has shown illogicalness, that we have the youngest pensioners, and we lack labour. If we were currently at the best historical ratio of the number of pensioners and the number of employees 1:32, the best, I don't think we can even skip it anymore if we don't have workers, we don't have people. We can't go to that ratio 1:5 or 1:6 so then this part of the pension system that works more is actually that we don't have enough, we don't have people. And now there's a question of these contributions, all the time I've been here talking to you about what we've had for 30 years, and then there's still the hard question, and that's the payment of contributions. Now the question arises, when someone after 30 or 40 years of working hours retires and then sees that his employer didn't pay his contributions and asks the question and then we all look at the floor and then what? And then when someone calculates a pension, they fall on the edge of poverty. Why? He worked 40 years, worked 40 years, the employer didn't pay his contributions, didn't pay his pension or, on the other hand, applied him to a minimumer, and gave him the difference in cash. What is the responsibility of the state? I think it's a big responsibility for the state. And regardless of what I wanted to answer, regardless of what part of the country missed, she missed controlling the payments. It was once in FINA you couldn't pay the salary if no contributions were paid to pension and health. Today you can pay the net salary not to pay both pension and health contributions, which is actually the state's appointment. And if the state has failed to control someone for years so that people can get paid, and there's no pension and health pay, and then there's a shock when he retires that he doesn't have that payment, and then he falls to the lowest branches, and then the state for those people who haven't paid the contributions must have their backs paid, he has to because she's scheduled in control mechanisms for payment of contributions especially pension contributions. And these are actually open issues that this here today which we have the state of pension actually is the state of our society or the state of the economy in 30 years. We have very young pensioners, the first wave was by privatizing the 1990s, and then when the second one was the crisis in 2000, then the third crisis when it was 2007. whenever certain major crises are a large part of the workers or go to the bureau, then people are looking for early retirement, etc., etc. And then today we get out of the system what we get is that they're not enough that half of the pension fund is missing for pension payments and in other words, it has to be from that part of the VAT that half of that part of the pension fund that is missing in the fund is actually paid by the VAT to cover the differences. So we at the SDP club will support these amendments to the law, but once again until the second reading please come to answer the questions if there is anything else that can be done for these minimum pensions And other words for these extras? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119464	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative, Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119465	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, and respected all those interested in following us, since this is a very important topic that touches us all. First of all, we should commend this initiative, this is a commendable initiative, and since the total cost of inflation is approximately 25 billion, later I can explain why I said 25 billion, this money that will go to the pensioners is commendable, however it will not be enough so that, apart from Mr. Hrelje, I would like to commend both you ministers and the way you have communicated and answered the questions today, I think it is very important the same in this home. As for 25 billion, so the calculation is quite simple, so if GDP is expected to be at some 400 billion, if we know that 60% of consumption is personal consumption, that's about 250 billion, if we assume that official inflation is 10% easy to calculate how much this inflation is going to cost. As far as pensions are concerned, why am I saying that it's not enough model or that it won't be enough, so for some 20 years we've been hearing about these reforms because the last one was so somewhere 20 years ago and what they show is actually empirical objective data, removing all ideologies, removing all the world's horizons is that this system is unsustainable. So, I repeat, this pension system is unsustainable because 20% of what we pay in pension funds is not enough to pay off money, but still a considerable amount must be financed from the budget. Now whether the source of VAT as said by a former colleague or other sources or borrowing on the international market is irrelevant, but such a system is unsustainable, we will even argue that this system and impoverishes what shows, say, an inflation and such recessions and such situations occur every 10 years. I don't agree with my colleague Peovic, they're not shares that have led to a decrease in the value of the funds but bonds, there's a difference, the stock is owned by the company, and the bond is actually loans. So, the bond offerings as they fell, given that they were negative and that 60 to 70% of the pension funds were locked up with bond financing, so there was a reduction in the value of these funds. Now what's the problem? I'm going to argue today that one solution, for example, is the privatisation of the 2nd pension pillar. And why am I saying that? So, first of all, I disagree with the fact that this investment should go 60 to 70% in bonds. The reason is quite simple, because pension funds were just involved in the creation of inflation. Yeah. So pension funds were involved in the creation of inflation. How? When the CNB bought bonds from pension funds, the funds again came to Mr. Maric and bought nothing less than government bonds for money spent on who knows where. We know for ourselves that on a budget of 170 billion, 60 billion disappears through corruption. All you need to do is drive through the Carlovite and see your father and son stealing the iron. That's one example, for example. Or you have a minister in the government of Paladin who has devastated no less than pension funds. Yeah. And then you have a fact, I came, I saw, a desolation fund, I became a minister to collect it all. So my view, that is, is that privatising the funds could lead to an increase in value because economic activity does not contribute to us, demographic images do not contribute to us for the reason that in the last 8 years we have donated the entire budget of Mr Plenkovic to Germany. So as far as the pension fund itself is concerned, so three are the economic freedoms of the basics. What I'm going to spend the money I make a month on is economic freedom. 1. Where I'm going to save the money I made and where I'm going to invest, that's freedom no. 2. And to whom I will freely donate extra money, it is solidarity that needs to be distinguished from socialism. And in this regard, I believe that the fact that something that is nominally called private savings in the second pillar is locked up, I believe that investment in government bonds or investment in state-owned companies that are losers cannot possibly lead to an increase in income. Why is it that a person who for 20 years or 30, 34 years, if I'm not mistaken, of working experience, is paying into pension funds, and then that he can't take that money, that he can't spend that money, and who says that for a person of the Croatian Government's bond, is the best investment, why wouldn't he be a Roman? Here, questionnaire. Well, the government, for example, subsidized a Roman with a billion and a half kuna. Why can't we, as private savings, invest ourselves in a Roman, in another company statue and at the end of the day, transfer that personal responsibility to us because I believe that the state doesn't invest well and that money disappears. You see how it is, the pension system is actually a geopolitical tool of a number of powers. It is not a German philanthropic country, it lets people, or our people who have moved, about 300 thousand people, around the entire budget, 170 billion kunas when they look at the costs, it did not let them go because it loves Croatia. We even got a confession with T-Com but that we could fill no less than a German pension system. Taxes, contributions, etc. Well, even Slovenia isn't very friendly, it's very calculative. It is friendly in the sense that it has its own interests when it advocates, for example, that BiH enters the EU, because it knows that BiH's demographics are being shed in Slovenia because it is more preferred to stay in Slovenia where mentality is closer to official data than to go to Germany. And then the official Pahor and the rest of the administration come and says, "We want BiH in the EU," why? For the reason that even more people from BiH, regardless of nationality, will move to Slovenia, most of all, according to statistics, Bosniaks because ours are moving more to Germany. Now that's a geopolitical strategy where you use a pension system where you see a certain lack attracts people, and then these people fill our budgets, full of funds, so out. Now, what would be the extra solution? So he only gave, and on the other hand, where else is the coercion? Almost 95 users of the fund, 95% of the fund users, the REGOS automatically allocates one of the 4 funds. Why would he do that, REGOS? So if I can, say, come to my savings, pick a certain bank where I can deposit my funds, if I can come and choose an Internet service provider or I can choose a tariff on the phone, why should I choose REGOS, for example, one of the 4 pension funds? Why wouldn't there be 15 of them? At this point, if you didn't know, there's a cartel between four pension funds that are mutually agreed. That's not market. It's an anomaly on the market where the oligopoly, the cartels agree on certain, appropriate prices and services and fees, right? The solution would therefore be to transfer a certain percentage of the 1st pillar to the 2nd pillar. You need to see now that, it could be 0.5%, and then over about 20 years, a reverse situation would happen where you would have 5% mandatory, so you shouldn't throw it out, and 15% would be a real private savings where then I'm the obligor could decide what to do with two institutes. One is that you can really transfer money, let's say in the case of the death of a loved one, and the other is that you can get that money that's frozen, that you can't even get to. So that would be, let's say, one of the solutions that should be considered because investment at this point in a particular company can lead to improvement. And on the other hand, labor productivity was touched, so that's calculated. If 3% increased labour productivity, productivity in Croatia would be doubled within 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119466	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119467	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I won't be for that long. I can tell you all about this law as far as the message sent by the truth is concerned, there are some shortcomings. We heard it here and in the eyes of my other constituencies. What I'd like to look back at in the debate is actually the background of the whole law and what it changes. As we know Croatian pension insurance is based on generation solidarity and principles of reciprocity and solidarity and justice. The principle of reciprocity implies the proportionality of pension income with regard to investments in that system and the principle of solidarity and the redistribution of pension incomes in favour of those who need it. In this proposal, the law may not have been the most difficult solution for you, because evenly the increase has been given priority over a fair increase in wages, so perhaps those who have done the whole job are the most deprived. In other words, if you worked your whole life for an average salary, your pension will be the same as everyone else who has earned and contributed less, or according to the proposed model, 3% will be higher both regardless of paid contributions. On the other hand, a positive step towards a fairer pension system represents the use of part of family pensions with the retention of personal pensions in the event of the death of a spouse or partner, which is a very important newspaper in our pension system and a significant step towards increasing part of pensions. The beneficiaries of pensions which are left without a significant share of household income due to the death of a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner with almost the same overhead costs are certainly exposed to a decline in standards and risk of poverty, and using part of a family pension with a personal pension will mitigate the consequences of a reduction in real income. The Croatian pension system has been facing a double challenge for many years, which is to preserve financial sustainability and ensure adequate income for retired Croatian citizens. The main purpose of the pension system is to protect older people from poverty and to allow them a decent standard of living. Unfortunately, this is becoming more difficult every year because of the increase in the life of our population as well as the decline in the working population. So let's be honest, the pension system is increasingly relying on the state budget. Pensions have a significant impact on the state budget offered by the workforce and these effects must be taken into account in each pension policy. This newspaper will include more than 155,000 users or more than 10% of pensioners. Amendments and additions to the law will increase the pension factor for calculating the amount of family pension which will increase the pension by about 10% by more than 13,000 users. Family pensions will continue to grow on the basis of the additional harmonisation provided for in the amendments to the Law this year, and users will retain the right to work until half their working hours. However, with the regular harmonisation of pensions from 1 January and 1 July of each calendar year, additional amendments to the law will gradually increase the minimum pension by 3%, 1 and a half percent from 1 January of the following year and 1 and a half from 1 January 2025. Under normal circumstances, this would represent a significant increase in all the retirement standards together, but due to almost daily increases in cost of life, this advantage unfortunately has been significantly reduced. With these legal changes and the implementation of the measures, it almost turns out that 50% or 500,000 pensioners will have a higher pension income and this will require an additional billion and 217 million kuna for 2024, over a billion and 300 each year more and more. And with best intentions, this law will surely experience criticism and remarks that increases are more than symbolic. I agree most pensioners are low compared to the cost of living. Given the current crisis in the global market as well as the increasing daily expenditure of the budget, since the implementation of this law should have provided additional resources in the state budget, I think that the Government is doing everything in its power to prevent the further decline of pensioners' standards and I also believe that most pensioners will be satisfied with this reform of the Pension Insurance Act, as it provides lasting regulation to improve the situation and extend the material rights of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119468	On behalf of the Club, representatives of CENTRA and GLAS will now speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119469	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister with an associate. Here is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. It's really good to go in two readings, no matter how small a dose of pulsism we are, you know, that siren call is always a call that we don't resist, no matter how few of us in the assembly are connected to this amendment and the addition of the law. I appreciate that this is a proposal that is extremely important, and what is much more important is that the eyes of all pensioners are against this debate and somehow take care of what happens. I am sure and somehow believe that if through this debate some good suggestions are being discussed, and I appreciate that, let's say, that my colleague Bakic's proposal was one of the good proposals that needs to be discussed will somehow be considered in the autumn when we get another reading of this law that we may be better. I don't think any of us have a magic wand. If he had a magic wand, things would certainly be very different. Our entire pension system carries the burden of past times, which has been going on for a long time, and we need to be aware of that, and that's how we have to think about it. At this point, we have a million and 200 thousand pensioners, of which is average, as the minister said, and we see from the data, 30 so the internship that has been made to retire is 30. and these are the burdens that we carry and we will carry for a while, so these are some of the burdens that are specific to Croatia, but we also have some things that are specific to other EU countries, which is, for example, women who have received less wages for years and, logically, have fewer pensions. Equally, women who are generally more users of family retirement because I will not say any new thing or new information when I say that according to all the data women live longer than men and of course things are that way. Now this law, or on this one, has been discussed for a long time. At least I know of one 2-3 campaign that was held regardless of when the campaign went on, of course, that the pensioners in terms of the electoral electoral body, a significant electoral body, and that there was always a discussion about the problem of making something with the family pension, of finding a model. If this model is the best possible, if some other countries have other models, they do, but in order to have a model of Germany to start, they should be Germans, and we're not. We are Croats, we have our specifics, we have our own heritage, we have our own story, we have our story and we have our Homeland War, we have different stories and we have to take care of it and that's why. What I want, so we at the Club of the Centre and GLAS are all of those suggestions that we appreciate are good, all the proposals that are also small moves to make life easier are suggestions that should be considered and the proposals that are right and, in that sense, be made towards them. What I'd like and what I want to point out is next. We, I'm here, and I'm not going to, because I'm going to spend about all the time left, all the regulations under which pensions are provided, so let's say here, the pensions of the insurance companies of the crew of the ship that are eligible under the Maritime Code or the pensions of the former JNA are taken over by the succession of former SFRY or pensions under the special regulations of the Istrian coaldigger Tuvalac from Labin or pension for the rights of acquisition of the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. I'm sure the time has come to sit down and think about it. I don't have to admit that when I look at it a little bit together I'm not sure that it's possible to bring it down to the common denominator and that we have everything, but maybe to try to come down to it in 2 or 3 groups would already be a significant step, like this really this methodology, and that way at all is going to be a lot more difficult and I'm afraid to lead to big problems. I'll go back to the risk of poverty. We do have a series of things that we need to say clearly what it's about. So we have a share of the people who provide part of the pension here, and part of their pension is foreign. Today, foreign pension and those who worked there never came abroad, but abroad became Slovenia, so they were companies that were based in Slovenia and that way part of the pension was from another system, and when you look at only the pension that is in Croatia, which is achieved so this one is really very small, but when you connect with someone else, then you see that it is different. Let's tell the truth and the truth that today is the truth that there are a lot of those employers or there are those people who pay their own minimum wages and they will one day have an adequate and nominal pension, adequate for paying off, and the real situation is different. So we have cases like that, of course it's a danger, it's today, it's sometimes called a problem that comes to us in the fall, and we kind of call it challenges today, so the challenges that are war in Ukraine, which is fact. Climate change regardless of when, of course, we're talking about the Law on Pension Insurance, so we're talking about climate change, somebody's gonna think that I'm out of my mind, but climate change or dry year will, there's no water, in that way, in that way, there'll be less electricity production in Croatia, if there's less production we'll have to import, if we import more, then it'll be more expensive and it'll all be suffered by our pensioners. This law cannot solve all these things, there is no law that can iron it out, it can make some new balance and some new story, but this problem of risk of poverty, this problem of energy, energy and energy prices that will go away must be solved in some other ways and some other things should be taken care of, these are things to take care of now. So I absolutely think it's good that we decided on the option that part, that you're actually deciding that with your retirement part of the family to see what's more favourable to you, it's really time to get rid of it, we are, that's what I've been talking about for the last 10 years, and it's always been convenient with that barata, especially in some pre-election campaigns. I'm sure it'll cause some other things, but there's a need for good follow-up, and it's not just the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, but it's not just the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, and it's the problem that's going to be met by both the minister and the whole system. So, there are some things that are automatism, automation goes to increases, automation goes, and you don't have to file for it and everything else, but there are things that you're going to have to apply for that someone calculates what you prefer, whether you prefer to take your pension and 27% of your family or stay in the option that is. What will be a rush will certainly be a rush because what those who faithfully follow what we say in the assembly are certainly our pensioners, and even when the topic is that any increase in retirement on the road is there and logically and normally because they are interested. What you have to take care of, prepare yourself for it, prepare yourself through forms, prepare yourself through additional people, don't let me read this at the end of the line as one good intention, regardless of your government, it's not mine, I'm an opposition politician, but I have to read this as one good intention, don't let the ranks of the pensioners that are going to happen to us. I see it by my mom, my mom's gonna be the first one in line to see that she's being calculated as favourably or as unfavourable as possible, whether I figure it out or not, I'm not going to know it, and I'm sure I'm going to do something wrong by it, she's going to be there. Since New Year’s Eve, or when it all comes together, prepare yourself with patterns, additional people and everything else, so that in the end everything doesn’t fall on the system and on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119470	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club will now speak the esteemed representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119471	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. This law brings 3 relative and simple changes, so as we heard a 10% increase in almost all family pensions, a delayed increase in the lowest pension of 1.5%, then once again delayed by 1.48% and finally allowed a certain category of pensioners to receive and part of the family pension. This is a very small increase for very limited groups of insurance companies and there is no reason not to support the proposed changes, but also a modest increase, as the minister said in his presentation, as it says in the reasoning of the law, costs us already in the next year a billion and 217 million kuna. On the other hand, some of these provisions need to be fixed. Art. 3. this law shall be laid down as a basis, in the basic law of the Member State. 74.a. and 74.b., in art. 74a. It is now prescribed that a widower or widower who is 65 or over has the right to receive her own pension and 27% of the family, provided that there are no other users of the family. However, this additional layer of pensions was intended to prescribe the lower and upper borders, the lower limit was placed on 3 current pension values, which is currently 219.39 kuna, the upper limit was prescribed so that the sum of its pensions and this allowance could be up to 80 actual pension values, which is currently 5,850 kuna. Of course, if your own pension is already bigger than, then there's no such thing as an allowance. Everything seems fine here, we can discuss whether this upper limit should be greater or smaller, but I think that provision is, in particular, Art. 5. 74a. Poorly written. Namely, this is about the sum of the pension of St. 2nd Point. 3rd and 3rd of this article, and the problem is that what is already written in item 2. The 3rd represents that sum, so please check it out. So the way it says it turns out that the same thing we add up twice, the intensity is clear, but I think the formulation is inaccurate. Art. 7. this law of family retirement increases 10% to all but those where we have 4 or more family members who use a common family pension. Namely, their pension factor is already one and remains one, so it is the only category of family pensioners or family pensioners whose pension will not be increased by this law. As we heard in the reply to the replica, the minister said that among them there are those who are not completely threatened, of course there are also users of family pensions. I understand that increasing their pension means determining a pension factor greater than 1 which in some ways can be understood and absurd, so far this family is receiving a pension greater than the original one, but it is a social measure and I think it is deeply unfair to increase family pensions to everyone except not families that are so numerous that 4 or more members enjoy the right to a family pension. So much for that. Art. The 9th law raises the minimum pension by 1.5% with a delay. The lowest pension would be defined as the number of years of training times the current value of the pension, for 30g. The duration is 2.193 kuna, for 40 years. Interpret 2,925 kuna. The government is now proposing an increase of 1.5%, but this brings us to the problem we have already identified, the lowest pension is defined as a protective instrument. Those insurance companies who would be charged with lower pensions are given the lowest, but the real question is who are these insurance companies? If you have, for example. 30 g. The internship and in each year you earn exactly the average salary in the Republic of Croatia then you have 30 values or personal points and you belong to the account of pensions of 30 times the current value of the pension, which is exactly the lowest pension of 30g. Internship. So, if you've got your entire career paid at a level or just below average government salary, you're in a pension system social case. In practice, we have another problem, many employers paid only minimum wage for many workers, and then they would normally compensate some gray or illegal ways through various unreported incomes, supplements. Workers who thus received minimum wage during a multi-year period are certainly falling or will be included in the future users of the lowest pension, and we see that the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia for February was 7,452 kuna, and a minimum of only 3,750 so is almost twice as much. Whoever receives the minimum wage will have a calculated pension well above the lowest and will be awarded the lowest. It's totally fine for those workers who really only received that minimum wage and nothing else. However, those who received minimum wage plus some undeclared supplements have, or their employers, played the system twice. For the first time through the payment of unreported and then not taxed parts of the salary, and the second time when they qualify as users of the lowest pension as a protected group. It's very bad and I don't know how to fix it. However, it is quite clear with at least forwards we must end up with such false pay returns. And finally another thing at the moment AVM, the current value of pension is 73.13 kuna, a person who has achieved an internship for a total duration of 40 years, and has received a salary equal to the average in the Republic of Croatia then receives a pension of 3.715 kuna, 3.715 with a 27% allowance included here. Since the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia was 7,452 in February, this means that the insurance undertaking receives a 50% pension of its average salary. The theory is that a 40-year-old security guard should receive at least 60% of the salary, even final salary, but at least 60% of the average career. It is a minimum criterion of the adequateness of pensions that every pension system must meet, 60% of its salary at 40 years of training. If we wanted to achieve that pension for our average 40-year-old insurance company, it should be HRK 4.471, that's 20% more than the pensioner is receiving today. If we respect regular harmony that is about to happen, for example, 4 or slightly more per cent on our chance then we need a pension adequately raised not by 20 but by 16%, to get the mentioned limit of adequateness 60% of our own salary for 40 years of service. This tells us that only to bring the system to some lower limit of adequateness all pensions should be raised by 16%, though not all because there is no reason to raise those that are determined or calculated under special conditions. This increase should only apply to pensions that are accounted for and determined under the Pension Insurance Act. According to HZMO's financial plan for this year, you account for those pensions under the law not for special, privileged, those pensions need something over 38 billion kuna this year. If we want a 16% increase we're missing about another 6 billion kuna. So an additional 6 billion to 19 billion is otherwise the transfer of the budget to HZMO. So here's the 6 billion I think you can say that our system, the pension system at least when we talk about the pension system in the 1st pillar, is actually for those 6 billion a year it's poorer than it should be. All that seems, of course, that we can't do it right away, that's understandable, and that's what we need to keep in mind, and that's what we're going to set out to reach it with some gradual planning in the coming years. All that seems, instead, to this day at the debate, these are small steps, they are too small for real needs and are limited only to certain groups of pensioners, not necessarily to all the necessary ones, and it also disrupts the design of the system. Therefore, although any kuna increase in pensions for the most vulnerable is important such partial ad hoc interventions for the country are expensive and for the system as a whole insufficiently effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119472	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Majda Buric, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119473	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear MPs and MPs in HS, respected assistant director of the administration of Čičak. So, the bill that is before us and which, according to the debates so far, has a high degree of consensus that I am very pleased with, so this law, in my opinion, is a courageous and reform step that will directly affect the increase in what family pensions make the lowest pensions and I will dare say that this law is actually a continuation of pension reform. I remind you that it was just the pension reform of 2018. the aim of which was to achieve adequateness or increase pensions, but also the sustainability of the pension system that has been achieved among other things and the following, is to allow a choice on a more favourable pension, so either from the 1st pillar increased by 27% or from the 1st and 2nd pillars plus between 20 and 27% on the 1st pillar. Generational inequality has also been resolved, a demographic measure has been introduced related to an added six-month internship for mothers and adoptive women, which ultimately means an average of 2% higher pension per child. Also introduced is a more favourable model for harmonising pensions 70:30 or 30:70 depends on the more favourable growth in consumer prices as well as on wage growth. A circle of pensioners who can also work and receive a pension has also been expanded, and today, almost 23,000 pensioners are benefiting from that right. It is doubled, i.e. the award for later retirement, so-called The bonusation that stimulates longer working life, so in 5 years longer work or longer work in the world, the pension will be up by as much as 20.4%. In addition, the minimum pensions have been further increased by 3.13%, the individual capitalised savings system, i.e. the 2nd pillar, such as the reduction of administrative costs, exit, entry and other fees, but the investment of pension funds has also been liberalised. The way the new members are deployed, related to a, b and c category, has been changed, and a one-time payment of 15% from the second pillar has been made, which has so far been used by almost 3370 users. The maximum is also, administratively relieved and voluntary pension savings, i.e. the 3rd pension pillar, and that is, by abolishing the entry fee, if I am not mistaken, it was around 1250 kuna. All of this affected that we today have a better pension system, that all pensions, for all pensioners by 20%, and pensions for those who receive the lowest pension, are higher by as much as 26.5% and this is not just the impact of indexation but is the impact and effect of pension reform. I stress that none of this has come in itself but is the result of very serious thinking and decision-making, all in order to improve the social position and status of elderly people and pensioners. It should not be forgotten, too, that within a year of all this, this government has paid 2 times the fee, following the Covid crisis and following the growth of consumer prices, these are one-off benefits of up to 1200 kuna for all pensioners who have a pension of up to 4 thousand kuna. A national benefit has also been imposed for elderly people over 65 who do not have the conditions for retirement, so 15 years of training. In all of this, this proposal of our current Pension Insurance Act is, in fact, the continuity in the implementation of the pension reform, as many before me have already said, 4 are the basic changes, so the users of family pensions allow a fairer way of calculating pensions, i.e. an increase in family pensions by 10%, which on average means 250 kuna, as well as the possibility of combining the entire personal and 27% family pensions from the deceased, which is an average of 510 kuna, noting that the upper limit is 5850 kuna. So far, the possibility in the Croatian legal system has not existed. Also, the lowest pensions increase by an additional 3% and there is still the possibility of working and receiving a pension for professional firefighters. So, these 4 basic changes will bring us this Law will affect the improvement of social security, especially of widow women who are in fact 93% of family pensioners, and this will certainly prevent and reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion, but also mitigates the decline of living standards due to the death of spouses and partners. I am also pleased that today after this point we are discussing an increase in parental compensation, so those other six months after the child is born to 7.5 thousand kuna. Why am I saying that? Because it will continue to strengthen women and the position of the family, but it also improves the position of women in making pensions. That's why I think it's an extremely important thing. And in a broader context, all the changes we are discussing today were prescribed by the HDZ electoral programme, after which the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, then the NRS, the National Development Strategy until 2030 and afterwards, made a very big contribution to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan until 2026. I remind you that the average family pension is slightly less than 2500 kuna and that these changes and supplements will cover nearly 300 thousand users, providing an additional 4.4 billion kuna by 2025. It should also be stressed that family pensions will continue to grow through regular pension coordination and that family pensioners can receive full pension and work until half their working hours. As pensions are being kept and jobs, it is important to stress that we today have 45 thousand more employees compared to the budget, and we have 100 thousand more employees, more specifically, on the day of 30.6. this year we have 1,640,000 employees, and also a record low number of unemployed. This information is extremely important, it is extremely important because it has a direct impact, of course, on the relationship between pensioners and insurance companies, which today is 1:1,32. Also, what I must stress is that I do not consider the high age of life a burden but as much as possible for the progress of society, primarily because of the wealth of experiences of pensioners and their skills and HDZ will certainly continue to make efforts to raise the standard of living for older people and pensioners in their better social protection and integration, as well as to preserve and raise the standards of Croatian pensioners. What I want to point out in the end is that the average pension for a pensioner with 40 and more years stands at nearly 5,000 kuna, more precisely, 4998 and that that is the share of 66% in the average salary and that this is actually the data that tells us that we should continue to motivate as long a stay in the world of work as long as it means a higher pension. Once again, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I welcome the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Pension Insurance Act and the HDZ will certainly support this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119474	In the name of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Željko Pavić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119475	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, just in the beginning to point out, I am an opposition politician, but I will always vote for what is good for our citizens. No matter which side the initiative comes from. Well, let's call me tokens, let's call me sleepers, but I'll give a vote always for our citizens, for our pensioners, for our employment, for our students, for our students, for our farmers. Here, so introductive. Thank you very much. This Law came after mentioning this initiative in 2018, you can find it on the pages of the Economic Institute, 2018 it was already written that it would be good to actually be part of a pension that is not paid because a spouse died, that it would be good to pay off a family pension, it finally came on the agenda and we think it's good and we certainly won't be against it. Here we also mention a 10% pension growth, we know that there will be about so much inflation, so the effect for our pensioners won't be great, but we think it's better than nothing, especially if we see that the price rises most in food products, means what pensioners have to buy, about the energy that pensioners have to use and given these 10% will certainly be more on these products than they will be in other products. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to propose a few amendments and additions because we think that would be good, which is to be in art. 74 The applicable Pension Insurance Act provides for the payment of the liability of the family pension to each family member and, where they do not reside separately, in cases where they live in the same household. It was one of, one of the proposals and in the debate, and we think that it is a good proposal because it is not good for someone to depend, especially if the person is elderly, depends on the survivor’s parent and can’t reach his means, especially if, for example, it’s a temporary case at the study, even worse if, for example, the parent is sick and receives the pension, or the pension he receives in this, cash, and then he has to send it to the child in charge, make payments through neighbors, friends, known friends, I think it would be a good thing, it’s not a big problem, regardless of what it says in the explanation that the pension is being accounted for, i.e. that part is calculated together and that it is paid. Here, the suggestion is to change that into an article. 74 and thus help all those who receive a joint family pension in one single account, to schedule it if they apply for it. Furthermore, I have already spoken here several times about that it would be good not to impose penalties in fixed amounts, i.e. that the penalties are not written in fixed amounts, but rather to do so either in percentages or to put it in comparison with concrete incomes, and here we can specifically put these criminal provisions in relation to the amount of minimum pensions, so I suggest that this be brought into line in Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the amendments and the addition of this Law because it would make it easier for us to work much later. In fact, no amendments and additions to the law would be necessary if the pension increased, or if the pension increased, so that these criminal provisions should not be changed any more than just multiplying something with that minimum amount of pension obtained. There have been various remarks here and the story of how HZMO is investing in stocks, bonds, but we have to correct these colleagues and colleagues, that's not true. If someone invests in shares and bonds, they invest pension funds, and HZMO doesn't invest because there's too little money anyway, because there's too little money to pay their pensions, and pension funds lose money in a variety of ways. Let's just remind ourselves of the new Minister of Paladin who, among other things, took several million kunas without shame and transferred it to his account, various games and financial mixing. Here we asked the minister several times if he would do an analysis and whether this analysis would be comprehensive. The minister said many of these factors would be taken into account, he did not mention the property sensation that many are calling for in their, in their discussions, but the question is how to ask it and how to define it. In fact, people who have made more than the rest of their lives, who have some real estate, they have invested a lot more money in the pension fund because they have had bigger incomes and now if we have already paid them one part of the money based on those percentages, if they have paid it into the pension fund, if they have paid into the health fund, the question is whether it makes sense now that we will penalize them once more, given that all the conditions that have been said that we will receive money from pension funds as much as we have paid, or whether there is now an all-quota share in relation to the payment if we are going to take property sensations now is what would have happened and would have been right, would have given it to be good, would have given it to our pensioners who are now living in their homes or in some, perhaps, some larger apartments, after that we would be at the loss or, plus. After all, the standards that have reached during their working hours would be difficult to maintain with smaller pensions if we further penalize them. We feel that we need to help the poorest, the lowliest pensioners, that we need to help all those who don't have enough resources for a normal life, but I also think that we don't need to penalize those who normally live so that we don't create new poverty. We also believe that yesterday we tried to discuss it outside, outside of our own, our discussion hall where we had a board, which is rewarding years of work above the average years of work with which our fellow citizens retire. In fact, we heard here and from the minister that the average age is about 34 if I'm not mistaken, right? is retired even if additional stimulation may be given to those who are more than 34 years old. Except for what they've been getting for the longer they've been doing, so they've got a little more retirement, maybe it'll be an additional stimulation. We have another information that the ratio of employees and pensioners is 1:1,32, the question is how accurate this data is because don't forget that in this data 1:1,32 they enter and those who are employed as pensioners, so they've gone into retirement and then they've been employed for 4 hours and they're still employed, now the question to what extent it is, what is this number and the question is where we take it, where we take the data, whether we take it to the Institute for, at HZMO because there are also contributions paid by students working through student service, so it's far less than what is actually paid if you're constantly employed in businesses, these are exact figures, you don't need, you don't need a kimat, it's 100% true. So I'm just trying, trying to problem the numbers to make it easier and do the analysis later, hopefully we'll be some of us and working groups, so we know what we need to analyze, to see the exact data that we have. In fact, if we took an average of this average personal income and we multiplied it by the number of current employees, I'm afraid we wouldn't get a figure that is currently being paid into the pension system but we'd get a lot less, so one part of the money is missing, and that's very much like this after that to analyze and reach conclusions. We will as the Social Democrats Club as I said at the beginning, we will certainly not be against this law because it goes in favor of our fellow citizens, it goes in favour of our pensioners, our pensioners, and so we will... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119476	Thank you. In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This topic today is a good reason to point out some things regarding the weakness of the Croatian pension system as a whole. I will remind you at the beginning that when German Chancellor Bismarck introduced this concept to ensure that the state secures retirement for older citizens, it was foreseen at the time for the 1970s age, so there was a big question of who ever experienced that benefit from the state in the way the German Chancellor introduced it in the 19th century. However, mathematics is inexorable and the situation today is completely different, not only in Europe but also in other countries, it is not only Croatia in these problems, they concern other and richer countries than us, however, the question is still raised as further. I will highlight a few indicators and figures that actually I think reveal how difficult the situation is in Croatia. So every year, at the beginning of each fiscal year, we know that there will be a shortage in the pension fund of at least 20 billion kuna if not more than 56% of the salaries cover about 56% of pensions, 56%, so pensions are paid in part out of contributions, but the same significant part of other VAT taxes, excise taxes and the like, firstly. So the model we have this system has actually gone bankrupt long ago and it's inequitable and unsustainable. Secondly, regarding the second pillar, many talk about the reform, it is not yet completed, but it should be said that according to the latest data, a small number of investors, a small number of our employees personally choose the fund in which their money will be, each month, 4%. So our citizens do not show great interest in how they will deal with their money. That's our money, so it comes from every employee's gross salary, every employee's salary. 96% goes by automatic key in four mandatory pension funds, so we need to keep working on informing our citizens that this is their savings. The same should be said that, with all the shortages of this existing system, pension funds are actually investing in government bonds, so they are largely involved in financing deficits and public debt in Croatia, however, there should be an open saying that, compared to other countries, there are great opportunities with the deregulation of these rules that these funds invest in other products on the market, and not only to finance the irresponsibly irresponsible behaviour of our politicians because we are kind of spinning around and then offerings are smaller than they could be. So the question arises whether we should trust the Ministry of Finance in those who run the Pension Insurance Office or not? We see in fact because of the legacy of communism or socialism that we are simply climbing up the hill all the time because of these inherited problems, so we have not had a competitive economy, we have never been a country with high wages compared to others, and there is an open word without structural reforms we will never be, we will never be. So the question arises whether we still have reason to believe that the government ministers, any government, will manage well with our money or not? That's the basic question. I would bet there, though, that people who single out 15% every month have the right to choose how that money will be invested. Experience has shown in many countries that this concept, such a model, is unsustainable, unsustainable not only with us. So the math I'm going to repeat is inexorable and there we have to be simply not only honest but soberly looking at how little by little we change things. The best way for me is for sure to implement final reforms to make the country a country of truly economic freedom, for people to start creating and working here, not leaving because it doesn't matter how many people are in a working relationship, it doesn't matter. Every minister of labour and pension system is well aware of demographic trends, whether or not we will be, whether people will have children or not, it affects the whole picture of communities, not just individual families. So it's all one problem to look at as a whole. So structural reforms without decisions to make Croatia a more competitive country, and this introduction of the euro will not change anything overnight, so all the weaknesses that exist in Croatia will not go away by introducing a new currency. We need to look at the price of not implementing reforms because every member of the government I have met during the former government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, each government is dealing with the same problems because no one is willing to carry out reforms in the right way. There are only reforms on the lips, and there are none in the works, unfortunately. So, I'm going to repeat from gross salary 15%, which stands out for the 1st pillar is covered by 56% of the needs, so something needs to change urgently here, and I've repeatedly been in controversy with former Minister Maric, with the minister on his way out asking how he's looking because he was aware of the problems we're not changing, and only the government can't change that instead of the government. Thus, he too bears some responsibility for the inherited condition. I would recommend that anyone who wishes to be more informed about this topic be better acquainted with the figures that are repeated I will be inexorable. So this way of running a pension system is not only irrational but it actually costs our people multiple. So eventually, through other taxes, almost 27% of the salary is actually allocated to finance this system. So it's undeniable that at the time of inflation, the pensioners are on strike, it's undeniable and we all know it's and it's going to be state-of-the-art. Indeed, it is an invisible tax that is not felt in the same way by people and the most endangered are the pensioners of course. However, we should also look at the system as a whole and say that if nothing changes Croatia will indeed be in a more difficult and difficult situation because too few people are actually in a working relationship and are paying into this system. To all who wish to learn more about the situation I recommend the site of our pension.hr there you will see a number of data and analyses about the situation found. The domestic movement will be restrained around this proposal, however, we understand, we certainly understand that there is something we need to do to facilitate the state of pensioners, but here we are paying the price for inactions for years, years and much we cannot escape from it unfortunately. When we look at structural reforms, the great cause of these problems stems from socialism, communism and everything Croatia has inherited from the former system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119478	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119479	Good afternoon. What first needs to be said is how much will actually be included in those who, in some ways, will be rewarded with some higher pensions, we certainly welcome. We welcome that it is something that goes on the most vulnerable, the poorest, but we should see the scope of what we are doing here now, so I'm going to repeat that information that you have and in this law means that more than 277,000 users of the lowest pension means 277,000, but those at risk of poverty, and that's why I asked the question, we don't have a number, but it's estimated that there are some 600,000 people, 600,000 pensioners living at risk of poverty, so these are the ratios. In any case, according to statistical studies, 52% of pensioners live at risk of poverty. What should certainly be said when it comes to what counterpart Buric praised the government of Andrej Plenkovic that pensions grew in his term, I think you said about 20%, that, then we should always take into those statistics as much as they grew elsewhere, how many pensions grew elsewhere, does nothing mean anything to us the data grew 20%. So before the government, Andrej Plenkovic was a major recession, so if artificial intelligence were the prime minister, things would have been better. Maybe artificial intelligence would be a little better maybe I'm not sure. But under these conditions, certainly some conjuncture made this government the worst of the best, so she managed to make things worse than the ones on the machine would have been better. So what the minister said to me here in response to me is that we don't actually address the problem in a way that really all the poorest in some way help is also relevant indeed, which is that we don't have an asset or income censorship or data on foreign pensions, and that really is the problem. So we can't know how poor someone is if we don't have an insight into his property censorship, if we don't have a clue whether he's receiving a pension from abroad, it absolutely stands, but why we don't have that information. So we have to have that data, we have to address poverty the real way, so the real thing is that we get an insight into who's got the lowest pension, and if he's really poor or not, or if we're going to help someone who doesn't know who paid the minimum wager, he was an entrepreneur, and then we're going to help him have the lowest pension, and he actually has millions in his accounts. So we have to have insight into who has who and who's the poorest and that's what we can do. If it's possible for MPs, then it can be for anyone. What we want to say here is that there have been a lot of words on the board, we can really even agree with some of the comments there that all pensions could have been raised by 1%, is why it didn't work out, but I'm not going to get into that argument right now. And what's the best fact that we haven't done much here is that what I mentioned in my question, the average pension in 2022 is just a little higher than 3,000 kuna, and its share and that's the most important data in the average salary is 40%, only 40%, and two years ago it was only 37% worse, and in Europe the average is 54%. Now this is the data that should be presented, not about the government of Andrej Plenkovic's pensions have grown 20% that's not that data but our share of our means the share in the average salary of our pension is 40% in Europe is 54%. In the dark socialism, colleagues and colleagues who loved to use the term were 70% just to point out. That's real data. What was mentioned on the board the same thing, and I think there's really truth here is that I think now I'm going to suspect that it's a social measure, not a labor measure. So we're not going to raise all the pensions, encourage, solve the low-income pensions problem, but we're actually solving the palitative things that people who really have the lowest incomes. This tells you and this data I think the average family pension was only 2,458 kuna, which is the share in the average... salary only 32%, the average minimum pension of only 2,000 kuna, the share in the average salary of 24%. It is necessary to discuss the pension system in general. Now, this law and now we can't do it with regard to this law I don't know what to comment on this law regulates the first pillar, but what was important to us is why no one really opens the question so-called. entrepreneurship activities of HZMO is we believe that pensions could be bigger if pensions are not played by entrepreneurs playing with our money is eaten. HZMO owned by HMID means Croatian pension investment company that manages the capital fund and HMDI plus. The Capital Fund manages about a billion kuna and the basis of HRMOD which creates losses at the time when HZMO has a 20 billion-dollar pension payment hole, means the cube is invested in bonds, the capital fund is established by insurance companies, and that the state wanted to be an insurance company then probably wouldn't sell Croatia's insurance, so the HRMOD that serves to pay out pensions from the second and third pillars is condemned to losses, and it is generally known that RBA wanted to sell its RMOD, does not want to be founded by one Allianz with a million clients, and is founded by HZMO, means not to order fictitious studies of the meaning of Primorce's friend, that it does not gamble with bonds, shares, and everything already the pensions could be bigger, why this money is not distributed to the pensioners, why is not distributed? The point is to clean HZMO out of all entrepreneurial activities, with 20 billion kuna debt is not invested in entrepreneurial projects, banning all studies, donations and the like, waste of money until debt is resolved, studies can be done by the Institute of Public Finance, the Faculty of Economics, and not by serving as a polygon to extract money under the public procurement radar, absolutely collapses like geese in fog, and ultimately means all of this is paid by us taxpayers. That's where the minister answered my question means about entrepreneurship that didn't really mean HZMO told me the capitalized savings were fertilized, did they? It is not true that the contributions are not shown, so they do not show real contributions but almost so nominal, the contributions are included in the management fee, but not the entry fee, there is no what for interest in the loan means the ECS means effective interest rates plus the contributions are shown according to the calculation as if the total payment of the members was suddenly at the beginning of the membership of the pension fund, and such a member does not exist, it is clear that each month is paid by the salary over 25 and 30 years, meaning it is manipulated with contributions and small pensions, I mean small pensions and because of our business activities, but they are certainly small and because we gamble, we play entrepreneurship with contributions that are actually negative and which are manifested manipulatively as fertilised savings. So we think it would be a good time to deal with these issues, and I say we welcome every increase in pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119480	We will now take a short break to one hour when there will be a statement of view on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. MEETING IN 12.53 HOURS We are going back to our point of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, individual debates. And the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119482	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. I'm going to spend the first minute of my presentation in some way on these shows on behalf of the club, and I'm going to say that, Mr. Lalovec, you're in a lot of ways right about what you said. However, a small number of years of internships do not mean that we have young pensioners. It's a very good matter of cutting down statistics. And secondly, yes and you're right when you say that the state is 80% responsible for the lowest pensions, but 20% is not. You know, craftsmen were able to pay in the past, so they set the lowest contribution rate. So they could pay more. And today, according to the author's work, it can be paid, which means that it wouldn't be exactly a liberalisation of the payment of the contribution that would bring us some great and bright future, because everyone would look to pay as little as possible, and after 14 years of the internship would say, "Listen, I've been paying a lot of money for 40 years." I don't know how much, at a minimum rate, and he says now I have only 3,000 kuna or nearly 3,000 kuna pensions. So that's what I'm asking you to do when there's a retirement report and we're gonna cut him to the punch. And Anka Mrak-Taritash said one thing that the pension system is burdened with the past and that often in the past it was a social anchor, a social amortizer for the Republic of Croatia. Let's remember in '99 when 70,000 people went into invalid retirement because they were on pension care. So we're right, but we need to talk sober and slow. I'm going back to this law in question and I'd like to point out what's important to say. So family pensions in terms of winning in terms of exercising the right to part of the deceased's pension, so they refer to those who will be in the future in that status and those who have already retired, for ten years whose partner or partner has passed away. Yes, and it's important to say that if someone's partner died 10 years ago, and he's entitled to, at that point he was entitled to a family pension, but it was a more favourable retirement of the outstretched one, he's now going to get 27% of the family pension, but not those pensions when someone died, but it's going to take place at today's level through the alignments through those 6, 7 or 10 years after the unfortunate circumstance of death occurred. That's very important to say, because people are asking, so you're not going to give me 27% of some pension there that was 10 years ago 1,500 kuna. No, all of this will be aligned to today's level and then it will determine that 27% of the family pension. It is essential and fundamental that someone at the time of the death of a partner was entitled to a family pension. It's that he was 50 years old if they lived alone or something sooner if they had children. That's the most important fact. Anything else if someone was using the deceased's pension or not at that time, whether he made a request or not is of less importance. So it's important that he was exercising his right, and always in the pension system is, therefore, the fundamental principle of choosing a more favourable right. If a person had a higher pension for why he should have been, he had to take the family, but perhaps the children used the family because that protection is again a protection of the family, and now we build up this principle and protect the family in the disappearing phase when a man remains alone that he is not poor because he is usually abandoned, sick, and old. So we give each other a dimension of protecting the family from its creation to the end. Therefore, it is the size of this law and therefore should be appreciated and the message is very emotional of this law and the reactions are very emotional in the sense that people say I am glad to get something after 10 years from my deceased husband or wife. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119483	Stay here, please. We have more replicas. The first is the respected representative Pocrnic-Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119484	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. You yourself participated in the initiative and in the proposals for the adoption of these amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, and you know that the most important thing that will be the most interesting and significant pensioners is the increase of the pension factor by 10% and that will be solved by automation. So, the pensioners will feel the increase at their retirement levels in February 2023. The second thing is the right to part of the family pension of the deceased family member for whom the application will be required and that is, but to make a preliminary calculation to see what is more favourable for each individual insurance company. You yourself mentioned that this system allows you to choose the best right for an insurance company. It would therefore be additional challenges for the Croatian Pensions Institute, but also for all those associations, counties, cities, municipalities to provide that information, to make sure that all the pensioners get information about their rights, because it really wouldn't be good. to lose their rights. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119485	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119486	Yes, and yesterday I was talking about the need for us to master as much information as possible, because not just me people on the ground will ask us what their rights will be and what the procedure will be. So our task force didn't stop working. We've come to this stage to present to you what we've done so far. But we will certainly plan every detail, predicting that people are less involved that they have to go around the counters or I don't know what, to solve everything through one request and of course it will depend on the complexity of the case itself. If someone in his pension didn't use the family, and he's right, it's very simple to go. But if you need to move from now on family to your own to get an add-on it's a little more complicated system. This will take a little longer than the search for some pensions and cases that occurred 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119487	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In order to achieve the right to retire there are different criteria, the number of years and internships, the working experience and years of age for different pensions are different. Clearly all of this is clearly prescribed by certain laws and regulations. However, you were also a member of the task force when this law was passed is the most significant change we are now talking about achieving the right to let's say on two pensions one plus that supplement. In order to achieve this supplement, there should be a specific number of years, so 65. There is no transitional period why this is the case and whether it is considered discrimination in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119489	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119490	Dear colleague Murganic, this could not be considered discrimination because we have gender equality in the exercise of family pension rights, so it is okay to have gender equality in the achievement of the post-dead part. So, you know that in a family pension at the same age, a man and a woman can go away, so there's no dilemma at all. It's 50 years or earlier if children are underage, etc. So that's where we have the gender equality present. Here we also set birth equality at 65 years, and besides I ask you one thing we can make a compromise and discount there. But whether a discount is done by foreign insurance companies to give you pensions before 65, before you exercise the right to your pension. No, you have to be 65 years old to get a pension from abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119491	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, today we've talked a lot about those who have the lowest pensions, so I'm interested in you being a member of the task force. So this is one legislative proposal that solves more the issue of family pensions. Now, if there are any other instruments to help those who have the lowest pensions, this part we said that this 1 and a half percent probably won't be enough for them. Are there any other instruments where you can help those who have the lowest pensions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119493	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119494	Dear fellow Lalovac, a very inspiring question for some future time, to consider because it is a problem not only of pension systems. The peace system will not be more able to respond to the lowest pensions much to raise the lowest pensions, because then they come bigger than those who have paid their own contributions. But there are systems, for example, in our neighbouring Republic of Slovenia that have devised a strategy against poverty that means that those who have no one, those who no one cares about, who live alone must have the right to a decent life and to a greater income. So then the welfare would be upgraded to pension incomes to get everyone to a certain limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119495	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119496	Dear fellow Members, these amendments and additions apply only to the lowest pensions and family pensions of groups exposed to poverty. On improving pensioners who have made their pensions work and have more than a minimum pension, they do not foresee any improvement. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119497	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119498	Yes, for all those who have earned pensions greater than the lowest remaining is the regular alignment that is being discussed here today. That's twice a year. This is compared to 70, 30 compared to a larger factor in whether it is inflation or wage growth and it is a mechanism that has almost all countries to maintain the purchasing power of pensions. Whether what percent said is right is the minister and I believe that in cooperation with all pension societies, it will make a debate, see if the basket of those products that enter the consumer basket is correct or not all to question when it comes to the formula of harmonisation in order to maintain the purchasing power of pensions and the value of pensions as favourablely as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119499	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119500	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honored colleague, you will likely know the answer to my inquiry as it is carried out, and I believe you are aware of that. For example, if a widow asks 27% of her family pension for her pension, and that pension is already used by a person with disabilities or a child with disabilities. How's that gonna work out? Whether the person with disabilities will remain with that pension and the widow 27% of the same pension or the family pension for two family members with a pension factor of 0.88.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119501	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119502	It has been said that this part of a person with disabilities can be passed on for life, and here on the other hand, we have a 65 - year - old condition that someone personally starts using it. I have to admit, I haven't given enough attention to that detail. In my opinion, since it's a relatively small number of such complicated cases I think we should protect both the child and the widow, but we need to see, we need to take another look at it, examine it. Thank you very much for the suggestion and for pointing to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119503	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119504	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. It's a good thing you mentioned and this law applies to family. There have been very many cases where the spouses worked both, where the widow worked for 20, 30 years and she used a family pension, so 70%. And then that past work, hers actually went for solidarity purposes. So this is how it returns to the very people who have worked, who have achieved past work something that in this way they actually have a single satisfaction that at age they have some greater pension than the one that was so far under the previous law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119505	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119506	Yeah, you're a colleague of Peric's right. However, we also set a limit there. We've set up the largest sum of pensions and that part per deceased, although there's also those who use the deceased's pension today if it's much bigger than theirs and tomorrow they're winning, because they're getting the same 10% rate. So no one here is threatened by something else because we've set that limit. And it's always what's left in retirement that has the right to choose a more favourable right. Of course one number of them will give you a calculation, so look what's more favourable. It would be best if we could arrange for one pattern to be defined, one requirement, and a person to sign to give him a more favourable right. Therefore, it is important that no one is damaged and everyone is on the receiving end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119507	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119508	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, in previous discussions, we have all agreed that this is definitely one of the steps forward and that it will improve the material condition of our pensioners mainly those who are most at risk with all that is happening around us. But if we take into account all inflationary pressures, all that is announced to us for the fall that could be politically and businessly hot, only unfortunately our citizens are cold whether you think these are sufficient steps or simply think that in the coming period there will be more interventions in the pension system to protect the standard of our pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119509	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119510	These are very significant steps because it's every month's reception. Whether it will be an average of 230 or 250 kuna for those who do not have an internship or it will be an average of 510 kuna for those who have the right to part of the pension after the deceased, but these are significant amounts. It's of the least I don't know two and a half thousand kunas a year to six, seven and more thousand kunas. So it's a contribution to one of the stability of the pension standard, but there's no need to forget the alignment that's going to be between 5% and 6% in September. And I agree that if there is a good charge of the budget and that if there is a growing inflation at the monthly level that is always as I have done, as I have initiated and mentioned in January this year, we will discuss this with the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a parliamentary majority meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119511	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119512	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague. This debate so far shows that there is a high level of support for this bill from all sides of the Parliament. However, it is good to point out once again, so the Croatian system for the first time introduces that someone can use two basic pensions, so he can use his family pension and his pension, and that is one big step we haven't had so far, but what's very important is that these family pensions really grow 10%, and when we still take that nearly half a million pensioners are covered by this proposal which, then I simply have to congratulate those of you who took part in all this, on what you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119513	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119514	Thank you. And I congratulate you on your rapid acceptance of matter. You've said this wonderfully, this is a two-base pension, so according to your personal pension and the part of your deceased spouse's pension, which is legally very, very, very, very correct. Thank you, both for your congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119515	Thank you very much. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister with an associate. Well, I'm glad today that in Parliament, no matter what side it comes from, some constructive proposals are coming and that, when it comes to helping the most vulnerable, that there is one very high level of consent and around all these instruments that the government actually has ahead of it, this is one of them, today we're talking about only the most important part of family pensions, I think this is, let's say one, another benefit that we're in the EU. This is what I have been saying all the time, as a parrot I keep saying, is that I still think that those who have been skeptical about Croatia and the euro and the euro area and membership show that we are still in line with these standards of Western Europe which, let's be honest, has the best standard in the world, however much it is, that the problems everywhere in the world, but the standards in China, in the United States, in Latin America are probably not what Western Europe has, and we are using these benefits, and these are certainly positive effects on the Croatian economy, ultimately and for Croatian citizens. So, so this is definitely going to give positive effects. What we need to consider further safely is that, I'm, I'm glad today that the minister said he's going to take a full set of coordination discussions, right? It's really in front of us now because until there was this inflation of 15, 20%, etc., it could have been, whatever formulas we put on, they could have passed, and let's not forget that in the past, the salaries have grown twice as much as pensions, and when Minister Maric was doing tax reform, when he was doing tax reform, it means that one part of the income was released, he was going to a large part of the citizens, but that part of the income went into savings, that part of the income went into savings, and that's why today we have a very high accumulation of savings, and that's not so much of a problem as financial.../incomprehensible/... so now we need to direct us because in fact every circumstance makes us to some different instruments to go into consumption. Why? Because this will be passed by law 1.1.2023. Let's be honest, no one knows what it's going to look like in 2023, everyone announces if there's going to be a recession in 2023, and these funds that might look like billions of kunas today that we can only collect over the summer, the question is what they're going to collect in 2023, etc., so it's good to have this done before it does, before this crisis comes. But certainly we're thinking again about how and in what way, with which instruments to encourage consumption, but let's not forget that pensioners, all of this going out of the budget, these 50 billion, they're going back into consumption, they have nothing to spare, right? Unlike citizens who are 20 or 30.../incomprehensible/... 20% of their income still somehow having higher incomes can save, right? And because of that, every addition to the pensioners will not be lost, they will not return to some part of the savings but will go into consumption and return to the budget. So regardless, I'm saying maybe some fears about whether this coordination can be done by a better factor and what my colleague Hrelja was saying, and to look at the actual basket of consumption of pensioners, it might certainly be possible to give a better calculation of compliance because now the general level of prices is going normally, in this general level of price you have and energy that grows 40%, food 15%, and you have some products that grow 2 or 3 or 5%. However, what pensioners spend, perhaps in that, continuation of the working group, is really seeing what is actually being spent on, and that what is in line and what we are actually talking about, that through that part, the biggest part is going back to consumption, and that state budget is not going to lose it. And about the anti-poverty strategy, so we've seen that here we can't possibly through this, through this legislative change, what our colleague Hrelja said, though, that there's not a number of these, payments that have been made through a certain past, that an instrument is found, that those who really have the lowest incomes, that if in the past I say there was no payment of contributions or less work experience, though we don't leave them on the wind today of these unfavourable macroeconomic circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119517	We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119518	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Lalovec, here as former finance minister, I'm sure you can see that we have a billion and 217 million kuna for the next, a billion and 470 million kuna for 2024 and a billion 706 million kuna in 2025. You mentioned yourself in the opening debates that perhaps with these hundred million kunas we are supposed to have to increase it anyway. So here, as a former finance minister and a man who understands himself very well in finance right now, maybe that's how we comment together, that's to tell us where the country might actually get a little more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119519	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119520	Thank you. Well, yeah, so this whole package that we're going to support together is about a billion, a billion and a hundred. And as it was actually mentioned somewhere about 350 million kuna goes for one measure, 750 for another and about 100 million goes for this third measure of raising this minimum wage. I think the second reading will be found especially because let's not forget it won't be and if there is a slowdown in the economy there won't be such a drastic drop in prices. Yet what happens now, the prices have come to such a high level and they, and if they fall somewhere 5 to 10.5%, they will still remain high. And that part, and we're afraid that that part of the citizens then don't have to go back to minuses on the bills, bank minuses, over the counter, over those when they went into various illegal minuses. And that's why I think the government, I think they'll find more than 100 million kuna for these minimum pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119521	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119522	Dear fellow Lalovac, to be sure that EU membership brings us some benefits, but each Member State creates its pension system and must determine what it wants and how it wants to take care of its pensioners. The result of our intentions and our work is here before you. And of course I'm glad you're questioning all the opportunities that can be made for the benefit of the pensioners and we're very much discussing it in public. However, it should be said that I have been here for 19 years, in all these 19 years, the pension reform of 1999 is being repaired because, according to the creators of the World Bank reform, if this were the way it was imagined, we would be at a replacement rate of 25% of the average salary. She's still at 40. I'm not asking for any praises, just to say that the pension system is constantly being repaired by all governments. It's not an exclusive of a government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119523	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119524	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Maybe one more thing I forgot to say, I hope the minister follows. We speak and, in fact, every day and those who are in the second pension column today receive reports that they are actually falling in the second pillar of their pension. That's what we all get through those reports. And then there are pension funds of category A, B and C. And in order for the state to limit, to reduce a certain risk, or legally define that for the last five years you have to be in column C. And today I have a crazy situation for you when interest rates are growing because interest rates are growing at the rate of bonds you're going opposite. She's going the other way. When interest rates grow, bonds fall. Since those who have funds in C have the most bonds, their share is now falling, and that's the challenge we're talking about in this part again. I hope that you will find reasons and be allowed maybe, but not to go to that part of the risk again. Because that's when you let them I can go back to risk A, come back A. What a market we don't know. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119525	Next replica, respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119526	Since you have enough experience as a finance minister and as a definitive expert on public finances, my question for you is why do you think that the government is not resorting to a faster pace of pension coordination and why it simply does not show that they care, that when the fall starts, when further inflation strikes the higher coverage of pensioners will be in those measures and pension balances. Is there not enough in the budget or is it waiting after the tourist season to have a VAT eruption in the budget, so that further moves can be made afterwards?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119527	Thank you. I believe now that the new minister comes. He certainly has three measures to do first. First of all, it's a budget rebalance, because that's just how income goes, and so is the spending side, that I'm sure they'll have to see by the end of the year how much money actually came in more. I honestly believe because the pensioners what we said, em, are the most exposed, em that I simply can't find any other additional source of income or work etc. in the market that by the end of the year, given this energy crisis, we do not know what the heating season is going to be like. I honestly believe, because the government has twice done it to do it through that energy supplement because it's the fastest thing that can bring and bring certain effects. And what my colleague Hrelja said today is she actually has the opposite of that dialogue and I think that's good. Those who have the least to get the most, but these are one-time intervention measures that I honestly believe that by the end of the year will be found the means to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119528	The last replica, the esteemed Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119529	Thank you. Dear fellow Lalovac, in your discussions so far, you have often touched a pensioner with the lowest pensions, so here's my particular question to you as former minister in which all together could help those people, not live at the poverty line anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119530	Thank you. Here's a thank you. That's actually what I asked my colleague, the Temple. That was my question to him. If we can't get through this legal solution, because actually still when we increase in this way, then we're disrupting some of what you said and some payments over several years and actually some kind of their internship, not to say that this entire system of generational solidarity is collapsing, then it's developing like Slovenia maybe. That's what my colleague said, that we're going to find some resources just saying, it's a fight not just us and Europe. And therefore, if we also have the support of the European Commission for this part of the fight against poverty, but that with other instruments, one of these instruments, let's be honest with the fight against poverty are these one-time measures an energy supplement. Yeah? I wouldn't have any problem once a year for those people who have minimum pensions, if they had agreed once a year to be a crisis or not, that part of the money would be paid off until a better instrument was found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119531	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119532	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Minister with an associate. In front of us, the law is extremely important for our pensioners and what I would draw attention to is that the EU Commission has published a green ageing book, which states that the expected life expectancy at birth has increased by approximately 10 years for men and women. So the demographic profiles of the region differ, we are not the same as some other parts of Europe and media age, e.g. In EU countries, 43.9 years and in the last 2 years, it has increased by as much as 5 years in the last 20 years, and when we compare that median age in, say, Africa, it is twice smaller. Because of all these trends, people's lives are changing greatly and affecting our society. The responsibility to deal with the consequences of ageing is largely in the hands of the Member States themselves, so we are truly self-managing. So this Law, which is proposed, is just about wanting to act on improving the position and expanding the material rights of the pensioners. When we say that 1.23 million of our pensioners are, and there are a lot of those with the lowest incomes, then pensions, then it's very important that their status is increased and improved by this measure. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan has precisely recognized this and thus actually made it possible for us to move towards raising and changing relations in family pensions, where we are thus equating ourselves with those EU countries that have had this much, much earlier. Thus, the risk of poverty is indeed diminished in this way, and in this way, the real beneficiaries of family pensions can achieve two pensions, i.e. two basics, and thus improve their standard. What is also significant is that by responding to the Covid supplement in 2021, the government provided more than 463 million kuna for 710, over 710 thousand users, and also an energy supplement for 720 thousand users worth 480 million kuna. So all the time, it's taken care of precisely that this most sensitive segment of society is to be protected in a certain way, and in addition, this Law has made it possible to retire, e.g. Professional firefighters can be treated equally, in fact, as well as military personnel and police officers where they are able to have and exercise the right in part-time and thus actually supplement or pay 50% pensions, and full-time. So all of this is included in this Law and we have to note that this is an additional requirement of 1.2 billion kuna in 2023 and nearly a billion and a half in 2024 and a billion and 700 in 2025.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119533	We have a replica, respected representatives of Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Of course, this is a very important law and we say that it is aimed at curbing poverty and social exclusion of our oldest citizens. I especially like to point out those older citizens who live in single households. However, in addition to the financial gain that each pensioner will receive, I would point out that this aid, the instrument that the government has made towards citizens to reduce poverty, is not a social category, so there is no social assistance nature, but that is the right that has been achieved on the basis of the pension internship of spouses or persons with whom it was in the household and that is the value. However, there are other options from the budget, to help those who need assistance or pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119535	Thank you very much. Yes, this is important for the prominent, so this is not social aid in this way, but all of these people use it rightly from their past work or past work of spouses. So that's what's important, and that's what actually stimulates everyone's work in the system, and that's actually the intensity and this green book where the EU is said to be, which says that it's trying to be as much in the world of work as possible, so that's the intensity of the entire EU and the EC, but that really puts a stop to poverty that's potentially at that very age when the inability to work and achieve income is additional.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119536	Next is an individual debate, respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119537	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act is a significant step in the Croatian pension system, which so far does not allow two pensions to be paid but only one that was more favourable. The state and society must not forget or ignore the elderly, since the pensioners in their previous work have entrusted society, invested in it and built it daily and earned a dignified and secure age, i.e. respect and an appropriate social position. The government of this Law shows that it cares and cares for a million and 230 thousand of our pensioners. This Law somewhere slightly over 500 thousand of our most sensitive and most exposed to the risk of poverty, especially those in single households, our fellow citizens, our pensioners, will increase pension income. The high age of life must not be considered a burden but rather a opportunity for the progress of society, primarily because of the wealth of their experience and skills. It is these amendments and additions of the Law that extend the circle of pensioners who can work until half their working hours, from professional firefighters, military personnel, police officers retired before 1999. Of course, they can also exercise the right to half their pension if they work full-time. Let us not forget that this government was equally concerned at the time of Covid, so that the users of pensions with the lowest, lowest incomes of up to 4,000 received Covid supplement and that received over 700 thousand of our pensioners. For that purpose, nearly half a million kunas were allocated. National compensation for older people for those of our elderly citizens who have not achieved income on other grounds has also been introduced. In 5 years, the average pension has increased by 432 kuna, in 4 years it has been promised to increase its pension by 5% and has already increased by almost 18%. The first pension pillar has been improved, and this Law also increases pensions from the lowest ones, and so does family, age, or early age or disability. An income census was also raised from 2000 per member to 2000 kuna per household member, or 2500 per single person. Moreover, by doing so, 120 thousand people, mostly pensioners who did not receive the right to free extra insurance, are insured. We also have the Zaželi program, he's been through this program employed by over 14,000 women who have provided help in the house for 79 thousand older people, especially in rural areas, etc. We can also see the opinions of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the Ombudsman for Children. Namely, the Gender Equality Advocate welcomed this proposal because it is generally about women who make up one member of the household in 2020 and we have over 50% of them, and family pension beneficiaries in 2022 are 92.5% and therefore the proposed increase in the pension factor for the calculation of most family pensions, as well as the introduction of the possibility of using part of the pension of the deceased spouse or extramarital partner with a personal pension, considers that it will affect the mitigation of the risk of poverty and social exclusion, especially for women of older age who make up the most sensitive group. The Ombudsman also welcomes this proposal because it stands and stands up for a family pension used by children to be excluded from the exercise, all for the purpose of meeting their daily life needs. Furthermore, not even craftsmen have been forgotten, we have about 96,620 craftsmen in Croatia. In my Sibenik-Knin County there are more than 60% of active business entities that exercise all rights through the Law on crafts, and of which over 65% in service activities, whether in catering, tourism, crafts and these amendments and additions in this Law mean especially to them at this time pandemics when many reach for the peace of crafts, putting the crafts into rest or temporary suspension.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119538	We've got a replica, the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119539	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Members, so far there has been no possibility of paying off personal and family pensions, this is now a significant step, and that is what you mentioned in your debate. At the same time, this bill raises the level of social security of those most sensitive groups most at risk of poverty. ... In your debate, you have referred to a series of measures that this government has made possible with the payment of Covid and the energy supplement, but the positive thing is that this new law will be passed, but very little has been mentioned by the national compensation for older people who certainly made significant progress for those who did not have and could not exercise the right to any pension. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119540	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk, that's correct. The fee, a national fee for older people, is a new institute in our legislation and it is it that protects people over 65 years of age, those who, of course, have more than 20 years of permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and have about 60 thousand. These are the most common women in rural areas that had no first education, and later they also had problems with transporting to their jobs and not this type of protection, surely that in such cases they would have an even greater risk of poverty, and this government has protected and helped such a person financially every month through this institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119541	Followed by a replica of the respected Kresimir Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119542	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I really must commend your debate. You have touched a series of actually benefits of this law and you have shown quite professionally what the aim of this debate is to make it more clear to that end-user that this law ultimately offers him, so I would ask you just a brief comment and an opinion actually on you which would be the biggest benefit to the end-user, this pensioner who has not yet had the opportunity to use these two or more pensions that you should, and now will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119543	Thank you very much, colleague Ackhar. So most often husband, I'm going to say from my point of view, so women who are left alone, whose spouse has passed away most often choose which is a more favourable pension. So they take or stay on their pension if they prefer it or take it from their spouses. It wasn't possible to combine each other. Now here is what I call on all of our pensioners to apply from 1.1. to be calculated as much as possible, whether it is preferable to stay with that old man or to take your pension with 27% of your family pension or to stay with your spouse alone as before. Of course, there is a limit that will be revised and seen every year. Now it's just over five thousand and 800 kuna, but surely in the coming periods there will be more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119544	Followed by a replica of a respected, pardoning the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119545	Well, at the risk of warning, I'm gonna take this opportunity just to say what's true. Therefore, it is not that the widow chooses, but that she receives a more favourable pension under official duty on the basis of a request. So, it's not that you can choose the pension that's more unfavourable to you, but it's in accordance with the regulations de facto you have the right to that pension that's more favourable to you because it says so in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119546	And who's going to pick a worse one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119547	Please, you can't answer You can't respond to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of a respected colleague. [[Attack of Juričev-Martinchev: Good.]] Your Honor, you yourself have announced a warning to yourself, and then so is that. You're getting a warning. Replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119548	Thank you very much. Comrade Martinchev, I also commend this bill of amendments and additions and your debate because I think it hit the point of what we want today, and that is to make it clear what it brings and to whom it brings benefits. We passed a time when only indexation was a big deal, and a paid pension as best as possible could have happened to the pensioners. Today it's a little bit different when we're talking about total pension growth over the past few years, plus additions, plus indexation. We come to ask questions on the side of the opposition how they'll find out on the phone, on television, that we're some fans. In fact, we don't want them as well as they say, but here we are playing a little bit of reform for brave people like this. But I only ask one question? If we work for the benefit of the pensioners and this law goes to them for the benefit or discussion of our side of the other, the opposition says that we don't work, that we boast about something that isn't like that and we don't know exactly how much retirement is going to grow to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119549	Thank you very much. A fellow Boric, so it's nice to hear. On behalf of the club, everyone said that they support the proposal, that they all raise their hands for everything that's better for the pensioners, and then here they problematize how the pensioner will get that notice and information. Here we are today inviting them all to submit their request. What my colleague Fabianic says is true, but I don't know which pensioner would choose a smaller, lower pension if she could already get higher. But you're right. So it's funny to listen to what's wrong and how bad it is, but that something at all bad is certain that there would be far more MPs on this side than there are now two, four, six.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119550	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119551	Thank you. Infringement of Article 238 future parliamentary representative, and the parliamentary representative is telling the truth, I will compare this with national compensation for the elderly, where it was planned according to your plans how well and targeted you planned 20,000 users of whom you now have 5800 users and national benefits for the elderly who you mentioned were well targeted by the most vulnerable group. How well she targeted it says the number of users themselves, and apparently means you need that suggestion anyway. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119552	You used the same thing as a replica, so you get a warning, too. What? Replica is a respected representative of Luka Brčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, it is clear that I welcome this bill of law that is actually intruding and we can say that this is a sort of pension reform. Keeping in mind the context of the time in which it happens, it means when we're getting more and more at global level, and even here, it's pouring out clearly and to the level of our country's negative news, negative information. And all of these threats that we have been burdened here for two, three years, and in this very context this one aid to one of the most sensitive groups, I would say to the population of our homeland is certainly for every praise, and I believe that this continuity of positivity to the very most socially sensitive groups will continue and that here will pass these threats, that the Croatian government will be able to continue this continuity even more successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119554	Thank you very much, dear colleague Brcic. So just like this time of crisis, this government has decided and secured itself, that is to say, in the coming years for the realization of all these proposed changes and additions to the billion and 217 million kuna in 2013. In the next 2024 billion and 470 million kuna, in 2025 an additional billion and 706 million kuna. That says enough what this government is doing and what it does to make pensioners the best possible position especially for those most vulnerable with the lowest pensions. And I have to correct my colleague, never before has the government handled a number of over 200,000 people who could claim a national fee, but up to 60,000 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119555	Next replica, respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119556	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. ... I think it'd be good... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think it would be good for you to respect all the remarks we make on this side of the assembly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When something is good, of course we'll commend and support, but there's always that but. Can you do something better, huh? Yeah, well, counting how many of us are in there is a little lame, isn't it? So you said it yourself, and the data says that actually the most vulnerable group of women are the oldest age, especially single households, so the risk of poverty is some here, 50 percent, 50%, right? With regard to the users of family pensions, 92.5% are women. So, the fact is that women have fewer pensions, they have a lot less salary, their shorter life span, something of course goes away and on maternity leave where they also don't get full pay, so these are the problems that exist before us. What the government will do in terms of strengthening equality between women and men, not only in terms of pension but also in working life. What are your information and suggestions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119557	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119558	Thank you very much, colleague. Well, as you said, women have a shorter working life, women have lower incomes, and they certainly have lower pensions with automation. That's what it stands for. The most common woman is the one who doesn't work, and that's why when we talked about national compensation for older people, we also talk about women mostly. The government takes care of that category, the women's category, and surely it will eventually come with new bill proposals where it will not forget that because, as I said, the national fee for older people was also targeted, most often for women. Here, we also see the lawyer's views on gender equality, which also welcomes this bill, because when it comes to family pensions, it's mostly the benefit of women because again I don't repeat myself for what reasons. I hope that in due course we will have new bill proposals to further protect women.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119559	Followed by an individual debate by respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119560	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. When we discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, we can talk about the part and the continuation of the pension reform initiated by this and the previous Government when 6 pension laws came into force in 2019 in order to achieve positive effects for the current and future pensioners. In the pension system of the Republic of Croatia at the end of June of this year, there were 1, 230,795 pensioners. It is a large system which is exposed and dependent on demographic changes, changes in the labour market and economic opportunities. In addition to increasing and ensuring the adequateness of pensions, the important element is to ensure the sustainability of the pension system which rests on employed insurance and pay-out workers providing funds for pension payments. Most European pension systems, including ours, have been based on intergenerational solidarity, and this has been so for over a hundred years. This means that while working out of their salaries, workers are financed by the pension system, i.e. the current pensioners. The current pensioners did not finance their own pension but financed the then-generation pensioners. In this context, the number of workers relative to the number of pensioners is extremely important, and for pensioners it is better to fund their pensions as many workers as possible. At the moment of the introduction of such a system of workers there were many, and the elderly were relatively few, so, for example, in the last 40 years alone, Croatia has significantly worsened its proportion of workers and pensioners. So in 1980, the pension of one pensioner was financed by four employed workers, the ratio was 4:1. For the next 10 years, until '90. The ratio is down to 3:1 so that during the Homeland War, after the Homeland War, that ratio would fall to 1.8. Since then, we have been skating towards an ever lower ratio, so Croatia touched the bottom of 2015 when only 1.1 workers worked on a pensioner. Since then, the situation has been slightly improved and at this point the proportion of workers and pensioners is 1,32:1. Such a ratio is one of the worse in the EU and lies in it the same good part of the clarification on why pensions are relatively low. The key priority of the government is to ensure the social security of all our fellow citizens, especially pensioners with the lowest pension incomes. Thus, in May 2020, a National Compensation Act was adopted for older persons who were first introduced into the Republic of Croatia for the first time by the Institute of National Compensation for the Elderly, who will receive about 6 thousand users this month. The Covid supplement was then paid for 710 thousand users during 2021, for which 463 million kuna was allocated. During May 2022, payment was made of one-time monetary income, so-called “the one-off payment”. an energy supplement that has been used to mitigate the effects of energy price increases. As regards today's proposals of the Pension Insurance Act, these are changes aimed at improving the situation and extending the material rights of pensioners. The increase in the pension factor for the calculation of family pensions, which will increase family pensions by 10%, will be achieved automatically and will be visible on pensioners' accounts in February 2023. It is also possible to use the part of the pension of the deceased spouse, extramarital partner with personal pension depending on what is more favourable and up to 5850 kn. They are also exempt from the family pensions used by children of the deceased insurance company so that those children have an equal standing because their pension is a maintenance income. Also get extra... foresees an additional gradual increase in the minimum pension of 3% since 1 January 2023, which will also be done automatically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also possible to work with the simultaneous payment of pensions to professional firefighters, active military personnel and police officers who were retired before 1999, can work part-time and receive a 100% pension or full-time pension of 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119561	We have a replica of the respected Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119562	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues. In your own debate, you said that these amendments and additions to the Pension System Act are, in fact, also a continuation of the pension reform that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has started and what is important to highlight are, among other things, focused on redefining the family pension model. And what really needs to be pointed out is that this bill for the first time allows the combined use of two personal and family pensions, with an emphasis on strengthening family pension, of course, using personal pensions. And it is important to point out that the amendments to this law will allow for an increase in the family's pension by 10% by almost half a million of our fellow citizens of old age, and the consequences will be, therefore, the mitigation of living standards due to the death of spouses and certainly reducing the risk of poverty. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119563	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119564	Thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic. Yes, you mentioned a good part of what the amendments in question and the additions to the Pension Insurance Act are definitely on the trail of the entire pension reforms that the previous and this government are predicting and will continue. These today are positive things for our pensioners in this case most for pensioners who have lower incomes as well as for the most likely to feel it will feel the persons widows or widowers who, after family life, remain in single households, and most of these certain fixed household or household costs remain the same and the pension is halved. In this way it will at least stop in some way, so it will allow the surviving member of the family to use up to 27% of the deceased partner's pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119565	Followed by a replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119566	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague. You were talking about the ratio of the number of workers and the number of pensioners, and we know that in 2015, he touched the bottom, that it was 1.14. Now the active employment policy measures have further improved this ratio and is now 1.33. If you believe that these measures will further improve this employment policy for the benefit of workers, it will also strengthen the pension system and increase pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119567	On the connection of the number of active insurance companies, i.e. employees and the number of pensioners, and of course, if that number is equal to what almost happened to us during some periods, it is not good, which means that one worker would support a pensioner and that system cannot function in the long term. So we have a worse demographic picture, the population is getting older in the last 40 years and lifespan has extended, there is less labour force, the contingent is less labour force, although in recent years, for the last year, two and an increase in the number of employees who are now around 600 and 40,000, so this ratio is now 1:32 and certainly by means of active policy measures and by strengthening interventions in the economy and by hiring as many workers as we have to work to correct that ratio.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119568	Followed by the replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119569	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues are social security and adequate pensions and material assistance to those with the lowest pensions. We know that the government's programme provided for these measures that we're adopting under this law. Today, we mention a lot of inequality in pensions between men and women, which is indeed so, but in the 2018 pension reform, a demographic measure has been introduced which is more precisely added to parents six months of employment per child to correct the injustice that comes due to the reduction of the pension base during the period of maternity leave, and we know that this leave is the most used by women. And equally, here I am going to return to the national pension that you mentioned aware that it is used by the most women in rural areas, regardless of whether that number is five or six thousand from the estimated perhaps 19 at the beginning. I think this figure is an important aid especially to women in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119570	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119571	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. Yes, this law that we are talking about today is certainly part of that pension reform that took place in 2019 and exactly one of the laws that was passed was for women who were on maternity leave allowed to use, adding six months of retirement time for each child who was born because when women go on maternity leave or maternity leave then they have a lower salary, and hence, the allocations for pension contributions are lower and when calculating pension they get a smaller pension, especially when it comes to an even larger number of children born and thus this has been avoided and women are added six months of training for each child born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119572	The next replica is the respected representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119573	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues in your debate, you also referred to the energy supplement for the pensioners that was intended to mitigate the consequences of the increase in energy prices. We all know that this kind of supplement our pensioners looked forward to and welcomed them and these revenues filled their home budgets, and it is important to say that most of the pensioners are happy and satisfied with this supplement. So what were the conditions and criteria for achieving this supplement or one-time cash aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119574	Thank you, colleague Zmaic. Here you are as the head of the municipality you are certainly in a position to talk to your fellow citizens and I am glad that this energy supplement has received positive effects between your and our fellow citizens. So the energy supplement was made a decision I think in May, the government of the Republic of Croatia was in order to prevent poverty and protect the standards of our pensioners made a decision on the payment of an energy supplement for pensioners whose pension was less than 4,100 kuna, but not all of them were paid the same, so for those who had at least pensions of up to 1,600 kuna, then it went in order for those who had from 1,600 to 2,100 kuna and for those who had three to 4,000 kuna payments were 400 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119575	We have a breach of the rules of procedure, dear Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119576	Everything is true, but we don't stick to the subject at least as far as the replica is concerned, so I'm looking for a warning for my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119577	And well, many don't stick... Well, let's not argue any further, okay, I won't give you a warning you have the right to your opinion and I think a lot of notice should be given then, but here we won't give you a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next replica of the esteemed Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119578	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to touch something that you said in your debate, and my colleague before me, it's about a mother's pension on a demographic scale that's in effect and that part that's considered discriminatory, so the women who were born to them by 2019 don't apply. So do you feel that the measure is discriminatory and, if so, is there any way to meet these women? Not through this law because it's not retrograde according to the constitution, but perhaps on a different principle to do the part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119579	Thank you, colleague Nemet. Yeah, I know what you mean, there was a public reaction that this measure was kind of discriminatory. I certainly won't judge it here, but there are our representatives of the ministry, so I suggest we take this into account in some future discussions, suggestions, so I certainly don't mind that something that is positive and that is for the benefit of all our fellow citizens to be and to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119580	Followed by a replica of respected representative Luke Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I think it is important to stress that, with these family pensions that we're talking about, they are allowed to work half the time. And here I know because I come from Split-Dalmatia County that a lot of them are engaged in tourism, we know that just in tourism is the chronic lack of labour. I'm interested in this because you're coming from Lika-Senj County and these previous programs that have been directed towards the pensioners as well as this one we're talking about now it means allowing work to half the time, do you have any idea how this reflects in your county or do you have maybe if you don't have information at least forecasts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119582	Thank you, colleague Brcic. Yes, I mentioned that as part of that pension reform, it has been envisaged and has been made possible since 2019. working in part-time while receiving a pension and a good part of our fellow citizens benefit. Today, here we are not leaving the topic, today's bill also provides for professional firefighters as well as active military personnel and police officers who were retired before 1999, so they can work part-time and receive 100% pensions or work full-time at 50%, which is certainly good and in the context of meeting labour market needs, but also improving the financial situation of people who are then retired.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119583	The replica of the respected representative Kresimir Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119584	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. Here I am at the end of your debate you have touched one topic and one more in a series of benefits that this law has been passed and my colleague Luka has recently been semi-limized, and I believe that in Velika Gorica my firefighters are very satisfied with the professional team that applies to them that we should further apostrophe it, and since you mentioned it before the end as I said that perhaps once again in more detail just for the sake of those who listen to this, we explain exactly what they are referring to and how they are equating to the past law that applied to soldiers and police officers precisely in those pension reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119585	Thank you, colleague Ackhar, that there are certain things that need to be further emphasized, which we have said many times today is important that information from this as well as from all other laws, but from this especially regarding each person comes to as many individuals as possible. Also, our firefighters and all others who are retired under special regulations and are now equating with the rest of the pensioners and will be able to work part-time and receive 100% pensions or will work for half-retirement in full-time. Everyone is also available to the Pension Insurance Office and that information on rights will be published in good time and is certainly in the interest of these people and employment and, as I have already said, improve their financial situation, but also contribute to the labour market with their skills and skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119586	Next is the individual debate of the respected Majde Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119587	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. What I must point out at the outset is that I am very glad that this debate has shown a high degree of consistency and consensus regarding the amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act which, in my opinion, marks a significant step and a courageous step forward, but also a reform step towards raising family pensions, but also the lowest pensions. As already pointed out several times, all family pensions will be automatically increased by 10%, which on average means about 250 kuna per month, and a new right is introduced, which is a combination of personal pensions with 27% of the deceased's family pension, which is a new right in the Croatian system and will actually increase the average of those pensions by an average of 510 kuna per month. The minimum pensions also increase by an additional 3% to 2025g. Now, how about a pensioner or a pensioner who's in his personal retirement who's watching this debate of ours, what do they really want to know? They want to know if they're entitled to this new bill on family retirement, what they're actually going to get is what the 27% of the family pension is and how they can simply calculate it, and how it's going to be true. It's very simple, taking the amount of the deceased's pension multiplys it by 0.77 and then multiplying it by 0.27 and really getting to the exact number in the lip. So if we talk about the deceased's pension of 3,000 that we multiply by that 0.77 factor we multiply by 0.27 then we get to that family pension part or what can be achieved by the one who is in his personal pension of 623 kuna and 70 lip per month for example. Now, I'm going to make a little joke about my personal account, and given the figures and how I'm doing the numbers, given that I made one lapus or gaff on Friday, so instead of a million, I'm saying a billion and I'm saying one zero instead of three zeros, and I apologize to all of you respected MPs and MPs for that. It's my gaff and my lapus, an unintentional mistake unconsciously. I know very well how many employees in the Republic of Croatia, the last data on 30.6. is a million 640 thousand and 770 workers, which is 2.8% more than last year and almost 45,000 employees more than last year. Compared to the table, it is 6.43% or 100,000 workers more than scheduled. Why am I saying that? That's why I'm saying it because pensions are kept and jobs and it's an extremely important indicator and it's important that pensions are co-ordinated by pensioners and workers. He is in Croatia today 1:1,32 and I think it is very important to mention. It is particularly important to point out that the largest increase in employees is precisely in the processing industry, and I think it is also very important data. In addition, there is also a measure to preserve jobs that has preserved 700,000 jobs and stood behind 120,000 employers for which about 13 billion kuna is secured in the net amount. In any case, all of these results of today's increase in the family's lowest pension, including a general indicator where we see that in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, all pensions grew by 20% and the lowest by more than 26%, all these indicators did not come in themselves, fell from Mars, are the result of very serious, committed and systematic work, making decisions to improve the position of Croatian pensioners and older people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119588	Time. Replica esteemed representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119589	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you were the secretary of state in the labour and pension system and I really have no doubt at any moment that you know very well what the number of employees in Croatia is, one is gaff, one is a lapus, and the other is real knowledge and real knowledge of the system. What I'm interested in, I'm interested in your opinion and your answer. Namely, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been in office since 2017. To date, special sensitivity has shown women, not only in terms of their protection against domestic violence, family legal protection, but also in general in terms of improving women's status in Croatian society. I am interested in how much in your opinion and how does the government of Andrej Plenkovic, through pension, but also other portfolios and other systems, improve the position of women, not only in employment but in their retirement?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119590	Thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic. I'm so glad you brought this up. So I have to go back to the 2018 pension reform. when the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic provided six months of training for all mothers and adoptive women, and especially for fathers, which ultimately led to mother or adoptive child on average to have a 2% higher pension per child. What we see from this perspective today is that this possibility and that benefit already uses a little less than 50,000 pensioners. It's the one thing that's done for women, I think it's very good. The second we will talk about after this debate, and it is the birth benefits that rise to 7.5 thousand kuna, so the other six months after the child is born, which greatly affects the status of the woman when she retires.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119591	Next replica, the respected Tomislav Okroš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119592	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Buric. How, in a simple and understandable way, can we calculate the future increase in family pension, of course, provided that the person is in his personal pension and wants to use 27% of the deceased spouse's pension?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119593	Thank you, comrade Okrosha. I hope this time I don't make any lapus, once again apologize to everyone for that mistake on Friday, it really wasn't intentional, we're talking about a million and 640 thousand and 770 workers. As far as this calculation is concerned, for example, if the widow is an old-age pension user of 3.040 kuna and if the deceased user of the pension had that pension of 3.301 kuna, then we multiply that pension by 0.77 and then multiply by 0.27, and we get to the amount of 686 kuna and 36 lip, which is actually part of the family pension, which will have the right of that lady from 1.1.2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119594	Next is the replica of the respected representatives of Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119595	Dear MPs, there is an expressed risk of poverty and social exclusion of persons over the age of 65 who make up a single-member household. According to DZS data, the rate of risk of poverty for this population category is steadily increasing and in 2020. It's over 52%. The additional factor that deepens the risk of poverty against women is the circumstance that the risk of poverty is generally for women who make up single-member households in 2020. exceeded 50%. Please, do you feel that these measures will affect the mitigation of the risk of poverty and social exclusion especially in relation to elderly women? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119596	Thank you, dear colleague Ban Vlahek, so I agree with you that women in one-member households are elderly at a special risk of poverty, and that is why this government has introduced the institute that many have only talked about before, and this government has made it a national compensation for elderly people over 65 who have not been able to have even the minimum conditions for retirement, so these 15 years have been introduced. So it's a 800 fee, today it's 820 kuna per month. And this family pension or redefining and increasing the family pension that affects in principle the majority of women 93% of the users are actually users of women, widows who will I'm sure they'll be more socially protected. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119597	Followed by the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119598	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm going to return to that replica I sent to the minister, but also what you said. So it's not exactly that simple to calculate for an average citizen, for an average citizen. First, the man must be well informed, right, so we said that there are a number of people living in nursing, single households who have no idea what kind of law is passed and who will be benefits. It's one thing to do with automatism 10% for a family pension, but the other thing is where they have to apply. The minister said that information would be done by the staff of the Pension Insurance Office. I've come across the information that 2,700 of them are, how the employees of the Pensions Office are going to reach those people who live out there without a phone, without a TV, without electricity. So how are you going to cover all these people who would have a more favourable solution, so this is not an automaticity that you should apply for, and they don't even know what this is about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119599	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. I will be very positive, HZMO is a centuries-old Croatian institution that has been dealing with challenges for centuries, solves them, and will know how to solve and inform the public about the increase in family pensions and the lowest pensions. I'm sure of it. HZMO has worked and worked for 100 years and will, we wish, do great things to him, implement all reforms, they were the implementing body clearly, they implemented the last pension reform of 2018. They're carrying out a national fee, they're carrying out children's allowances, they've spent a lot, a lot more challenges than what we're talking about right now. I'm sure they'll be very good at notifying the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119600	Followed by a replica of respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119601	We don't get into the gaffs when we're reading numbers, I know how to pick up dates, but when we talk about this data that you've been talking about, and the question is in that part that's about the club's name in the first debate, so when we're talking about this ratio between the workers and the pensioners whether they're involved and listed on both sides and the pensioners and those who work part-time who aren't, in some numbers there's about 20,000, so do we count them on both sides and those who work and those who take pensions or not? Here's what we're interested in, which we don't have any data on, obviously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119602	Thank you, dear colleague Fabianic. So, as for the relationship between pensioners and insurance workers, he is in continued mild growth with the tendency of further growth, we are talking about 1,32:1 pensioners. Just a few years ago, this relationship was 1:1,14 at the time of another government, and it is in fact the smallest coincidence in history, and as far as the persons involved in the insurance category are concerned, they are certainly not students, and all those who pay the pension contribution are involved. However, since I had the opportunity to hear that they were students today, I must correct that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119603	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119604	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Buric, in your debate and reply to the replica, you have tried to help our fellow citizens to see for themselves how they can calculate what amount I can expect from this family pension, however, both in the first and second cases you have talked about if a person is left alone, means about one family member, about a widower or widower. However, our citizens need to know that they will gain much more if it is a two-member or three-member family, or if a widower or widow stay with one or two or more children, so I would ask that you point out here once again and stress how much they can expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119605	Thank you, colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. So all family pensions will increase by an average of 10% and 250 kuna per month, respectively, and it will go through automation. A growing pension factor, for one family pensioner from 0.70 to 0.77, which is actually a 10% increase in the pension factor from 0.8 to 0.88, from 0.9 to 0, to 100 and 1, respectively, is true. Here, so much for my figure-finding. This, in any case, family pensions received by a person who is in retirement and who will require, or will make a request for 27% of the deceased spouse's pension on average will grow 510 kuna, and here, each calculation is quite specific, it is important that Underline the 5850 kuna limit. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119606	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Nadice Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119607	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Buric, here's everyone when the law is passed or something is being debated, someone is looking at the form, someone's content, and someone is looking at some laps, but I think it's the essence of this present law that the proposed amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act are sending a clear message that under the circumstances of the crisis, it is the government's priority to ensure social security for all our citizens, especially the pensioners with the lowest pension incomes and to reduce the risk of their poverty and social exclusion, so I ask you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119608	Thank you, colleague Dreven Buddinski. I agree with you that solidarity is extremely important and that it is very important to safeguard and continuously cherish social security, especially for our older citizens and pensioners. In that sense, I must stress that in one year, this government has paid two one-off fees. First, it was a Covid supplement, and the second one was an energy supplement, both of which amounted to up to 1200 kuna for persons who had a pension of less than 4 thousand kuna and that, as far as I know, received about 700 thousand pensioners, and the calculation, and the remaining energy supplement for those receiving both foreign and Croatian pensions follows in the 7th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119609	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119610	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, when we talk about numbers, there are laps that happen in an excuse and they are not intentional, and there are those who say them on purpose wrongly, such as one statistical office of a party Most who regularly pronounce wrong numbers and not a lapus. So they have a policy of wrong numbers that neither our Bureau of Statistics nor Eurostat has, just them. And of course, those are policies... But okay, let me skip that, so we're going to retire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say, they calculate a pension by that formula that you'd be less than what you said, 100% because it's politics and we're talking about what the pensioners know or want to know or know for sure, regardless of what counterpart Maric thinks they're uninformed, they're formed, they certainly know how to get that information for them, and let's not worry about it. Whether what we offer today, but the opposition will certainly support it because it will surely support it is what goes for them or to harm them so that these pensions will rise or not, they know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119611	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119612	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. I agree with you on the bridge, but we are here to have a very responsible relationship with all social groups, especially vulnerable groups such as older people and pensioners. And I personally hold that we are obliged to tell the truth when we talk about pensioners in a much clearer way than usual. In a much, much clearer way to understand everything you know, which is that this change in the law will raise family pensions for an average of 250 kuna per month, and if the pensioner has a combined pension, his + 27% family pension, then that pension will grow on average 510 kuna per month. Each individual calculation is, of course, individual and there will help the dear will of HZMO and Croatia respectively. Pension Insurance and their employees. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119613	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119614	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministry staff, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. We have before us amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, extremely important amendments and additions to the law by more than a million and 230 thousand of our pensioners, and in particular that will be covered by these amendments and additions to the law will directly concern increasing the material revenues by more than half a million of our pensioners. These days through and through the work of the parent board and through meetings and all these statements from the minister and all these presentations of views and individual debates we have already had many opportunities to hear, and here in my individual debate I will touch again the figures that are crucial. I consider it important to point out in particular several key changes and additions to this Pension Insurance Act, which is that family pensions will increase on average by more than 10% by more than 13,000 pensioners, or on average by around 250 kuna and for that the government will allocate an additional 365 million kuna. It is also possible to use part of a family pension with the retention of a personal pension in the event of the death of a spouse, that is one novelty and for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will from 1.1.2023.g. further separate 750 million kuna. The amendments to the law also further increase the minimum pensions since 1 January '23. 1.5% and 1 January 2025 for an additional 1.5% for which the government will allocate an additional 100 million kuna. In addition, it is excluded from the family pension that the children of the deceased are benefiting from for the sake of the equal status of children whose family pension is maintenance income. Just as my colleagues pointed out before me, it is according to all our valuable and dear firefighters that we put them in the same status as the others have. In addition to all the above elements, the overall effects of these amendments and the addition of the law to the pension system will be an additional 1.2 billion kuna in 2023. If we know that the government spends 48 billion kuna a year, then we know that this is not a meaningless amount. From the amendments and the addition of the law, we clearly see that the government of the Republic of Croatia has the sustainability of the pension system, with an increase in the adequateness of pensions, one of the primary objectives and key priorities, as stated in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2024 programme, which raises the standard of living by more than 1.23 million of our pensioners. I would like to point out that in Croatia over the past years the proportion of pensioners and workers who have now risen to 1:1.332 specifically 1.64 million employees compared to 1.23 million pensioners has been improved. If we know it's still 2015. This ratio crushed and touched the bottom of 1.14 is definitely progressing. This progress has not come in itself, but it is mostly the result of quality work by both the Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also from active employment policy measures for which we allocate a billion kuna annually and we have ensured the survival of 700,000 jobs. The amendment and addition of the Pension Insurance Act is a courageous step, especially within this time of uncertainty and instability in which we live. This government has been since 2016. increase pensions by more than 20% and those by more than 26%. These data relate not only to harmonisation but also to the reflective pension reforms of 2018. I welcome the further implementation of the reform in favour of the current and future pensioners. These amendments and additions to the law also implement measures from the NPOO which are equally important for the reference given the EU funds at our disposal. In this respect, the special priority is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion of family and lowest pension users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119615	We have replicas, the first respected representative of Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119616	Thank you. Dear counterpart Okroša, you mentioned the active employment policy measures for which about a billion kuna is allocated annually, and you also particularly stressed the government's measure when preserving jobs, where the government stood bravely and boldly behind all workers and employers, and in effect preserved 700,000 jobs in the midst of the covid crisis. And since pensions, pension system, pension system stability and employment and the number of workers, here I am asking you to comment on actually positive trends that have been particularly visible in the last six years where this number of employees is, in fact, very much affecting the stability of the pension system, especially given the system of generation solidarity. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119617	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119618	Thank you, colleague Buric. As a member and younger generation of politicians, I am very interested in all the employment measures and measures of active employment policy, as the government said, provided a billion kuna each year, thus providing 700,000 jobs. What I would say is that jobs are kept on pensions, the economy, and the entire pension system, and that is why it is important to mention and remind that we who are working today that 15% of our salaries are allocated to the first pension column, and that these funds are provided to my grandparents and your father today. Therefore, it is a solidarity system and only by preserving jobs, improving and investing in active employment policy measures that improve the current pension system, but also the one in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119619	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119620	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Okroša, here in your presentation, you mentioned the most important newspaper that today's bill of law brings. This is an increase in the pension factor for the calculation of family pensions by 10% and at the same time an additional increase in the lowest pension of 3%, with one and a half percent since January 2023 and one and a half percent in 2025, and these are the things that will be achieved automatically. However, there is also the possibility of using part of the deceased spouse’s family pension which will not be automatically achieved but will have to be submitted. I believe that you, as head of the Dubrava municipality, meet with your fellow citizens on a daily basis and that they will welcome these changes to the law in question. It is also able to disseminate information on the laws and rights and opportunities they can use, so you feel that it is necessary to further inform all of our citizens about the rights that they can achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119621	Thank you, colleague Pocrnic-Radosevic. Yes, of course, and as chief, I believe that our residents of the third life age our pensioners are extremely important, as well as the number of residents of 5,000 people in my municipality more than 1200, and I am in daily contact with them, so I will certainly make sure that through their retirement associations and through direct conversations, meetings I believe that they are also monitoring the work of the Croatian Assembly and through small screens and social networks, that we all have to work together because we are all complex, most of us at least that this is a great step, that this is an important material improvement in the material rights of our pensioners. And I think we should all work to promote, and of course we'll explain in a media way how we can achieve the right to what we don't have automaticism. I think the pensioners are pretty informed about their rights and they won't stay suspended.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119622	The next replica honours Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119623	Thank you. It is evident from your debate that the current Government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the important strategic goals and priorities of the sustainability of the pension system, an increase in pensions, as well as an increase in the standard of living for more than 1.23 million of our pensioners. Do you know how over the past few years the number of employees has changed over the number of pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119624	Thank you, colleague Zmaic. Yes, for years, the number of workers and pensioners fell, or the proportion of workers and pensioners decreased. In 2015, as I said, the number reached the bottom and amounted to 1.14 workers per pensioner. Today is the number 1.32. We have a record employment of 1.64 million people. The record employment back over 20 years, and as I said, pensions have increased by more than 20% since 2016 without these amendments and additions to the law, so I think that since these amendments and amendments to the law concern more than half a million of our pensioners, which is almost 40% of all pensioners, I think that after the implementation of these amendments and the addition of the laws and pensions will increase by these amounts that we have said, and thus the total pensions will significantly improve, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119625	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119626	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Okrosa, find fellow citizens living in single households they are most at risk. I have to say since morning, because it probably doesn't stop the message from our pensioners who welcome what they heard from the minister this morning, as well as from our discussions. They welcome these amendments to the law, and what they still write to me I want to do and then share with you is that it is important to point out that family pensions will continue to grow by harmonising twice a year. So it's not the only increase that's going to happen. Here's all I wanted was one statement, so so can you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119627	Thank you, comrade Grba-Bujevic. Yeah, the truth is, it's gonna keep synchronising. So what we said about increasing these pensions is not only a reflection of that harmonisation, but also of the overall pension reforms, so here for all pensioners, of course, with the harmonisation that is determined, which is being implemented twice a year to their increase in their pensions, these amendments and the additions of the law will be tied together. So they're going to go at each other and they can be carefree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119628	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Nadice Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119629	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Okroš, enabling the use of personal pensions at the same time and part of the family pension is a significant step in the Croatian pension system, because it has not been possible so far and I think it should really be repeated, that it is a big and good part and a big segment of this law. Only one pension can be used by law under the applicable law can be used by only one pension that is more favourable. This measure will mitigate the consequences of revenue cuts, covering more than 155,000 users and will provide 746 million kuna for 2023. What do these measures mean for our pensioners?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119630	Thank you, colleague Dreven Buddinski. Yeah, it's big numbers, the number of people we're going to cover and reach with these changes and the additions to the law. 750 million kuna will now be allocated annually for the use of part of the family pension with the retention of the personal pension in the event of the death of the spouse. It's this one novelty up to the maximum of 27% as we had the opportunity to hear in detail in the previous individual debate and the calculation itself that I'm not repeating it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119631	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Jura Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119632	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Director, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. Here's basically from 9.30 this morning we're discussing amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and I can really say that I'm too satisfied with the debate all day long until now. Apparently, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and our Ministry of Labour and Pensions, family and social policy have brought before our Parliament one of the quality and good amendments to the law, in this case the Pension Insurance Act. Since this morning we have heard the reasoning of the Law, we have heard what is good, we have heard constructive proposals that could be improved, and we have heard very, very little criticism. The criticisms that were and were mostly not about the core and the changes that are on the wallpaper today, but they were mostly about something else that we know might need to be fixed, but they don't change by this Act or they're a complete failure, just like that. So today, during our debate, we heard the exact number, that Croatian has record employment, i.e. that he has 1,640 770 employees and that's the record in the last 20 years. Now, all these employees of a million and 640 thousand, I think, in fact, I am deeply convinced, especially those who have just begun their working life, that they are very, very little thinking and talking about amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. People started working, people started making money, they retired something far away, let there something to get from doing their work and these payments they pay with every one of their salaries. Some are even thinking why we're paying for it now, you give it to us now, and we'll manage it better and everything else. And that, I'm sure, only those who are at the end of their working days are thinking a little bit about how much retirement they will have, when they're paid to leave, whether they're waiting for a full age or an early age or something else. But those who are very, very interested in this topic of ours today, here it is, this million 230 thousand pensioners. The millions and 230 thousand pensioners today are.../incomprehensible/... basically, if we look at our total population of our Croatian population is 32%, a significant figure. Now, out of this million 230 thousand we've heard there are 287 thousand pensioners who use the lowest pension, there are 13,000 who use a family pension and then we've heard another significant piece of information, that of those 126 thousand who use a family pension, even 80,000 use a family pension without having one day a job internship. We've heard so much that there's a special category of 155,000 pensioners who use so-called. single retirement. It's where a married couple used to be and now they're a widower or widower and they're only using one pension, and they've been paying their entire working life into a pension system and they've stayed on one pension. I think they are extremely interested in these amendments and supplementing the Pension System Act, and also, that they have followed all these other changes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made for them, and they have listened to the changes from 2019 when there were 6 amendments to the pension law and I believe that they have felt that, despite all this, the lowest pensions, from October 2016 to today, have increased by 26%, and I believe that they have felt that the average pensions from October 2016 to today have increased by 20% and that the triba is mentioned, that now, we have heard that data, the average pension with 40 years of training in Croatia is 5000 kuna. We also heard that the average family pension is less than 2500 kuna. Amendments and additions to this Act are now changing and contributing to some balance, essentially correcting some injustices, so we have an increase in family pensions by 10%, we have the possibility of using part of the pension of the deceased spouse for the amount of the 27% share of the family pension, until we also have an exemption from family pensions used by children of the deceased insurance company and an additional, gradual increase in the lowest pension of 3%. At the same time, it will also enable firefighters to work up to half full-time while paying an old pension of 100%. These are all features of good law and good changes to the law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119633	Replica, a respected representative of Nikolina Baradić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119634	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, dear colleague Brkan. Here, you mentioned in your discussion that the government will continue to take care of pensioners, their health care, social care in all parts of the Republic, and it is the duty of all of us to provide them with a better quality of life. Here, since you're a man from the field, you've been mayor of Makarska, if you think all pensioners will have available information in time, here's how we've already heard that some colleagues are skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119635	I believe as I was saying at the outset, who cares about this, which is this million and 230 thousand pensioners, especially there are those who fall into these pensions below 4 thousand kuna and below average, they're very interested, they'll know every detail of this law. I believe it will be presented further from the Ministry itself, and otherwise, the job of all of us is to explain to them what their rights and obligations are. I also believe that, as in the debate, we said, there are no wrong sides to this law. If there's anything good, I believe you'll hear it. And they'll feel, you've seen that a lot of things from the 1st month starts with automation, you just need to maybe mention it and maybe further explain that the right is achieved at the request of users with an extended deadline of one year for this part of the family... which can be inherited from the deceased spouse at 27%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119636	The next replica honours Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119637	Thank you. Dear colleague Brkan. You yourself touched on the topics of financial literacy, and I'm glad you mentioned it, because more than 90% of new employees don't choose a fund or a category or portfolio of that fund, and, b or c, the conclusion is that financial literacy really needs to be raised. In this sense, I know that a lot of work is done by REGOS and HGK and pension funds which have also a legal obligation in terms of raising financial literacy, which I want to stress at this time are pension information centres which are open in Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek and Split in the term of office of this Government and which actually serve as information services for citizens, which are students, employees, unemployed, pensioners, etc., on the Croatian pension system and pension system related to the achievement, not just pensions from generational solidarity or generational solidarity systems. individual capitalised savings. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119638	You haven't gone too far. It was an abuse. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119639	The peace information systems are definitely a good thing. As you said, they can give me advice and plan their pension from students, from who's not employed, who's employed and who's up to the pensioners. That's definitely a good thing. But I still argue, the smaller the problem is that a million 640 thousand employees, whether to discuss amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, is more important that a million 230 pensioners know what their rights are and to feel a change in their own favor on their bank or current account. Also, I believe that our pensioners were also able to appreciate the Covid supplement and the energy supplement that enabled this government of ours because as we can see, we had around Covid the addition of 710 thousand users and the energy of 720 thousand users. The story was public, the story was on the air, we talked here in HS about it, and they ultimately benefited from these measures of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119640	Next replica, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119641	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Brkan, you spoke of record employment. We really can't talk about pensions if we don't talk about employment and employees. Employees are entitled to their pension while those who were not employed have the right to a family pension and are the only ones and others this Law brings, something, some more, and some far more than they had before. Do you think we could talk about this today if there were no government measures to preserve jobs in which more than 12 billion kunas were invested and about 800,000 workers were rescued and nearly 126 thousand employers were saved. That, too, we did not have the government's active employment policy measures in which it was invested from October 2016 until the end of '21. About six billion kuna for an active employment policy. Could we speak with this law and all that will be given to our pensioners?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119642	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Just like you, you've got the exact exact data. The moment the world was faced with a major crisis, a pandemic of the coronaryvirus, when the world was in lockdown, the government of the Republic of Croatia took a smart measure and withdrew that measure to save and preserve jobs. Total cost of the crown, as you heard, the Republic of Croatia cost 44 billion kuna. Much of it went right to the job rescue measure and then saved jobs, those jobs remained preserved, those people stayed in their jobs and today's businesses, brought and paid their contributions to make these millions of 230 inhabitants also benefit from it and that's a big thing made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe the people will appreciate it. Only one data, only the city of Split, 32,000 people used the measure to save jobs and it cost the government 650 million kuna. It's a direct one specific piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119643	Next replica, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119644	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Brkan. The changes are, as you said, good and quality and refer to half a million pensioners, who will certainly make it possible to do better tomorrow. The government has thus shown that this age of overlapping crises is also highly sensitive to those who are most sensitive. With, today, the opposition has pointed out several times that inflation will eat this supplement in the coming period. Do you expect, I expect, and do you expect, if necessary, that the government will intervene, as Covid intervened with the add-on, as she intervened with the energy supplement, whenever it was needed for the most endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119645	I believe that because the government of the Republic of Croatia feels the needs of its people and has always reacted in good time, and on the other hand has not lost what the focus is, that it is responsible for the money of all of us citizens. In addition, this measure, this amendment of the law, it also belongs to one of the measures that we have committed, which come from the measures of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, is an increase in the adequateness of pensions through the continuation of pension reform. Responsibly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the budget and, therefore, we have ensured with this measure that the money that, 700 million euros we received in the first tranche is guaranteed in the second tranche. So as we take responsibility for these obligations, we will be so responsible for our citizens. At the moment of trouble, the government will react and make life easier for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119646	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119647	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, representative of the Ministry. I will repeat what I said on the Labour Committee, so it is time to finally take over what the old Europe, so civilised Europe has always had, and this is that, with the personal pension of the deceased spouse, it is also a part of the family pension. The criteria are different everywhere in Europe, and so is what we are introducing today. However, it would be good for people to tell what is real. So what I can really expect, and what I can really expect, is that if we get too high right now, that good move in the debate, then people will be disappointed in you later, so it can be counterproductive to you. That's what I'm warning you. So when we talk about family pensions, then I see that in the text itself we talk about often, so it's about early retirement, old age, disability pension, it's enough that we don't technically correct it on a personal pension because these are all personal pensions, it would be much more practical and the text would be shorter. Now, as far as the age limit is concerned, it should be said that, therefore, it is not that all widows will receive this family pension of those who have kept their own. They need to be told it's only when you're 65 years old. Why, in 65, when women are now going to retirement at 63, and the next at 63 and 3 months and so until 1.1, 2030. So, here, my proposal is very simple for the proposer, not to write for 65 years because it applies to men, but to the age limit for retirement. It's very simple. I don't know if we're going to lose a few hundred thousand kunas, very frankly because this isn't about some big money. Now, I have no stimulation, no data, I would even like to be in a task force that will contribute to a better pension reform than it is now. I'm glad, I'm glad there's one thing, because this part of the story that you can have with your personal pension is family, you see, it was the Restort Coalition program, it's not even in the HDZ election programme, it's not even in the government programme, we have this national.../incomprehensible/... but there's no copyright here, which is good, but it can be better because when we say, for example. We're talking about Slovenians who have it, who have it 15%, but when they were 58 years old, not with 65. So it may be burdening their budget as much as it would burden ours, but the fact is that we're going into something unknown, as much as we're dealing with billions and some numbers, it's still unknown to us that by application, which will have a financial effect, and I agree that what we're going to say is responsible. So all I'm talking about is family pensions. And it can be further separated, but we must be aware of one thing. That when it can devour the pension system in the part where the payment of the contribution is, just by extending the rights in the way we extend it and that's the fact that the system of generation solidarity is the payment of today's worker to today's pensioner. The principle and common sense would say that if I'm retired, I'm no longer able to work and that man needs to be paid his pension, first of all. We can extend the right in a way to allow the pensioner, so that the pensioner works part-time and that's fine, but at that point we're biting the system of generation solidarity and then it's perfectly natural that we have to give out the budget the rest of the money we need for retirement. A very good example has come along. Let's just say, we got the terms for early retirement, I retire, I set up my employer the same salary I have today, I'm just going to show that I have half my time, and I'm still going to take the money that you're going to pay me for my pension, and I'm going to do, I'll just write that part-time. [[Intruder: Time.]] Dangerous, dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119648	Replica, the esteemed Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119649	Your Honor. I'm going to look back a little bit on the replica of a colleague from HDZ, she unfortunately went out, I didn't get to pick up the phone anymore because I didn't want to raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. In this way, we have here open pages of the State Statistics Institute, where it says that in March 2022 there were total employees in the Republic of Croatia about a million 556 thousand, of course now it has grown and we are satisfied that it has grown, it would be better if it were 2 million, however, not right now. And then down in the text, it goes on to say what the source of the data is. And then that data source says that the data is collected from a form that the JOPPD form that's being handed over to the IRS. That's what I'm telling you because it was claimed just now that there were no students in there, and then we go to the student center pages where it says nice like this. This is how, during the procedure, one date, a bank order is given to pay contributions and taxes and taxes and net receipts to students on current or jury accounts and a JOPPD form is given in Tax administration to be followed [[Intruder: Time.]] It sums up the courtships together with everything else. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119650	Here from your replica I could only conclude one thing, which is that in that ratio the pensioner and the employee have students who count themselves as employees, but also that those who work part-time, are listed among the pensioners and among the employees. I don't know how good it is, I think it would be a good thing, to read all the same numbers so that we can make quality decisions when we talk about the pension system, the pension system is extremely vulnerable and we have to be extremely careful about what we do because for every decision it has and let's say a little bit of the sound of cheap politics it will eventually come from a generational solidarity system that will have to come from the budget. But that's not a charity, because that budget full of Croatian citizens is just a question of how we're all going to decide to deploy it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119651	Next replica, respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119652	An esteemed colleague so definitely as you pointed out these changes and supplements have certain or certain advantages and sure that any increase in pensions should be welcomed. However, we should also talk about the fact that more than 400,000 of our pensioners receive an amount below the poverty line and that they should move forward at an accelerated pace so that these pensioners cross that poverty line, that is, the income we have. But we also heard from this side often boast that we have the highest number of employees ever in the last 20 years. However, it should also be said that regardless of the maximum number of employees in the last 20 years, we have only 1.28 pensioners and this system of intergenerational solidarity will be questioned very quickly if it is not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119653	Well, that's what I warned you about, and the fact is that you're very good at pointing out these 400,000 that can't survive with their pension, but after that there are additions that should be related to their residence and to the pension that they're calculating and that they should very much coordinate should go into social action. They must therefore go from one other fund, i.e. another source of funds, and not from a Generational solidarity system, especially since it would then be demotive if that was not the case, and in particular taking into account the fact that this Assembly, or this State, has decided to account for pensions, so that it is accounted for by a contributive system, which means that contributions are made to each working year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119654	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, everyone. What is already mentioned in the discussion on behalf of the SDP club is that we are ready to support these legislative changes, although it is certain that by the second reading we will have some suggestions, remarks and the desire to make some things even more different and better than they are in this proposal itself. But what is certainly important to stress that this proposal is a good and correct step, to show that there is clearly a will to raise the pension standard. The only thing that leaves us a little bitter taste in our mouth is that a colleague of Hrelja was elected to the Parliament from our list and we are sorry that it turns out that only through the struggle through the ruling majority can there be clear proposals like this that then come to terms so that they can be adopted unanimously. Nothing would have changed, and I think it would have meant a lot for the development of democracy in Croatia if this proposal had been accepted when it was prepared and proposed in several phases and in several situations in several recent years and by the opposition. Well, we can't cry over spilled milk now. What is definitely is that we are correcting a single injustice that has failed all of us in the last changes where we are firefighters and firefighters, as such, in an unequal position in relation to the police and the military, and we know how much these three systems mean to us from the aspect of both national security and the security of our citizens and their property, and they are simply in some lapus that has promoted everyone that they were then firefighters did not get their status as police and military even though they were supposed to have these legal changes, and this is correcting it. Of course none of us can say that he is willing to be against these changes, because he will also help those who have the lowest pensions, finally define some things concerning family pensions, finally create a more complete framework that we want to do in the future with our people's pensions and with the pension system, and that is something that we absolutely welcome and that we are absolutely willing to support. But what remains to be pointed out again and today has been brought through several debates is only one question, but the question is not held in its hands by the resolution minister from this field, but is held by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy himself, and the Prime Minister himself is that all this will be enough for what is happening not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world. Because it is certain that, in the autumn and winter, there will be new price shocks and that the retirement population will, of course, be with the people who are on the minimal or no god, do not work to find the most at the impact of these amplitudes that are already coming today and are here today among us. So we appeal once again that we are not always waiting for everything that comes from Brussels, but to simply take into account that we have an eruption in the state budget from charging VAT, that we have obviously a lot of economic systems from telecoms, the banking sector, the energy sector that lives very well at the expense of the citizens of this country, which pay their profits and dividends abroad, and that we have even more room for manoeuvre where with slightly different tax policies, with more progressive taxes, with stronger taxation of those who are rich and who have luxury, we can create even stronger and even better foundations to build this country and society, in the winter when this spiral continues in which obviously the world has fallen into even more maneuvering space so that we can show that we are ready to protect the pension standard, that we have not forgotten the people who created and built this country and simply in this way we can be one society of solidarity, which has no more reason for having to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119656	We have a replica of the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119657	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. We welcome these changes, but we must point out that the rate of risk of elderly people's poverty in the Republic of Croatia is significantly higher than that in the EU. While in 2019, for people over 65 years of age, the risk of poverty was 30.1% in the EU, the average was 16.1%). We are talking about pension reforms here, but we are witnessing that certain categories, i.e. users, are being included in a partial way, and neither are the specific problems of these users being addressed, nor are the overall pension system being considered. So we had on the last changes in 2019 the introduction of maternal supplements for one child per six months which actually started from 2019. Now, these changes did not offer any kind of protection mechanism precisely for past users, or users not covered by that amendment. As you're commenting, you said there was a change there for those users as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119658	So there is certainly more space there, but there is too little time and we would open up quite a deep discussion because in the interpretations of certain decisions, the provisions and plans could be very easy to find in the conflict with how we interpret something in the Croatian Parliament either from the corner of the government or from the corner of the opposition, and how then we have a lot of the French example being interpreted in the Zagreb Assembly, only there are little divided roles of who is the authority, who is the opposition. But it would be an interesting conclusion that certain comments are falling and that certain cases are being considered. What you said in your own question is the fact that the pension system needs a much deeper reform and a much deeper change. We are all aware that it has not been sustainable for 30 years, it is a similar situation with the health system, but for that it can definitely be a good start, but it should never be the end of our wishes and efforts to make a better and more sustainable pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119659	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119660	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Our pension system has long been unsustainable. They brought out colleagues before me how many employees we have in relation to the number of pensioners. These are figures that are simply not sustainable in the long term but are now. We know that fiscal burden is extremely strong. Half the amount necessary for pensions is collected from the contribution, the other half is going from the budget and in the long term it will simply be difficult to be sustainable. It is clear to all of us, and that is where we come to what my colleague Jaksic was talking about before me, and that is that we are really mature for a pension reform. I'm sorry we didn't take advantage of those good years when the macroeconomic situation around the world, so the EU was far better than it is now. We've been in some kind of crisis for two years now that we can't see the end. But it's getting more and more complicated and the question is how much we're going to be able to change things now. There is always a question of that second pillar, the fees paid to those who manage societies, which manage these funds, the basis which is not only the profits they make, but also the total amount of the compensation is quite large. And that's what the problems we need to talk about and which we need to constantly point to because they concern a group that is extremely socially endangered. We have over 400,000 pensioners who have a pension of less than 2700 kuna and we generally have an increasing share of residents who are over 65 years old. So according to the last census, their share is if we look around the counties anywhere more than 20% with the trend of growth, which means that if we think through a future because these are trends across the EU, our society is getting older and older. The share of the older population is growing and higher, and it will not shrink. What I started out with when I asked for a break, and I'm going to do it one more time are two elements that are extremely important that aren't talked about enough. One is women’s pensions, i.e. pensioners, who are significantly less due to numerous reasons than to be interrupted during their working life, to their salaries than their male colleagues’ salaries in the same workplace. All this is finally accumulated and eventually won with smaller pensions than men have. So these changes and are complemented in principle are good, because women will still get some positive financial shifts for them, but the question of course is whether they are enough and then we come back to these over 400,000 pensioners, pensioners who have really very, very small, not to say miserable pensions that are again given the number of pensioners a great burden on the state budget. So gender inequality is this one element that's really not talked about much, and all the data and all the research shows that it's very much expressed not only in our case, it's not just our specific subject. It is present in other countries. What is also important for us to point out is the territorial inequality and the level of pensions that are not the same in all parts and it stems from this regional inequality in terms of economic development, in terms of wages. We all know that the average salary in Zagreb, Osijek, Požega and Dalmatia is simply not the same. And you end up with this. These are the same things that we need to take care of because the cost of life is growing and growing far more than what it means in real terms not only to grow pensions but also to pay and this inflation that is already two-digit will open up a whole series of new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119661	We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of the Marine Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119662	Thank you very much. So, the proposed increase in pensions that we are discussing today and that we all welcomed because we know how much each pensioner means and the least increase, so this increase will take place from 1.1.2023. Also, as of 1 January 2023, the euro has become a legal means of payment in the Republic of Croatia, so today we should have talked about the increase not of 30 or 250 kuna but of an increase of 3 or 33 euros. And when we look at it on that side, it's even clearer that this is not exactly what we're going to do to reduce the risk of poverty because life is expensive, regardless of the currency, especially because we know that autumn brings a rise in both the overhead and the general cost of living. So it's also clear that from 1.1.'23. 2000 kuna pension on the account will be visible as a amount of 266 euros or that of 1,100 kuna as an amount of 145 euros. You mentioned The sustainability of the pension system is as much as possible for the sustainability of normal and dignified life with these amounts. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119663	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119664	Thank you, my dear colleague, Vazak Bilić, for your replica of the question which is also the answer. So living these incomes in Croatia is not possible. But I will remind you that Croatia by the number of receipts and by the amount of credits coming from abroad at the very top of the EU, which means that the parents stayed here, the children went out, helping them by sending them certain amounts. With 2,300, with 2,700 kuna, it's impossible to live, we all know, it's not enough to direct and with you watching some HZMO statistics when we say that over 400,000 pensioners have a pension of less than 2,700 kuna, that doesn't mean that they all have a pension of 2,700 kuna. You have categories of 500 kuna and then up to 1,000 kuna, etc., these are truly symbolic amounts that must probably be combined with some other sources of income so that these people can survive the month at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119665	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119666	Dear MPs, your debate is an excellent part of the presentation of most opposition clubs. We all agreed that the first step was great, that we were going well, the question is how far we're going to go, but I think we're going to have a big problem in the fall. So the law goes into effect in 1.1 next year, now we have a problem with the pensioners. We have the poverty of 400,000 pensioners who can't make ends meet, and in the fall when what's already announced by both the prime minister and the government and our economists and analysts, I think we'll have an even bigger problem. Question to you, to you, what do you think should be the first step after this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119667	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic, with these changes and additions, we are actually entering a family of European states that has already solved this. So we are only implementing in some way now in our system certain rules, normatives that other European countries have long ago in this or that scale or amount. Is this enough? Definitely not. The peace in Croatia is small, this will, this is a positive shift and I think we will all support it but only as a first step in further harmonisation of pensions because if you look at the State Statistics Institute and their data, then we do not follow growth, our salaries and pensions do not follow price increases and we are already making less real money because of inflation. What should be done more, that was your question. Definitely a new package of measures to be taken to help the most socially vulnerable groups, which should have entered as early as 1.9, at the latest 1.10.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119668	Followed by the replica of the esteemed representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119669	Dear fellow Vesna, I understand very well what you're about to say, but I appeal to you to view this as a pension insurance system because from the lowest pensions, the only contributions are over the years. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. It has been said here that the state is responsible for 80% of such low, low payments. Don't think this is our exclusive. This also gives Germany a pension of up to 1,250 euros so that people can retain purchasing power and pay apartments because otherwise these apartments will be empty. So it's all closed, it's all closed circle. So, what I'm saying is that we have opportunities as a social state to upgrade on pension, to a pension system protection against poverty, but pension insurance has its limits. And we have to keep a part of justice that the one who paid more [[Intruder: Time.]] And he gets more. [[Intruder: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119670	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119671	Thank you, colleague Hrelja, as I said, so we're about to enter a country club that's already solved this a long time ago and I don't know why you think I think this is some kind of exclusive, it's not like there's actually this one we're in line with other European countries, and we all point that out as an invitation. Of course, the problems that exist today did not occur overnight. They've been cumulating for years. You remember as well as I did in the '90s, the extra labor force was dealt with with with by early retirement or some kind of retirement on care already, women were already at 40 years of care and then this relatively fast retirement, which means that you and I would have been retired a long time ago and enjoyed the fruits of our work but here you see how that age-old line looks like we're not going to retire much longer, so at least I don't know about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119672	Next replica, respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119673	Dear colleagues, you mentioned that for several years we have been living in crises like this or those that are either getting up or down. Now I'm asking you as an economist, and maybe the crisis that started with Covid pandemic now comes with inflation, some say it's safe that the recession is coming and it wasn't and it's this great opportunity to make an inventory in some things, draw a line and make clearer reform packages so that tomorrow and when the crisis stops, they're more ready and more resistant to everything that's waiting for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119674	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119675	Thank you, dear colleague Jaksic, every crisis is an opportunity. Of course, that's where I agree with you. Recessions are inevitable and here I read the article the other day by our well-known economist Zeljko Lovrinčević who says they are also good to get a little windy system, but also let's be aware as long as there is money not to be reformed because the reforms are painful and you see it has gone a little bit, Minister Beros as soon as a couple of signs have come out they immediately came out one, the other, the third, all shout don't touch this, don't touch that. So the rights when they start to cut, everyone complains, and so do reforms as long as there is money, the holes will be patched up, and here we see that it comes from the EU over 6 billion, 6.8 billion euros through funds, so the national plan so that I don't expect the reforms regardless of the recession with or without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119676	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119677	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here today we heard a whole series of debates, I don't think any club was against this reform. Everyone said they were for it, but almost all of them had one, but we each have some explanation for why that one was and that it wasn't good. We had quite a heated discussion on the board yesterday and I can say a healthy debate involving the minister and actually because we asked him to answer our questions and I think we got all the answers. And what she said to her colleague Vucilović, she is, and there she is, I think we need it in the fall if we really want to help the pensioners by 1.1 until it gets there it increased from 100, 200, 300, 500 kuna to help them survive this winter. And that package of measures I believe will have to be brought as soon as possible because I fear that the 11th month will be too late in view of the announcements that are coming to us here from Europe. We heard that Germany has gas problems too, we heard that Russia is slowly closing its valves and we're going to have energy problems and energy problems. How it's going to affect the pensioners, we can only imagine. Now, we have another question that's being asked, and we also asked that question yesterday, that's how to motivate the employer to report the actual salary, the gross salary for his employee, or how to motivate the employee to report if the employer didn't report the corresponding salary. In fact, we heard one piece of information, which is that all those who have a registered salary from 6,700 gross to 8,000 gross will actually have the same pension because they will all equalize because of these legal measures that are coming to us. And now the question is, how do we get an employee to report his employer if he didn't report him for the full amount and give him one piece of money in cash? Of course, so far very difficult because employers actually explain money to employees you will get in your pocket, and after that your pension will be exactly the same to you since that level of minimum pension goes, etc., etc. We've got another problem, and that's how to deploy the funds differently. The question is are we ready to get our pensions up, or sorry, to raise pension funds by 1%, so they're no longer 20% but 21%. We have one problem also with pension accounts because those in the first pillar get 27% of the allowance, those in the second pillar have that supplement less. For the part they singled out in the first pillar, however, they get the same percentage for the rest of what they were in the first, the second column only gets 20%, so their pension is lower, and their gross salary was the same. So we still haven't achieved the same percentages being applied and our pension being the same even though we had the same salary. Furthermore, since we have a problem with that second pillar if we do not want to work on this equation with a single percentage, or to be about the same, we have graphs you can look at, at the Economic Institute, have a chart from 2018 where simulations are shown to make it look like it would be calculated with the same percentage in order to even it out, so that a nice difference is much less so that everyone is happier and happier. And now there's another question, are we perhaps ready to increase the separations to the second pillar and gradually reduce the separations to the first pillar? We're only asking for harmony. Of course, we're going to have a problem after that, and then we're going to have a problem with additional funding, given that we're taking out approximately 39% of our budget now so we can pay off our pensions, so it's probably something more than in case we really increase the number of employees and increase gross wages or increase, increase the income of these employees. So here's a lot of questions ahead of us, we'll see what we do. We will also have opportunities to probably participate in working groups, so perhaps we can come to a solution with common forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119678	We have replicas. The first is, pardoning the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119679	I will deliberately abuse the Rules of Procedure and inaccess the reminder, but an increase in the contribution means a reduction in wages. Contributions are paid out of wages. So, let's know what we're talking about. I didn't expect one Social Democrats to push for a pay cut. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119680	And you just said you'd use it to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Abuse, well that was your replica, you get a warning. [[I abused her.]] We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119681	I have to abuse the Rules of Procedure the same way as my colleague Hrelja. In fact, this isn't about whether someone's a socialist or someone else's commitment to the world. It is that we need to think practically, pragmatically if we want to help our pensioners and if we want to create a sustainable pension fund and receive our pensioners because those who are singled out for retirement will also retire. Therefore, it will all return to them one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119682	A good reminder to you, as you have announced yourself. Replica is a respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119683	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavic, you have opened two very important topics. It's one thing to pay off, but how we like to say it in a way that's still on the black list, there's a lot of it, and there's absolutely no inspection service to put an end to. You don't think too much about retirement coming one day and of course it won't be too big. There is one part of these private entrepreneurs who pay themselves a relatively small salary so they are always uncomfortable when they ask for the first calculation of what their pension will be. That's the same thing to say. And you've opened a question of the second pillar where we all know that the World Bank has designed this reform, offered to many countries, some have given up, some haven't even applied it, unfortunately we're still in it. Is the solution perhaps the third pillar, life insurance, far more investment while it's working? in, by the very future users themselves. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119684	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119685	Yes, some of the eastern lands have given up the second pillar years ago, but let me just answer to Mr. Hrelja, our colleague. In fact, he forgot that we have separations from gross and gross, so that we can talk about it, I don't want to take it down with you now, but don't forget that the worker doesn't have to lose any of his own personal income because it can also be done by the employer or that it can increase gross and then all together enters the contract, etc., etc. Well, now let's not pollemize any further. I think I'm right, am I? Here, thank you. As for what you said, I agree with you completely that we have to do something so that we can start and especially with these owners of crafts, owners of small businesses who pay little money. They were mentioned here today, it's those who have today's pension and 1,000 kuna, 1,500 kuna, and today they're the problem. They haven't singled out anything their whole lives, and now we have to help them to have a normal pension so they can live normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119686	Next replica, respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119687	Dear, esteemed colleague, so I think you've put a good emphasis on how to create the conditions for the employer as much as possible because, of course, we have a problem paying the salary on black, that's the problem we have, but how to make it possible or to create a prerequisite that as much of the salary is paid in accordance with the law, so here I believe I'm also quoting the future finance minister who said that more emphasis should be placed on disbursement of salaries so that the cost of work for employers is lower, and the net salary for workers is higher, which will certainly lead to workers being more satisfied which is certainly in the interests of the employer. However, I also think it was necessary to open the topic because a worker can influence pension, can't retire, how to attract investment, how to enable pay increases, how to put state property in, in the developmental direction, and many other activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119688	Your Honor, I thank you for this replica, you're 100% right and I agree with you completely. What we need to help the employer is to unburden him in another way, which is to remove his parafiscal burdens. The moment he has low parafiscal intrusions he will treat the worker differently and his personal income and will be quite different then contracts and applications both on pension and on health and afterwards and a different and JOPPD form that is handed over to the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119689	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of HNS, HSU and independent representatives of the respected representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119690	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that I was touched by the exposure or by the replica of my colleague Opačak because in some ways it diminishes the results of what we are doing. So in Germany when someone on average says that there will be an increase of 4% to 60 euros, we are talking about relatives from 30 to 130 euros without harmonisation. This is a clean increase, an increase in pension. Therefore, even in euro, it does not sound at all bad, but there is no point in reducing it. So I had to react because it just didn't, it's not true what was said. So, I use my closing word on behalf of the HNS, HSU, and independent MPs, to say once again that this is a law that is very valuable to our pensioners, that this law as well as all the laws will have its critics, that it will always be unsatisfactory, which will require an increase of all 10% but, but we must be reasonable, responsible, wise and at this moment have a foothold for what we do, this foothold, this law has a foothold on constitutional provisions to protect the family, it has a foothold on contributions from wages over many years, through 10 years of work, and therefore not used because one of the partners died and has a foothold on what was estimated, which we all combined estimated is that family pensions are one of the lowest, from the lowest, and should be increased, especially because those ladies and our pensioners are in the range of 75 to 100. Those who didn't have an internship, and they sure did, but they didn't have an internship because they weren't busy, but they took care of the house, the family and everything. So, at the end of this debate today, I would like this law to get the fine support of all clubs in HS, indeed all those who declare that they care about our pensioners and who respect the votes for their own and their parties by the pensioners because this is ours in the end of the common concern for the pensioners when we put something into the law. But I am sure that in the end I would also thank here for the agreement on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which it is realized, I would thank another former labour minister who has also given his pain to come to this situation, to these solutions, to the current minister of work who in an extremely short time has mastered the whole, the whole problem and excellent barata as you have seen all the concepts, even though it is not his, his fah, I would like to thank all the people of the working group who have been constantly working from the beginning of the year to today, but I will also thank all those critics who have called me and put me on the stage of shame that I am looking for a fair solution, that I have forgotten solidarity among the pensioners etc. I admit and I said that at the beginning on behalf of the club that I started with an initiative on strictly insurance access to family pensions, but when you know a system that is much bigger than any of us advocates can imagine, when you see how complex it is and how, what are the receipts of our pensioners and what is the structure then it's okay to correct their views and come to a compromise between social and just, therefore, and those who have affected their criticism to change attitudes, etc. I also thank you for their contribution to this whole draft law. I expect that we will take another look at all the comments and thank you all and thank you all for the quality discussion and good intentions and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119691	Thank you, too. The HDZ MPs' club, which will be held by Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, will follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119692	Thank you. Today we discussed the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. On behalf of clubs and individual debates, the situation of pensioners, the advantages and disadvantages of the pension system, the need for pensions for decent life meant different aspects affecting the economic status and the situation of pensioners. Retired people are a significant and sensitive category of the population, these are people who have singled out some of their salaries in their working days through contributions to enable pensioners at the time as they do and those who are currently employed for the existing pensioners. This is the principle on which the system of intergenerational solidarity rests, and we all need to be aware that one day we will be retired and it is up to us to enable the current pensioners and future generations to live with dignity in age and the possibility that pensions can cover life needs, but also to ensure the sustainability of the pension system at the same time. Today's bill of law is going in this direction, and the amendments and additions made to the Pension Insurance Act continue to act on improving the situation and expanding the material rights of pensioners. One of the primary objectives and key priorities in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme until 2024. It is precisely this increase in the adequateness of pensions with the sustainability of the pension system, which continues to work towards a positive financial shift for current pensioners currently over a million and 200 thousand. The most important newspaper proposed was to enable the use of part of the family pension with the retention of personal pensions as an age, temporary age or disability pension in the event of the death of a spouse or partner. The Croatian pension system so far has not allowed the simultaneous payment of two pensions but only one that is more favourable and has been decided by the user. After the death of a married and out-of-marriage partner, pensioners often remain in single households and are more exposed to the risk of poverty. Using part of a family pension with a personal pension will mitigate the consequences of a reduction in income. This newspaper will cover more than 155,000 users with an average increase in total income of 510 kuna per month. A total of 746 million kunas will be allocated in 2023. It also envisions an increase in the pension factor for the calculation of the level of family pension, which will increase family pensions by 10% by more than 136 thousand users, thus increasing their pensions on average by about 250 kuna per month, which will cost about 365 million kuna next year. It is important to point out that family pensions will continue to grow in coordination, and users will continue to retain the right to work until half of their working hours. In addition to the regular harmonisation of pensions made on 1 January and 1 July of each calendar year, the proposed proposal will gradually increase the minimum pension by 3% since 1 January 2023 by 1.5% and from 1 January 2025 by an additional 1.5%. Only in 2023 will the pension increase by 287,000 people of the lowest pension for which the government has secured nearly 100 million kuna. Through these measures, a large number of pensioners, or more than 500,000, will achieve increased pension income. The above-mentioned amendments will achieve a higher level of social security and reduce the risk of poverty, especially for pensioners with lower incomes, which we consider necessary and another significant step towards ensuring the adequateness of pensions, followed by which the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119693	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119694	Thank you, dear Vice President. Respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, according to statistics on the risk of poverty, one member of households is the most vulnerable person of a particular age over 65 with a risk rate of 52.1% and every other elderly person in the Republic of Croatia at risk of poverty. Therefore, the risk of poor elderly people in the Republic of Croatia is significantly higher than the EU average. For example, in 2019, for people aged 65 and over was 30.1% while the EU average was 16.1%) and for people aged 75 and over was 35.9% while the EU average was 17.2%. In the elderly population, especially women whose risk of poverty is significantly higher and women at age 65 was 33.6% higher, while women at age 75 and over were 40%. All these are data that I must specify and which worry but also require special attention in planning all forms of care, from the pension, health and welfare system for elderly people, future elderly people account for almost 23% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. We can welcome this minimal increase in lower pensions and the possibility of using part of the family pension of a deceased spouse, an extra-marriage partner with a personal pension but should point out the uncertainty in the part of the regulation of the additional condition, which is over 65 years of the age of a surviving spouse, an extra-marriage mate, especially if it is taken into account that up to retirement for women in 2023 is 63 years and 3 months. It doesn't make sense that a woman has to wait another 2 years for a family pension, which included comments in public consultation. These amendments also include special status for fire-fighting pensioners, who, like police, military and defence pensioners, will be given the opportunity to work longer than half the working time with half the pension, leading to different treatment in certain categories of pensioners. In the public consultation on this proposal, the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the Ombudsman for Children was involved. We will again point out that the older population should have a representative to ensure that the needs of older people are monitored, full planning and appropriate measures are taken in terms of the pension, health and social system, as well as others requiring better inter-resorship cooperation. The Institute of Advocates for Older Persons would allow for careful consideration of all needs of the elderly population and take an active role as advocate of all rights. The measures taken without seeing the real situation and not co-ordination have, for example, led to the fact that despite the announcement that the national compensation for older people will be used by nearly 20,000 people by the end of 2021. Today, the fee is used by only 5,853 elderly people. There is talk of pension reforms, but what is really a matter is a partial inclusion of certain categories which neither solve the problems of these users nor consider the overall pension system, so we also had a maternal supplement on each child at 6 months since 2019, but only for future users. What about other users who have been wronged, and no protection mechanism has been introduced for all other users. Women are inequitable in several segments, as well as in the amount of pension that is partly derived from the maternity benefits they have received, maternity or care benefits for the care of children and the care of household members. And you need to do a lot more to improve their position. We welcome the amendment that the family pension used by children is fully excluded from the exercise, and all in order not to reduce the funds necessary to support children or to meet their daily needs, and we suggest that for the sake of protection of the interests of children, the obligation to pay off the belonging part of the family pension to each member of the family and in cases where they do not live together or in cases where they live in the same household which they have both declared and counsel for children. I believe there's a model that the existing way of paying off family pensions is changed and I appeal to it here's the minister. We are facing the biggest inflation, the pensioners here are the most vulnerable and the most threatened, we welcome the increase but we do not think that they are sufficient in this context in particular to increase the overall cost of living especially the price of energy, groceries and daily life supplies, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119695	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of Honored Representatives Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119696	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In the final debate on behalf of the club, we usually highlight or deepen or strengthen what we said on behalf of the club when we spoke in individual discussions and give some emphasis on what seems important to us. What I want to highlight in the final debate is the following. When you have a demanding and complex law in front of you, then I always come from the next to see how our current condition is, what our goal is, and how we can reach that goal. So the idea of being part of a family pension or the idea is to define that you get behind the married second part and that family pension is not a new idea, it's an idea that has been expressed on several occasions in certain pre-election campaigns, and for that it should be a political will. Obviously, this is the moment when the political will was strong enough and persistent enough to actually do so. Is this the best possible way? We can always discuss that maybe it should have been one way or another, but it has to be, we have to be honest and we who are in opposition say okay, it's good that there's still a shift, it's good that something has been done. Of course we have to criticise and say you should have said even more, you should have been even stronger, but this is also one shift in relation to what we have now and to the reality that we need to look at and this law in the reality that we have. The reality is this, so I don't really want to get out of this pay phone, use this pay phone to use anyone with anything that scares me, and so there's a nice word waiting for us, a challenging sentence waiting for us, a challenging time, sometimes we've said it hard times, and now they're called challenging times. It won't be easy, it'll be hard in the fall, so this is just one little help that's going to be, really the ministry that's headed by our colleague, and every time I try to be honest, and every time I commend the minister who's with us in the debate all day, I hope it's not regrettable for these chairs, but it's a real desire for you to participate in the debate, to hear from it, I read two things, as first of all, that it's important to me with the proposal that you're proposing to stand behind him, and second of all, that you still appreciate parliamentary representatives regardless of who thinks or doesn't think, but you appreciate what we have to say because we critics some time we have and say some things that you're going to take on good soil. What I still want to point out is the following, of the 213 thousand family pensioners 93% are women, so 93% of family pensioners are women, that's just saying a few things. It speaks of what our past is like, it says that we should have a slightly different future and that it would be kind of commendable to say when voting on the EU, when voting on equal salaries for men and women, I would like to have one step, so let's say for the HDZ colleagues when the vote that the representatives in the EU are voting for the same salaries and for men and women that they haven't done last, because then this pension system will be second in the future. What I think is good, and that is, we have an existing state of affairs next that we don't have enough labour force, the current situation is that we're going to need pensioners who are now in retirement to use or encourage those who have such jobs that they can do that longer and not be penalizing than to be a reward, so it's something that some other countries have and I often know, I say in some other things I love these Scandinavian models, but in order to be able to have that model you have to be a Scandinavac you know, we're still there somehow this Mediterranean guy, so it's good that someone who decides, who has opportunities and wants to do more work, should actually take care of it. And as I have completed the debate on behalf of the club so will I finish this final, organize well the complete professional service, do not let our pensioners be the main ones they will be standing at the door and the counters and waiting forever without a solution, it is important for the entire success of this law, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119697	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions, thank the minister. The next item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 304. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Dispute. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear State Secretary of the Central State Demography Office Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119702	I thank the chairman. Dear Parliamentarians, MPs, here we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposed law harmonises national legislation to transpose Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between the business and private life of parents and care providers and repealing Council Directive 2012/18/EU. In line with the objectives of the Directive, further assumptions should be provided to allow flexibility in the application of existing new rights, all in order to increase the involvement of parents in the use of parental leave and more uniform distribution of childcare at the earliest age. And one of the most important guidelines is the introduction of a new right, which is paid paternity leave of 10 working days for single child and self-employed parents, and 15 working days in the case of birth of twins, triples or at the same time the birth of more children, in order to allow fathers to become more involved in child care and to participate in early childhood, and thus encourage fathers to use parental leave rights. During the application of the right of salary compensation is foreseen in the full amount of the pay base, and the right can be used after the birth of the child and no later than 6 months of the child's life, while also predicting the possibility of using the right to father leave in the event of the child's death. It also increases the maximum amount of salary compensation paid during the period of application of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents from current 5,654 kuna to 7,500 kuna and is equally arranged for the use of parental leave rights in the event of the death of a child employed or self-employed mother. I would only mention here that this amount of compensation will now increase to 3rd times since 2017, in 2016 it was the fee of 2.600 kuna, in 2017 it increased to 3.900 kuna, and in 2020 to 5.654 kuna and now we increase it to 7,500 kuna. There is also an increase in salary compensation during the application of the right to parental leave of an employee or self-employed parent as a right to work with half full-time from current 2,328 kuna to 3,658 kuna. In view of the need for more precise regulation and development of infringement provisions, infringement provisions are also prescribed for users of legal persons and responsible persons and for the purpose of ensuring effective supervision of law enforcement. It shall be prescribed that the competent authority of the state administration authority which is authorised under specific rules for the supervision of work and employment of each person under its jurisdiction is competent in accordance with specific rules. We estimate that the proposed normative solution, which provides for an increase in material rights, will produce a significant positive effect through improving the status of future users who will be able to achieve this right. The financial resources needed to implement this law to introduce a new right to paternity leave, but also to increase the budget base for this year amount to 90 million 882 thousand kuna and 272 million kuna at an annual level for the following year. What I would like to add is that, by analysing official data on maternity and parental support in the period from 2016 to 2021, we point to a constant increase in the number of beneficiaries of budget expenditure. If we compare 2016 and 2021, the number of users increased by 8% and last year we ended up with 173,444 users. In the total number of users, our fathers grew, more specifically in 2016 there were around 3,400 users, and 2021. 8.719 users. If we look at the share of fathers in the total number of users, it has increased from 2% to almost 5%. And that is why we believe that the introduction of father leave paid entirely in relation to the salary of the user of the unsustainable part used, used by the father as part of parental leave, is a very important incentive to increase male users as part of maternity and parental support. Furthermore, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2020-2020 programme, we will continue to implement measures that are important for further increasing the level of salary compensation during the period of application of parental leave rights. This is particularly important in order to avoid a significant drop in the standard of living during the use of parental leave, but also given that insufficiently high levels of compensation are one of the causes and a weaker response to the use of parental leave for mothers and fathers. I thank you, here's what I expect all of us to be involved in a constructive debate and that you will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119703	Here, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119704	Thank you very much. It is nice that this directive is implemented, which wants to include more fathers, but also the problems of the EU and Croatia are not the same many times, and I will look back at one category in this replica which seems to me that we have neglected for a little too long, and it is about children or parents who have children with difficulties in development and I somehow expected that we will correct these changes and additions and their compensation. She hasn't changed in five years. This is a fee that applies to that period from 1 year of age to 8 years of life, and it amounts to some 2,300 more. We even have Prime Minister Plenkovic's promise that it will be corrected, so I'm interested when it is thought and legally resolved, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119705	Thank you. You're probably talking about parental leave for a child with severe developmental disturbances, which lasts in fact until the eighth year of life. These amendments do not cover this because the directive is being introduced here or implemented in our national legislation. What is coming to us is the new Law on maternity and parental support where we will certainly not forget that group of parents we know have really big problems and that the financial benefits are really small. But what we must continue to take into account is that this law includes a large number of categories and simply increases in terms of not only that but also some other categories that we must cover in the following increases, and only the increase in the amount of compensation is planned for the start of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119706	The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119707	Dear Secretary of State, my question to you is whether it is possible for a parent to use the right to work with half the working time for the care and care of a child with severe developmental interference that this is included in the employer's employment quota for persons with disabilities. In this way, employers would have made it easier to decide to leave such persons in a working relationship, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119708	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119709	So labour rights cannot be fully resolved by this law, this law must be based on a number of other laws and labour laws and part-cooperation with the Social Care Act precisely because of these categories, but also on some other laws such as the Family Law. Given the question you've referred to me here, I believe that this quota should at least be recognised in some way by that, but here you can give us a specific question because we don't know what this is about, you've asked a general question here, so we'll definitely provide you with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119710	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119711	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, we are in line with the directive of the European Parliament and the Council on parental leave and it is something that is quite new in the Republic of Croatia and it is certainly welcome to welcome it, but I would now like to focus my question on the fact that, according to the current law, fathers can use either maternity leave with the consent of mother or parental leave by sharing it with mother 4+4, so if the father is involved in the use of parental leave, he has the use of both of these parents can be with his child for 14 months, it is, in my opinion, one benefiting from the benefit of the child and the parents, but I am interested in whether you have information about how much fathers have used it and if you are not satisfied with the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119712	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119713	Thank you. I might start from this last why we're not satisfied with it, you know that we're still a traditional environment where most of the obligations and care for the child and other family members take over the mothers themselves. This is something I may not tell the papers, but something that will still allow father leave in the Republic of Croatia as a new right for fathers to participate more in taking care of the child in those earliest months, but also to share family obligations. What we have analyzed by the data available to us because we are following our users we have noticed that with the increase in the fees that started since 2017 we are also recording the increase of fathers who took part in parental leave. By saying that that part of the intolerable part is much more attractive for our fathers, still the number of users in the maternity area, in the extra delivery part is small.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119714	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119715	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State is well aware, of course, that these amendments to the law raise parental fees from these existing 5,654 kunas to 7,500, but you are also aware, we also discussed on the board that there is indeed room for further improvements and changes, so one of these is the fact that we are doing a little bit of everything at the last minute, so by August 1st we are obliged to comply with the eu directive, that's the first thing, the second thing we chose is the smallest number of days where fathers can use so 10 days and 15 days, respectively. Examples of other countries in Europe are much better, you have no idea Austria's father's month, Finland 54 days, Slovenia 30 days etc., I suppose it's financial nature, but a number of suggestions are to present to you here I also tell the board to be at least two months and from that month to be mandatory, when you will go to further amendments to the laws that we have proposed to you on the board, and also in public consultation, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119716	Thank you. As far as fatherly leave is concerned, we have now placed it for 10 days, and we have discussed it on the board that it is not benevolent, therefore it is the right of a father who can continue to increase. On the other hand, that's where you listed Austria, but there are other countries that have introduced the right 10 days to pay, too, I don't know Sweden, Italy, which also have that right. But the goal is also to encourage parents to participate to a greater extent in that second part, or maternity or parental leave. This right we believe that it will help us, you know that according to the directive we must send a report on how effective the new right has been introduced itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119717	Next replica honoured representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119718	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here it is. We saw that the law entered the first time in 2008. and that it has already been changed six times, means that it is always trying to improve, and we who have already given birth know what rights we had at all and what we could achieve, especially parents who were self-employed, so I would like to ask you this question about this proposed increase in the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave for employees and self-employed parents with current 5,654 kuna 20 June, which means 170% of the budget value of the base on 7,500 kuna is 225.5% of the budget base. I certainly think it's a good and demographic measure, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119719	So I can only comment that it is necessary to increase this measure, which is the right and support that acts directly on the parents' budget, but let us not forget that support is not the only thing that can affect negative demographic trends. So there we have to have a whole series of measures that continue on this support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119720	Thank you, next replica of Councilwoman Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119721	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State we welcome the amendments to the laws that contribute to parents and the increase of parental fees and certainly the opportunity for fathers to take advantage of that father's leave of 10 days. However, we believe that the law may have been passed much earlier, that it should not have waited until noon because it is not even five more than noon. And I'm also interested in the fact that, on August 1st, they will come into force and that with the new law, the current parents who use parental and maternity benefits will have some basis for increasing the same or we will not give God another kind of discrimination between parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119722	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119723	Thanks for asking. Of course we will not discriminate against anyone, by official duty all existing users will be charged with a more favourable fee that is more favourable to them. We will also lead here, take care of those who have submitted the request, and have not yet received a solution, and for these users there will be more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119724	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119725	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome every measure that will contribute to raising the standard of living with children, and since we all swear to young people that our present and future are for them, we must take special care of them. As part of these commendable measures, they should turn to them as end users and take care of how young they are, especially women, in a worse situation. This law lays down the conditions for the use of parental or maternity leave for self-employed and employed mothers and they are related to the retirement period and should meet a minimum of 9 months in continuity or 12 months with interruptions in the last 2 years. Given that at the beginning of the working and parental internship, they may need to be able to be more flexible, to reduce these minimum rules that are now in this bill and whether or not there may be room in any changes and additions to improve these conditions for young people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119726	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119727	Thank you for asking, as far as the conditions are concerned, that they were prescribed as you stated them, but they changed in 2020 with the latest changes. Now 9 months are in continuity, or 12 with interruptions within 2 years. It used to be a lot more than 12 in continuity and 18 in those 24 months. Is there room, so if we are talking about young people and the future of this country, we should definitely think about it. And here I can't promise you, but in any case, your proposal will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119728	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119729	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, my question will refer to fatherly leave and adoption. So, last year, according to ministry data, 145 children were adopted, the last 130 which is more than in years before, and what we're actually supporting is the increased number of adoptions and is now the subject of paternity leave. Is it possible that fatherly leave also applies to fathers who are therefore adopted by children regardless of their age, these children because we are talking about 145 fathers or 130 fathers, relatively small numbers, and it seems to me that it would be extremely important and extremely important that in those first days when such a child comes into the family, it really gets full attention both of them, so also future mothers and fathers, so I wonder if you have considered whether this provision applies to adopters as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119730	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119731	Thank you. You know that as far as our adoptors are concerned, those who adopt a child up to 8 years of age have the right to those 6 months of parenting, or up to 18 are taken those 6 months first. As far as fatherly leave is concerned, we have made it very clear that from birth to six months of child's life. Is there some kind of flexibility we can always consider that flexibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119732	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119733	Thank you very much. These amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental benefits increase the maximum wage paid during the period of application of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents and, as you said, from the current 5,654 to 7,500 kuna. I will remind myself, and in my opening statement, it said that this amount in the government's mandate, Andrej Plenkovic, has now been increased for the third time. In 2016, this amount was 2,600 kuna, then the first raise in 2017 to 3.990 kuna, then the second raise in 2020 to 5,654 and now the third to 7,500 kuna, and this increase is extremely important as far as it was considered to be a small amount. But this is an extremely important demographic measure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119734	Thank you. The answer to the finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119735	Well, I don't think you should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119736	Okay. Next replica of my colleague Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119737	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you have already mentioned, however, it is not appropriate to explain again how the relationship between the current law or the rights applicable and the new law which is certainly more favourable for users, as I said, will not be permitted to explain this to all those to whom the new law will apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119738	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119739	Of course it's never a waste to repeat because, of course, we care about our end-users. Users in the course of use do not have to submit any request but will, by official duty, comply with the new law. I'm talking about working and self-employed parents. Those who have submitted and have not received a solution will be dealt with in accordance with the new law under those conditions that are more favourable to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119740	Thank you. Next line, Comrade Brcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119741	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Well, here's the law so far, we had a collective agreement that after the birth of a child, the father would get 5 days off, 5 means working days, and often he had to use these right after the birth, the day after the birth of the child, so often the husband would not even leave the hospital, and that time would pass, I believe, that this would now, within the father's leave, within six months as I understood, use exactly the best time when the husband was the most needed child, and not for that time, for example, to use only to celebrate the birth of the child, which is very good, but in any case most important at that time when the wife came out of the hospital and the child to be right at her place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119742	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119743	Yeah. Namely, fatherly leave is used for 10 days and is used within the first 6 months. The employer's obligation is to enable the user to use these 10 days within those 6 months from the birth of the child to 6 months of the child's life, and we have prescribed that it is a recommendation, of course, for parents to use paternity leave, and the obligation for the employer and what is different from the law you mentioned is that this support is paid from the state budget, and what you mentioned was on the employer's burden, but here, we believe that employers will still keep those, and those days because it also shows us how sensitive they are then to the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119744	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Puljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119745	Here's a thank you. So here we are, welcoming the amendments to this law, introducing certainly father leave. Here, it's bad that it is at the last minute and it might be better if we weren't minimal than we started with a number of days, but here, some EU countries like Luxembourg reformed their legislation have even introduced some kind of incentive for fathers to use this, to call it parent leave, whether or not they introduced some kind of financial stimulants, let's say even in Bulgaria you have a case that fathers have 30% higher fees than mothers who use the same leave, so have you thought about such additional stimuli that we actually encourage, is whether, fathers are using here and now this father leave, but even earlier this parental leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119746	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119747	Yeah, well, you've noticed that it's a stimulant use. By increasing the parental compensation for the use of parental leave, we have noticed that it was already one of the incentives that, which had forced our parents in some way, to use that part of the fee. Certainly the increase in the amount of compensation is stimulating because we know that fathers have often higher salaries than the mother herself and the agreement within the family is such that those who have a lower salary is also the beneficiary of the fee but our goal is to further increase the fees for reasons that they are available and equally used between both father and mother and that we do not leave our mother too far outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119748	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Zmaic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119749	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. The plan and programme in my Government of the Republic of Croatia is certainly a demographic revitalisation, which is one of the measures and strategic goals for the future of our beautiful Croatia. This Law on maternity and parental licenses introduces some new rights of paid paternity leave, increased parental compensation and other rights, although we live in a time of challenge where Covida-19, a crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, is an increasing cost of life, but nevertheless, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided and plans to provide additional financial resources in the budget so that these activities can be implemented in action. Can it make you a little comment and say that these are not small financial resources from the Republic of Croatia's budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119750	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119751	So if we're going to talk about the total amount paid for maternity and parental benefits from 2016 to now, then we see that it's on a steady rise. In 2016, we used these fees for around 1.8 billion kuna, and now we use, here, in 2021, about 2.8 billion kuna was paid for total maternity and parental support. Of course no matter what happens, we are, we are aware of the situation in which we have found ourselves, but we must also be aware that investing in parents is something that is an investment for our future, that is, we invest in our children, so that all the increases we have announced, we will achieve them because it is actually our future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119752	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119753	I thank the esteemed vice president, the esteemed secretary of state. This Law increases wages for working with half full-time for 2328 kuna to 3658 kuna, which is good for improving the standards of people with disabilities and their parents. Also, if we look at all the problems of people with disabilities and children with disabilities, and they are numerous, especially if we take up accommodation facilities, did you foresee the possibility to work with half their full time, using people who take care and live in a household with a person with disabilities, or with a child, without being a parent. Such a solution, for example, has been applied to the legal amendment of the Social Care Act, as regards the right to the status of the care provider, so how much is it possible to apply to the amendments to this legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119754	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119755	You yourself said that the Social Care Act is foreseen as part of the compensation paid for the parent’s parents, so it is a child with developmental difficulties, which is primarily in the welfare system. As far as these rights are concerned, they are intended in this early part up to about 8 years, but I would like to stress here that this right used with half the working time under the laws of maternity and parental support does not actually have a time limit but that it is used as long as the parent is exercising those rights in view of their working status. In this Law, we have provided that this applies to parents because it is the very name of such a law and to all those users and to the benefits to which the competent authorities provide parental care, i.e. giving them the possibility of taking care of the child Whether or not it's a child [[Intruder: Thank you.]] with disability... [[Intruder: Time's a little past.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119756	You'll have to stop. Next replica, colleague of the Grba-Bujevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119757	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. I've been doing a little research on other countries. We decided to model 10 days 100% financed by the state. Those countries that are, have fewer, and I'll read them so you don't skip, for example. Hungary, Sweden, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania. They opted for the same model as we just have less days, and those who have more days, they chose a model that says they will have more days, but they will not be able to handle it in a 100% model or limit it, like, Slovenia says, will have 30 days, but is limited to 763 euros that will get someone who is on those 30 days. I'm right when I think we chose the model to be in the middle and carry 100% of the state, not to burden, any employer, any man himself to get less money. I think that's good, but I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119758	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119759	Now whether we're in the middle or not, here's what I'd like to do if we were a little bit above that middle, but in any case our opinion is that father's leave must be paid in height, in the amount of pay itself, and that's what we decided to start with, I think it's a good way because this is just, you mentioned yourself that some countries have decided for a long time, but that fee is not fully paid, it's 70, 80%, or it's paid for the first week or the first few days and what's also important, which days we're talking about here. We are talking about working days, let's say, Slovenia has calendar days, so there are great differences. The differences are of course related to the population itself, cultural and other characteristics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119760	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119761	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we see that as much flexibility as possible on the use of parental leave as possible introduces the possibility of using the way partners agree, either individually or even at the same time or alternatingly, and I think that's good. The introduction of paternity leave is also certainly a newspaper that will contribute as much as possible to strengthening the role of father in those first days after the birth of the child and I think it is positive because now many fathers have to take vacations in those days because they could not have been different, to help their wife, especially in situations where there is no help from parents, I think it is very important. But I don't think that's gonna be enough to make fathers more involved in the way that they use parental leave as much as possible. I think that even employers should play a significant role, and we and all together as a society need to send messages that it is important that fathers get involved in the former development So please tell me [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Will you have any other measures in this regard? [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119762	You mentioned yourself that employers are also key partners in this whole story. In this Law we have arranged these 10 or 15 days of father leave but certainly in use, not only of father leave but of any other rights, the employer is a key factor and should recognize the essence of today's family and how much flexibility and certain working conditions are needed. Here I'll just mention briefly, we've spent, for several years in a row we've been running a family employer friend contest for micro, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, where employers themselves, even the most small ones recognized exactly the family as key and important and began to measure in their small businesses, to direct their small businesses to their users, so this year we had the first time that they were workers. nominated their employers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119763	Next replica, colleague Deur, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119764	Thank you, dear vice president, dear secretary of state. First of all, I want to commend this measure you recognized, young people at the state level. Young people who want to start a family, start up, are certain that this is one measure that gives one incentive and all these increases that you have, these few years I want, and I believe that this will go deep and in this part of the fathers into a new situation that young people have a different incentive and that this partnership of two young people, have a different system and as a father, and here I am really looking forward to it, and the fact and I believe here, that you will also give the authorities of the City of Zagreb to really get a new incentive for inclusiveness and not to bring down on young families, on families who are building Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119765	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119766	Thank you. So by this law, we have prescribed everything that you and I have stated, and the goal is to give the young families as much support as possible through this support. Local self-government must also be our partner in creating certain measures for a very simple reason because local self-government is best recognised by its population and the needs of its population and benefits from taking measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119767	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119768	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, turning demographic trends is certainly one of the most important issues that we would do well to have a social consensus on. I am convinced that these very amendments and additions to the law will receive unanimous support in this high house. In addition to this law, however, the central state office as well as the government want to strengthen the family by means of a series of measures, so we also have population, but also tax, social and housing measures. Only when it comes to improving material conditions in kindergartens over 500 kindergartens have they received certain amounts with which they were either built or reconstructed and renovated and so on. I'd like you to tell us what else you're doing about turning demographic trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119769	Thank you. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119770	Thank you. As far as the office is concerned, the office is horizontal and has to cooperate with all other resources. I would just point out a few of the measures that were implemented from 2016 to today and which were actually implemented. Of those measures that were aimed at active employment policies, why I started from here, if we look at young people they clearly verbalise their problems, which are education, employment, labour market, housing so that they can form their families. Then there are tax reliefs for young people, for young people up to 25 and up to 30 years and full and 50%, reduced VAT rates for children's food, seats, diapers, free textbooks, investments in housing, for example through APN's housing support system in terms of housing care and co-financing. a large number of children about 5, more than 5,000 children go through that support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119771	Thank you very much. My colleague Majda Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119772	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Josic, when we talk about the parental compensation or other 6 months after the child is born, we are actually talking about a fee that has been increased back to 5.5 years by nearly 5,000 kuna in the term of this government and I congratulate you on the State Secretary. So, with 2,600 kuna, it's increased by these changes and additions to the law by 7,500 kuna. It makes me very happy and happy. What also welcomes is the new right to introduce father leave for 10 to 15 days if it is about twins, and also what I want to particularly point out is that this law certainly improves both the position of women and their partners of husbands but the same. families in the context of pension rights. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you colleagues timed out.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119773	Here we will rejoice together now in response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119774	So here I thank you for the honourable MPs, that this is the right that is necessary for the introduction and in terms of the fatherly right that is new to us from those 10 and 15 days for twins, third, triplets and those families that get more children at the same time. What may be in this light where you wanted me to ask young people how encouraging this measure will be for young families, I believe it will for a very simple reason because today it is indeed a privilege for both parents to be at home and care for it at the time of birth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119775	Thank you. The next line has counterpart Michael Jaksic, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119776	Dear Secretary of State thank you for the introduction and for what I can say in front of the SDP that it is certain that every step like this we are willing to support and even congratulate on it. But what we would like to get in response is why we avoided resolving the issue of compensation for twins and for where we have three and more children, which we will do with those employers where the parent has the ability to work part-time, and we have some reports that then knowingly send them out of place to work so it doesn't turn out to be 4 hours or more. And since we all know that we have huge demographic problems and we can't exactly broadcast too much optimism in view of the trend in which we have found the following measures, the following steps, following proposals in front of the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119777	Thank you very much. Here's if you can short for these great measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119778	All right, we'll just take a minute, then. As far as the employers themselves are concerned, we have also prescribed the possibility for each user to address the competent inspectorate because if they have the right, and that is their legal right to half their working time, then they need to use the right. The other thing you asked me, so within the box, if you're asking me only as part of this twin parent law, third and next child is planning an increase in compensation. I think we can all agree that the 2,300 fee is pretty small. What we will plan further, we will improve this law but support is not the only thing we can give and what we can prescribe for our residents, but the whole range of services and cooperation with local, regional self-government is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119779	I thank my colleague Sabina the Voice has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119780	Thank you. Respected State Secretarys all research shows that fathers will be very happy to use parental leave if they have adequate compensation for missing from work and compensate for what they do in the world in financial terms. Now, this is a noble intensities, but we are witnessing that the absence of decommissioned fees is, or still, the existence of an upper limit that defines fees very often in the use of full parental leave, and I'm afraid it might happen here, because it is the fathers who, unfortunately, make better money and this could move them away. Why did you give up your pre-election promise now in the second or third of this sequel, trying to make a promise that you'd split the parental fees, why did you give it up?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119781	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119782	I can't tell you that we've given up on this, but here's the fact that we've already increased these fees very clearly in this direction that this fee has to be bigger and that it has to be acceptable for both mother and father. I mentioned at the outset that only the increase from 2017 to only 3,900 kuna had already encouraged one part of the fathers who decided to use the parental fee, and each subsequent increase slightly increased that share of fathers. Here I believe that even now this increase will still encourage our fathers, along with the fatherly leave to continue using parental leave and only from the fact that we have maximum flexibility and they have received these two months of unsustainable leave that only fathers can use.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119783	Thank you very much, ma'am. State Secretary you can relax a little now in your place before we go to Sisak and start with, we'll go together, we'll start with a debate on behalf of the clubs, the first SDP representative club, a colleague Sabina Vosovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, good day again with a co-worker, respected co-workers and colleagues. The reason for the adoption of this law is the obligation of the State to comply with Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council which was adopted before 3rd g by 2 August of this year. means 2019. That Directive speaks of a balance between private and business life which should ensure the implementation of the principle of equality between women and men in view of their opportunities on the labour market, as well as equal distribution of rights and obligations of care between both parents. By 2 August 2024 we must comply with the pay or salary directive for the last two weeks of parental leave, I hope that we will not be doing the same part 20 days before the deadline. That Directive clearly states that Member States must ensure that each employee or worker has the individual right to parental leave for a period of 4 months from which they are non-transportable for two months and not linked to the working status of a parent, underlining unrelated to the working status of a parent. This law in Art. 9th Amendment of Art. Article 13(3) and (4) shall be incompatible with the Directive as the right of the father to apply parental leave is conditional on the birth status of the mother and the rights she has used or for whose use she has met the conditions. Thus, besides the spirit of the directive, fathers are discriminated against by their mothers because, unlike their fathers, mothers or women can use leave independently of their fathers' working rights. Second, the system of parental support should be in the child’s interest by respecting a reality that contains different family and life opportunities. If this regulation regulates the rights of parents and similar persons, it is inadmissible that the law does not cover all types of family, partnership, and users. In doing so, we think of married and out - of - wedlock, life partners and partners, single - parent families, and in certain cases other people living in a joint household. In practice, situations arise that the biological father is no longer present or is not living with the mother of the child, and her spouse or out of wedlock partner or partner live in the same household and really care for the child daily in nature. We cannot pretend that such situations do not exist and these situations exist even though we may have to include the law and prescribe the possibility of transferability of that right to those persons, and enable the availability of this right to those who really care about the child. This should take into account the fact that sometimes paternity is determined on the basis of recognition and that formal procedures should not affect the delay in the application of the right. We also believe that the right to paternity leave should not be made available or that adoption should be made available to both adopters and fosterers, and to other persons entrusted to care especially if adoption or trust in care occurs within the first 6 months of the child’s life. The Ombudsman also warned that an extension of the age limit should be considered for the use of parental leave and for children adopted after the eighth year of life, which would in one hand be a motivating factor for the adoption of this group that we know of and we say under quotes that it is more difficult to adopt, but the primary goal and primary reason would be that, in these children, the adjustment to new living conditions is much more long-term, complex and should open up the possibility of the adoption child and after the adoption leave expires. Fourth, there is a special case of single-parent families who are in the absence of partners or partners in a drastically unfavourable position compared to all others. A single parent has less leave than a parent in marriage, and since I care for a child for him or her, it would be preferable to have the possibility of a leave for at least the same duration as those who care for a child together with a partner or partner. The parents of single-parent families should also be allowed to use full leave including two otherwise non-sustainable months for single mothers or fathers to benefit from a maximum prescribed duration of up to 8 months, to extend the range of persons to whom two months of leave can be passed on to persons from a wider family or persons living in the same household. Research shows that fathers will use leave, that's what I told you in the replica, only if they have compensation for missing from work and compensation for adequate incomes. We welcome an increase in the maximum amount of compensation to 225% of the budget base per month, but we keep the necessary lifting of the ceiling of the parental leave fee or demining the final fees. It was also your pre-election promise. In case you decide to continue not to meet it and insist on the rest of the upper limit, we believe that it should not be tied to a budget base, as is the case now but rather to an average salary in Croatia, it is quite clear why. The budget base is not indexed with the cost of living and has not changed for many years. In addition, in practice, it often happens that fathers do not use parental leave rights and two months of leave are passed on to mothers precisely for financial reasons because they rarely have higher salaries than their partners. That's what we've been warning you for years. The average wage is a more realistic indicator of the real situation and it is necessary to bind the fees to this particular parameter not only when determining the ceiling of the fee during the use of parental leave in half the full-time but also when applying the same rule to the application of the right to work in half the full-time for increased child care. The problem of low fees also arises from parents who are insured on the basis of a second income or contract of labour or copyright and parents of farmers whom the legislator placed in the same category as unemployed parents and prescribed that during the period of application of birth rights and parental savings, they have the right to 70% of the budget base per month, although, unlike unemployed parents, they themselves regularly pay contributions and have higher incomes. Such a provision does not seem meaningful and just, and this parent group should be treated as well as employed parents. If this is not possible, then it should also go in the direction of approaching or equating the amount of their remuneration with the average earnings of those persons. In particular, the damaged category is pausal crafts, or crafts, which are determined according to the basis for payment of the contribution and amounts to 2.937 kuna per month throughout the maternity or parental leave if used in full working hours. Although they have higher incomes, their fees are minimal and in practice prevent them from using leave with, they leave in the right sense. Although we also welcome an increase in the fee to a maximum of 110% of the budget base per month in the first case illogically, we see that the same right does not apply to users referred to in Article 16, and secondly we believe that it would be more appropriate for these two rights on the amount of compensation to be adjusted in such a way that they amount to 50% of previous income salaries and in a way that they are available to all categories of parents. If this is not possible then make the system fair because if the full-time fee is 225.5% of the budget base then it would be logical that the parental leave fee is half of those 225.5 and 112.75%, respectively, and not how you suggested 110% of the budget base per month. That's not half. Furthermore, parents who use leave rights to care for a child with severe developmental disturbances have been suspended twice. During the amendments to the law in 2017, but also the harmonisations in 2020, when all the fees guaranteed by the same law were significantly increased, the compensation for the use of leave rights for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances increased only symbolically from 65% to 70% of the basis. At the same time, all other fees increased by 20% and some by 40% of the basics. This right is of paramount importance for the care of children with developmental difficulties, it should not be particularly stressed. It is clear to all of us, and we believe that the amount of this fee must be accompanied by an increase in other related fees from the law as well as a real increase in the cost of life to which we witness almost daily. Furthermore, what research shows is that the paid permits for about a year lead to more positive effects related to the participation and position of women in the labour market and the welfare of children. The well-paid permits are considered to be the permits followed by the 80 % or more pre-paid income rate, the flexible possibility of using parental leave, the right to work in part-time, one day in a week or split into several parts do not necessarily contribute to better synchronising family obligations and paid work, and that it uses only a working environment. The situation in which fathers were used as parental leave in part-time or as one day a week did not contribute to greater gender equality in care. Research also shows that parents with insecure or unstable working careers often lose their right to full parental benefits because they cannot meet the conditions of a previous insurance internship, for example. 12 months uninterrupted before the leave begins. And it would be good to do this before going into this procedure, but I am also saying this because of the preparation of a new law to look at an analysis created by workers' gender equality in the world of work conducted by CEST and in partnership with the lawyer for gender equality and the oldest Icelandic women's rights organisation. There's a lot of good research and direction and direction that you should be taking in further amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119785	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, counterpart Ante Kujundzic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119786	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public, one of the main features of the subtly insecure people is boasting. In fact, what we've been listening to all day in this assembly. Let's brag about what? That which We have brought back unto the people only a portion of that which We have taken. And why do you end up boasting about something? Is the people so blind that they won't be able to see or recognize anything good? This is definitely as good as before. But it's a good thing people try, but we have a question of how many years we're behind on these moves. We are left with a question of the percentage increase in these fees less than the increase in the cost of the monthly basket. And we could put it that way forever, but I love it when people try because if they start trying a long time ago, we probably wouldn't have the demographic cataclysm we have and what we're witnessing. What is right away at first is great that they recognized each other or understood the importance of fathers in the life of a certain child. What also pleases me is that this fee in the other 6 months is solid and that the vast majority of women from, who are in employment will certainly stay where they are most needed in that time, be mothers, be educators in their family. What I'm going to contemplate, what I'm going to tell you today, and not to you personally, I'm grateful to you because you're sitting here, listening, recording, and it wouldn't be good for you to be the artillery of any of us here. I'll touch the adoption. I'm one of them and what's safe in this country is I'm not going to say it outright, but it's far from some status that we could characterize as one that's human, like the one that takes care of a man, we definitely don't have, and I'll tell you what. So if we start from the very maternity leave of 6 months to be used by someone until 18, do you think that 6 months is enough to develop a sense of affection, a key feeling that a certain child who has come into a particular family needs to develop, a key feeling that becomes a lever for growing up and forming into a healthy person. If I could put a clutch of one where I definitely can't put it for you, it's a maternity leave for foster parents until the age of eight of a child's life. What I'm asking you is when someone adopts a 10-year-old child, which is when someone adopts a 12-year-old child, which is when someone adopts a 13-year-old child. And until you two discuss it with each other I'm gonna throw you on forhand one more thing. How much is a country's birth benefits for an adopted child of £2,500? You know what we've got right now, if a biological parent took advantage of a birth benefit from a state adoptor he can't use it on an administratively new creature. Is 2,500 kuna worth something that maybe all of you will characterise here as the most human being anyone can do, I don't see it personally. When and while we discuss ideologically who might adopt and who wouldn't, to whom it suits in our Croatian state, that we have over 1,500 educated adoptors, educated adoptors who have passed what each of us should probably do, psychological evaluation of mental health, mental state. The 1,600 adoptors are in the register while we have homes with 4,800 children at the same time. I know it may not concern you, and I mentioned it wasn't addressed to you, but you can't tell me that neither you nor any of the colleagues sitting on the right side of this assembly can affect these figures for many years. Since 2015 we have the same percentage of adoptions in which we have in 2021, we have doubled from 2015 to 2021 if not a triple number of children in homes where only emergencies are received. Which is an emergency, when a child is at risk of life and from that dimension I say that this is not worth clapping about. The truth is, the measures you bring here should have been brought long ago, but better late than never. But I don't understand that as part of these changes, you leave one whole series of illogicalities, so the illogicalities that could have been changed could have been changed, and they haven't. They are not because obviously in our Croatia this state suits someone, obviously in our Croatia corresponds to the condition that the girls from a certain home in Slavonia are wrong and then we will get up neatly, look in the mirror, and if we are believers to cross over and go to the world mass, if we are not believers we will look again and think about our day, see what we have done well, and probably in the evening we will lie satisfied with that arrogant self, me who has lost every step of dear people from reality. And maybe this, I'll end it, it might sound populist in one way or another, I'm telling you this from the heart and I'm telling you from a human desire to change this situation, and that's why we don't need much, we don't need a lot of brains for any of us here. I congratulate you again and thank you for bringing this good here, I have no problem with this, but you have announced that you will be in a comprehensive change of mentioned rights. I'm looking forward to it, and I expect you've made notes, and even if you haven't made them, you know that and that with your authority and you and your colleagues, and I'm making myself available without the name and last name in everything I know, but let's at least in this most basic, most elemental part change the system, we certainly can, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119787	Thank you. Next up is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119788	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. These amendments bring national legislation in line with the transposition of the Balance Directive between the business and private life of parents and care providers. The paper, as the secretary of state respected, said, was the introduction of a new right, paid paternity leave of 10 days for employed and self-employed parents. In addition, salaries are increased during the period of application of parental leave rights. It is cited as the reason for the increase in these fees as demographic revitalisation is a strategic issue for Croatia's future and the continuation of work to reverse negative demographic trends and the better position of the family is clearly defined by the most innovative policy. We have to ask ourselves whether this is enough and whether only the Central State Office for Demography can do something at a strategic level without cross-sectoral cooperation and support from all other ministries. In my presentation, I will look back on what is the essence of this Law, which is the demographic state or demographic devastation of Croatia because in Croatia today almost all demographic indicators are negative and they point to entering a classical demographic breakdown. The share of over 65 years of age is growing rapidly, the share of less than 14 years of age is reduced, the share of the working age population is reduced and the number of people in rural areas is rapidly reduced. Since 1991, we have recorded more deaths than those born, in the last two years as many as 50,000 dead than born. This should be added to a negative migration balance, we have only gone to Germany 10 times as many people since joining the EU in 5 years alone, so it is the first 5 years after entering. Today, Croatia is leaving young and highly educated people who are long-term leading to poverty and loss of social capital and is jeopardizing systems from pension and health through education to security systems. Today, it's also a security issue because we're in the middle of an empty border area. What is cited as the main reasons for the eviction? Lack of legal certainty, economic prosperity, the possibility of professional development, then incompetent state leadership, incompetent leadership of political parties, expensive and poorly organised states, crime, banking greed, inefficient justice, corruption. So the problem isn't uniform, so it's not the same, it's easy to solve. What I would like to point out is that the EU's entry in 2013 did not follow the measures that would ease the migration into a more developed state-owned EU than in some other countries, so the Government of Zoran Milanovic then introduced a ban on public sector employment, which led to the eviction of healthcare professionals, and the consequences of these decisions are today when we are missing out on nurses, doctors and general health workers. All of the above in our inhabitants creates the mentality of impotence and peace with this demographic breakdown, so these efforts in these changes and additions are something to be welcomed because we need to move in this direction, even now, no matter what demographics say we've been through 5 to 12 a long time. The infamous top rankings per number of evictions are held by just Slavonian counties, so experts estimate that there are more than 100 thousand empty houses in Slavonia and Baranja with all accompanying facilities and economic facilities. Osijek-Baranja County has registered in the past 10 years according to the last census of the population the nominally largest decline in population, slightly more than 45 thousand, and Vukovar-Srijem County the largest decline in percent, about 19%, if I'm not mistaken. We have heard little from the reigning past weeks that in Slavonia and Baranja, the situation is getting better and better, but here, ask the peasants what they think of the ransom price of wheat of 2 kuna and 20 which is the lowest of all countries in the environment. A lot of people are thinking about whether they're going to go into the fall seed at all. But let's go back to this material that's in front of us, and as I said before, it's really been five to 12 years now. But, of course, it's never too late, these changes need to be welcomed, and I have to point out that we would really solve these accumulated problems and really go into demographic revitalization, not just the changes that can be initiated by the Central State Demography Office. We also need to change the tax policy that will attract investments in rural areas and remain a population because today the structure and number of residents in certain counties are becoming a limiting factor in growth. I will only give you an example of the city of Osijek in which the IT industry is developing heavily and which is chronically lacking in qualified workforce. Last year alone, 1700 informers went abroad, and perhaps the tax press against the cobwebs gave us its pain. From the above, it is obvious that this is really just the beginning, and as I said, these changes are welcome, but they will not solve this serious demographic breakdown problem that we are witnessing. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia must do, and it must do so urgently, is that demographic issues must be raised as a strategic issue of national importance, which depends on the survival of the state and the preservation of the survival of the people because the population is just the basis for the creation of social, economic, spatial and regional plans. It is necessary to immediately move into a specific population policy and measures through the introduction of compensation for each newborn child at national level at present we have one forest of different regulations at the level of units of local self-government where each one solves it in the way he thinks it's best. Then an allowance for all children in Croatia, free city or transportation to school for all children and tax relief for all counties with a population drop above 10%. Of course, tax reliefs should also be introduced for young people in resolving the APN housing issue did not even get what they needed, even from the European Commission warn that it currently has a very negative impact on the real estate market. These are all measures that demographers have been proposing for years, and it really is not necessary to invent anything, but to apply what has been shown in other countries as effective. They say when it comes to immigration policy, we need to see what Ireland and Poland are doing. They have become settlers from the emigrant states, and when it comes to the most intelligent policy to see what Hungary is doing, it is not far needed just to look a little further north. What is crucial, of course, is the political will to implement which is still not at the level at which it should be. I personally hope that these changes and additions are the beginning of a serious approach to demographic measures that we need if we want to stop these negative trends. The Croatian Sovereigns Club will support these changes and complement them as a sign of positive changes in demographic policy, and we hope that this topic will gain the importance it belongs to and that this problem will finally be taken seriously and systematically, not only at the level of the Central Bureau of Demography but also at the level of all other ministries, primarily the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119789	Thank you, MP Vucilović. We continue with clubs, the club of IDS advocates is next to present its position. On behalf of the club will speak colleague Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119790	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, today we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. We can say that we have finally welcomed his proposed amendments because for years he has been appealed to the government and the Resort Ministry to increase on parental leave the compensation that has been done in 2017 and 2020, but not to a sufficient extent. The IDS Club welcomes the proposed increase in the fee now that inflation is literally wild and we are in a global crisis because any increase in compensation to parents is of paramount importance especially when considering that food prices, clothing, shoes and children's needs are constantly increasing. We would like to believe that this law comes today in debate because the ministry has finally decided to listen to the parent's appeals, but that is not the case. These amendments and additions are proposed today by an emergency procedure, and that is solely for the sake of harmonisation with the EU and for the fact that the deadline for the EU Directive to be transposed into our legislation is 2 August 2022. The evidence in favour of this issue is the fact that this year there is a lack of budgetary resources to cover the cost of implementing these amendments to the law. Our demographic trends have been so bad and worrying in recent years that we feel that it should have been done long ago, but what is there. We've been waiting for the EU's signal, but good as ever said better than never. Unfortunately, in recent years, it has been known that after 6 months of childhood, the mother interrupted parental leave and returned to work precisely because of the huge difference between salary and compensation. In addition, fathers also avoided the use of parental leave due to very low fees and large differences between salaries and fees. So instead of being with a child at the earliest age of life, parents had to look for other solutions such as grandmother services or other ways because they simply couldn’t afford to stay on parental leave financially. The parental leave fees are really too low and often would lead to a drop in living standards precisely those children's needs in terms of hygiene but also other needs, and life is increasingly expensive every day. That is why IDS supports an increase in the fee during parental leave from the current net of just over 5,600 kuna to 7,500 kuna. All we have left is to see if this will act proactively in terms of creating a positive family policy and improving demographic trends. We hope so. I must certainly commend the transposition of the EU directive to allow fathers to receive paid paternity leave of 10 days for employed and self-employed parents. Unfortunately, the right to do so was long awaited because we know that so far no father’s right to father’s leave has been established by law. By now, most fathers had to take an annual vacation so that in the first days of their child’s life they could be with their wives or partners and children. We believe that the introduction of this right is very important because of the inclusion of fathers in care at the earliest age of a child, but as I said, it is also very important for the mother that in the first days of recovery she has the support that she physically in the form of some concrete help for the care and care of the child, as well as that mental one. I also need to look back at the fact that more and more fathers are taking parental leave today, which is commendable as I have already said for participating in the care of the earliest age of children or children. It is a good thing that it stopped looking at it with wonder because there are many examples where employers were at least found by such a father’s decision because unfortunately it is a valid rule for a mother to be with a child. It is necessary to continue to change this through both legal norms and through the consciousness of today’s society. We hope that in the future it will increase the number of days, that it will not be just the minimum 10 that is now meant for fathers. We also hope that the introduction of paternity leave will become the most normal thing for fathers to go on parental leave, not just for 10 days. It is also good that the state has taken over the obligation to finance paternity leave because we know that there has been talk that this leave may have to be financed by employers, and for that we do not know exactly how much it would have come upon fertile soil. And to sum up, we welcome the amendments to the laws that contribute to parents in a way that allow them greater parental fees and paid leave for their fathers, but we consider these changes to be only one minor step towards improving the demographic structure because the process is long-term and complex, and requires changes to several other laws, regulations, regulations and others, while the most important change that we need is a change in the perception of parenthood in society and we all have to work together, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119791	Thank you, colleague Nemet. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, on behalf of that club will speak the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119792	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us an emergency procedure to amend and supplement the Law on maternity and parental support. Why is he in emergency procedures? Because there is an EU directive to be taken over, there is a deadline, we have a parliamentary break, and in order for that deadline to be respected, we have an emergency procedure. We opposition MPs often make certain suggestions, we often talk about it, and of the ruling such simple proposals will be rejected. There's a proverb that says that something, why you're late somewhere, is not because it's something far away, but because you left late, so let me remind you of the legal proposal from this pay phone. 644. From 13 May 2019 when I made a request on behalf of GLAS, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support where I asked for it, and that is, it was proposed that this directive be included in this law as well, so thank you for the 3rd year, which is 3rd year. in the life of one man, not much, which is 3. in a country's life, not much, but it's 3. in the life of one, one young family or about the possibility that in those 3.g. Fathers really use father leave for 10 days a lot. Of course, there was ease in ruling who were then and now the same rulings that rejected the proposal for the reason why one whole solution was awaited. And look, it's been three years. And now here we are a few days before the assembly break to bring the same thing in the emergency procedure. Now, that's how it is, there are opposition proposals that don't tell us worldlylylyly, opposition proposals only those who follow regulations and who somehow think that our citizens need help and that was one of these proposals. I'll go back to that proposal, but first I'm going to have a little debate on behalf of the club about demographics. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's already too late, we've had a lot of things today, not to listen to each other, but somehow it would be wise to listen a little bit. 1991. in Croatia he was 51,829 children born in 2021. 36,505, fewer children born in Croatia were 15,324, according to the last census of the town of Čakovec without these settlements was 15,300 inhabitants, so since '91. by 2022 there are fewer children born in Croatia by the number of inhabitants the town of Čakovec has. So I'm not going to say any news when I say that it's 2.1 feet which, therefore, is a fertility that guarantees the replacement of generations. In Croatia we are at 1.48, by the way we are not the worst in the EU if it pleases us, but there is no us to rejoice. France 1.86, Romania 1.77, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Ireland 1.71 and Denmark 1.70. If there's anything we want to do and we want to improve that picture, then it obliges us to do it and asks for a set of laws, this is just one small, one small measure. Of course we're gonna support it being 7.5 thousand kunas so I don't say I don't make a mistake, birth benefits. Of course, every such improvement is our task sitting in this assembly to support it and to highlight it and to say come and make the opposition, the opposition MPs make it even better, but it's just one small set, there's your tax policies, there's your economic policies, there's a series of policies, there's our responsibility and our representatives in the European Parliament. The colleagues who belonged to HDZ in the European Parliament when there was a last vote on equalising the salaries of men and women voted against, voted against equal wages, one of the elements is equal pay will affect the increased number of children born in Croatia. School policy, the policy of kindergartens working in two shifts, not to keep children in kindergarten all the time but young people working differently. A series of policies you have to have to encourage the whole story at all. Now we're coming up with something that's very important and very important, and that's back on this fatherly leave that lasts for 10 days, how did it come about? Not because someone didn't have better things to do now, so now he's come up with something, so he'd say it was really good, and that's who came up? Scandinavian countries. So one of the countries that did an analysis and did an analysis among children, so until the 1st grade, they asked these kids through this analysis of how they perceive, who they care about, what they learn from, who tells them stories, who's important to them in growing up? First, the kids basically said, "Mommy." Then there were educators, whether they were in mangers, kindergartens or somewhere, then there were grandparents and grandparents and there were about 4, 5, 6 places, both where they were fathers and this was one of the measures where it was important for fathers to be involved from the earliest age in their children's lives. So, the topic is to involve fathers in early child rearing, so including at all in the growing up and everything else and of course, allowing mothers to continue along with their therefore, that women on the labour market are equally involved. I haven't seen it yet except in one film, and my colleague Rasdic once said there was a man's birth, that I haven't seen it yet, in this world and this life, a woman can have and there's no other option, there's no different variant. Therefore, what is the task of all of us, in fact, to allow a woman to therefore decide women to be born. Today women decide to give birth to everything at a later age. Medicine has progressed terribly and has done much, but the Fertile Age of a woman is a fertile age of a woman. The later you decide to have children are your chances to have children are your chance to have children as little as possible. So I'm one of those women who is, my children are already big today, but who I did my pregnancy in the fertility department and I know exactly what it means and how hard it is to do it, and I was in a relationship, so I had my first baby when I was 28, and then I was just like that, they looked at me a little bit, it's a little older. Today women decide to have their first child at 40. So, what they're doing is taking care of their careers, their jobs and everything else, and our role and our job is to help them, not make this part of the job harder for them, but to help them decide, so in these economic elements that are important to decide to have, that... It's only one part of a demographic policy that's relatively small, but we need to take care of it and we need to have a series of measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is just one of those measures. So what I'm trying to say on behalf of the club is that by chance, by any chance, you got confused, so let's say, three years ago, you brought this amendment and the addition of the law, there was only one provision that looks about like today. In those three years, imagine how many fathers in Croatia would be on, using their ability to have from the earliest age, to be with their child at home. How helpful it would be for that one community who decided to have a child and everything. But there's no forwards for us until we do things like this, and I've decided not to talk about adoptors on behalf of the club, but in an individual debate I'm going to dedicate the general subject of adoption, adoptors and the fact that in institutions we have more and more children and more older children who are very, very difficult to adopt, but I'm going to adopt that in individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119793	Thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Nada Murganic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119794	I thank the respected vice presidents of HS, the respected secretary of state, colleagues from the Office for Demography, respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has determined to encourage equal parenting, to encourage equal positions of women and men in the labour market, to enable the coordination of business and private life of all members of the community, especially families and parents, to strengthen the compensation aimed at strengthening the material position of the family and their members with specific support for children, to strengthen services that will enable just one balanced and balanced business and private life. Certainly, when we talk about equal parenting, then this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which has now come before us, will be adopted in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental compensation. This is why it is among other things, and the law will be passed by emergency procedure, since it is related to deadlines and application and is moderated precisely to strengthening equal parenting. A new right of paternity leave is introduced for 10 working days, i.e. 15 if it is two or more children and what needs to be particularly stressed, will be fully paid 100% and paid to the burden of the state, and not to the burden of the employer, and it is certainly one newspaper and we traditionally expect and we know that, by collective agreement, employees have a large majority, almost all of them, the right to use free days at the birth of a child, however, this is one other purpose and another purpose. And the point is to have a child with both parents and to fully strengthen the role of.../incomprehensible father in the earliest days of child development. I would like to point out in particular that we as a country have traditionally been on maternity leave for 12 and 14 months, respectively, if both parents decide to share on the second part of parental leave. I think it's a time that's important for early child development and it's important for his psychological and cognitive development and it's very good that both parents are with him. Of course, what needs to be done is a clear account, which is the material position of these families. Therefore this second part of the law, which is an increase in parental fees therefore compensation for the use of parental leave, I am talking about these other 6 months are going to be raised by adopting this law to, be at 7,500 kuna. There we all talk to the euro, so that's close to 1,000 euros. When you mention parental fees of course by criticism, but we are also aware that these are not partial parental fees, but that for a large part of our parents can say they are still broken down, it is about the amount of average salary in the Republic of Croatia and it is a great progress. Why do I point out that there is progress? Because in 2016 we found that the unemployed had 1,660 kuna parental compensation, that they were also the first part of the use, and that it was 2,660 kuna, that in 1.7.2017 we first increased it from 2,660 to 3.991 kuna. And before that, nine years ago, so I repeat nine years ago there has been no increase in parental compensation, and now in the mandate of the previous government and this HDZ government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been increased three times already. Whether it's small or much, whether it's enough, but the goal of de-mining is very, parental compensation is very obvious and significant. This law also introduces some changes, and this is easier and evening and agreeing, agreed use of parental leave. Already mentioned 4 plus 4 or 28 plus 2 for two children, three children and twins. There is also an increased fee for working with half full-time from the current 2,300 to 3,580 kuna. As a newspaper, they were introduced and let's say criminal or criminal provisions for an employer who does not meet his obligations to his employees. And here's what I have to say tragically, but it's also right for a parent whose child died. When we talk about parenting fees, the first association is that it is certainly a demographic measure, we would like it to have such a demographic effect, but there are still many factors that affect whether parents decide to create a family. One child or possibly two is certainly increasingly present in young parents, but we need to encourage the birth of more and more children, or third children. It is therefore very good that the State Secretary has announced in the adoption of a whole law that both rights or compensation will be, the right to a greater fee to increase the compensation for, for parental compensation, which is for the second, for twins, the second or third children up to 3 years old, and I think that this is really necessary for these more what is then about multi-member families, or more, children. What the HDZ Club has advocated and willed is promised by the prime minister in public and said that in the next law that we expect it to be in the debate by the end of the year, it will come from 1.1 next year to increase the compensation of children with developmental difficulties they have as a child care compensation of up to 8 years of age. This is because these children are expected, of course, to improve their health, psychophysical and mental state, and that in the final categorization, the artisans will be these healthy children, or they will have to be in the welfare system and benefit from them and their parents some other fees. Also, this whole law needs to be regulated because it survived a lot of changes, additions, it's very non-transparent, it's hard to read. What is important is that the law is aimed at parents, young families, so one general population and should be that way and understood, everyone in them should recognize themselves and the ability to exercise their rights. There have also been discussions through replicas, but also in the answers from the secretary of state, I see that colleagues and MPs have problemed some more topics and some areas covered insufficiently by this law or should be introduced as a newspaper for some user groups, for some children or our citizens. Therefore, I expect that this new, whole law will go in this direction, but also that through some problems it may be better arranged through other laws because this law cannot determine all of this. Interresorship is certainly necessary, but what we need to say is we have two fantastic newspapers, the parental fee is 7,500 kuna and we also have father leave, so here I congratulate all young fathers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119795	And we join the cards. Let's move on to club debates, the next Social Democrats' Club is on behalf of whom a colleague Udovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119796	Thank you. Family policy versus black statistics, here's how we can introduce this law. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support is addressed in an urgent procedure, although there has been more than enough time to comply with the eu directive and, through consultation with the public, to prepare a quality change or to adopt a new law, respecting the comments of a wide-ranging public on this subject. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly a helmet with the preparation of draft laws and implementing acts, and since the adoption of strategies, plans and policies, too much time has passed, and then statistical indicators are constantly warning us that the policies implemented by this government are not proactive policies. It is also the case with family policies that belong to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. Analytical basis for drawing up the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It gives a quality assessment of the existing situation in the Republic of Croatia and specific recommendations through examples of good practice in other European countries. But the Croatian population is old, empty parts of Croatia, some municipalities and cities remain completely childless, which is a black Croatian reality. The measures the government is taking are not comprehensive and there is a big problem. In order for Croatia to address the consequences of demographic change, the fertility rate must be increased in parallel to much more family policy measures, this must not wait. Increase employment and effective measures to increase fertility rates such as parental leave policies, family allowance, early preschool education and education for children under the age of 3. are necessary to make minimal shifts. In order for women who are employed and self-employed to decide on business obligations and those family needs to be provided with quality economic protection, but also to enable them to be equal in business and in the family environment. In Croatia, public investment in the family remains low and no equal distribution of family obligations is encouraged. The new measures that are proposed will not actually help Croatia's demographic recovery because these measures, 30% of women who have a higher salary than the newly prescribed fee will not receive their salary in 100%, but should be met on parental leave with several thousand kunas of less monthly income. Mahom is about highly educated women who have invested in their education, have later joined the labour market, and thus later and decide on motherhood, this measure certainly does not seem encouraging to them. I won't even talk about self-employed women who are exposed to entrepreneurship risk and who wave income in a way that they don't have employees but themselves. They are either forced to close their activities or return to work very soon after the birth of a child, and on the fingers of one hand we can list kindergartens in Croatia that are able to receive children aged 6 months. As for paternity leave, I guess Europe shouldn't have told us what to do, obviously it is, but we're looking again at how to make it minimal, so with these 10 days of paternity leave, we're going to position ourselves again at the beginning of European countries. For unemployed women, it is also necessary to provide a fee that will actually follow the cost of living, and this law does not offer it. In November of last year, the Social Democrats' Club tried to point out the unfair position in which parents who use leave for child care with severe developmental disturbances until the age of 8 of the child's life. The Law on maternity and parental support was last amended on 1 April 2020. where the changes relate to an increase in the material rights of the beneficiaries of financial support during the use of parental leave. Regarding the right to use leave for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances until the age of 8 of the child's life, the law was last amended before 5.g. and then the amount of full-time cash compensation was increased by as much as 5% of the budget base per month. In particular, when a parent uses the right to leave to care for a child with severe disturbances in the development of full-time cash compensation under the applicable law, it is embarrassing 2,328 kuna and 20 limes. The government has turned down our proposal for a minimum increase in compensation. I note, it was in November last year, now more than half a year, in which food and energy costs grow enormously, when everyone is afraid for their existence in this legal proposal of this group of parents, parents of children with severe developmental disturbances, stressing severe developmental disturbances simply puts them on hold. This article does not change, those with sick children, children with severe developmental disorders... I can survive with 2,328 kuna, I can pay the directories, rent the apartment, food, household supplies, provide everything their child needs, and actually can't get through the health insurance system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a minister or prime minister living with a fee like this. What a wait for the second year as our prime minister said, who will survive this and welcome the second year, and as long as the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State for Demography and Youth declares that the state for people with disabilities is throwing 200 million kunas out of the window monthly is visible that there is no understanding for these parents. The Social Democrats Club asks the promoter to pick up immediately through the proposed legislative solution compensation to employees and self-employed parents of a child with severe developmental disturbances and to actually end the constant discrimination of parents and children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119797	Thank you. The next club of MPs to hold their position on this bill is that of the SDSS. On behalf of the SDSS Club, a colleague, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119798	I'd like to thank the vice president of the assembly. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, it is a pity that we are talking about such an important topic in, only today, and we are talking about this not very attractive term and at the end of the 11th session in the emergency procedure, and the changes are commendable and important and concern direct parenting. At the same time, 2.8 is the deadline for the transposition of the Directive on the balance between the business and private life of parents and care providers from 2019 to national legislation. And that deadline has come dangerously close to us and it is a pity that we have waited so long to respect these European vuses, or that this directive is being incorporated into our legislation. That's why it's a shame we have to do this debate as quickly as I said about this truly life-threatening and important subject. During the use of parental leave, parents should be provided with social security through the appropriate amount of compensation, wages or cash compensation, and in addition to that compensation that should be granted, the impact of the duration of leave and flexibility and the possibility of using it in order to enable parents to take appropriate time to care for the child after his birth and during his earliest age. One of the important provisions of the proposed law is certainly the introduction of a new right, paid paternity leave of 10 days for employed and self-employed parents. The purpose of this institute, which is introduced into the legal system, is to enable fathers to be more involved in the care of children and to participate in early child care. The intensity is to increase the number of fathers who use parental leave, and for the purpose of harmonising private and business life as the directive says. The possibility of a right to paternity leave after the birth of a child in an uninterrupted period is proposed and no later than 6 months of child's life, and it is the right which a father uses independently of the working legal status of a mother. For the new right, paternity leave is provided for a salary fee of 100% of the base for salary compensation established under the mandatory health insurance rules. At this point in our legislation, there are no specific provisions on the right to paternity leave, and the introduction of such a right will have a positive impact on the division of responsibilities regarding concerns between women and men. It is clear that fatherly leave will not be an obligation but a right given, but it is certainly good that it will be both obligations and employers who should certainly ensure that fathers are entitled. In this context, however, it is worth mentioning one defeating data presented by the Ombudsman for gender equality, which is that in her office there are often fathers whose employers do not respond to the request or do not approve of the right to use parental leave because they rarely see it as a financial burden on their business. Surely, the behavior of employers is not correct and deserves to be sanctioned. We should view paid paternity leave as a step forward because we are among rare countries, if not the only ones in the EU who have not yet defined father leave and who will introduce it at the last minute and as I said in the shortest possible time. Slovenia, for example, the neighbouring country has had this vacation for years and it lasts for 25 days, Spain for, say, 28 days, and far away Finland, of course, for us for 63 days. I think the core of the problem of unused maternity leave or parental leave by men lies in something else, which is certainly our mentality. Fathers in the Republic of Croatia continue to be burdened with patriarchal roles and are primarily expected to have economic care for children so that, as the father says, the money should be brought in, and that is where his role ends which is certainly not something that is, not something that is useful is actually useful but is not something that needs to be supported, but that fellow Deur should change if not at least 63 days. It is not worth mentioning that in 2020 parental leave was used by 2,039, and in 2020. 1,870, although since 1.4.2020, the amount of salary paid for the application of parental leave rights has not helped increase the use of parental leave by the fathers. Some experiences suggest that parental leave is generally used by a member of a family whose incomes are lower so as not to endanger financial stability. I mean, this is usually, this is really happening, this isn't made up. The proposed legislative solution will define assumptions for an increase in the maximum amount of wages paid during the use of leave for employees and self-employed persons. In the Club of Representatives of the SDSS we welcome this and welcome the increase in the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave for all employees and self-employed from the current 5 654 to 7,500 kuna. In correlation with paternity leave, it is precisely a relatively low fee of 5 600 kuna for other 6 months of leave in part of the cases, where it was actually the main reason why usually better-paid fathers did not use the right to parental leave but used a woman for a whole year. As of 2017, it should be pointed out that the government increased the compensation by another 6 months on 2 occasions and then reached 5 600 with just over 2,600 kuna. And now I get chilly when I think of the other six months of my maternity leave or maternity leave and the miserable 1,800 kunas I've been getting. In 2016 the fee was lower, it was 37.5, 37, it was less born 37, 37, 537 children, and last year, with twice the amount of children born a thousand. I purposely presented this information and referred to 2016 and the year in which we are and should say that this does not mean that the benefits do not make life easier for new parents, young parents, but they are obviously not enough in themselves to remove any doubts that future parents have about the decision to increase family members. I will take advantage of the opportunity and express my support for the citizens' initiative of children with developmental difficulties that require improvement of their status, I am talking about children with severe developmental difficulties, especially part of the initiative concerning the increase of financial compensation for leave for care to minimum 4 000 kuna. All of us here need to be aware that the steps we are going to make in a positive direction are certainly not a magic wand for a bad demographic image in our country and will not solve all the problems, but are a step and will ensure positive shifts. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this new proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119799	Thank you very much. counterpart Sandra Bencic will now speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119800	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So somewhere else in the first part of this year, the CESI Association has made an analysis of the existing law and of all the shortcomings it has. Similarly, different associations, including CESSICEs, but also the workers' initiative, have made extremely important remarks on this text of the law. First, I would say something on behalf of our club, and that is that we expected that, given the many changes that need to be made, a new law would come, not to go back to changes and additions. I have already said here several times that many amendments and additions to certain laws really make it difficult for users to cope with the legal text, not to mention that it makes it difficult to actually apply itself and that very often neither the authorities of the state administration nor the general public administration are then sure how and what to implement and that they could really work on it in the future. 3 years have passed since the adoption of the directive we are harmonising with today. So she was adopted, she was voted in the EP on 4.4.2019, and the reason we're going to the emergency procedure is that we didn't comply with the directive in those three years. I don't think, first of all, that this legal text should go into emergency procedure because it is issues and rights that are important for absolutely every family in Croatia, and secondly, we have no excuse because it can't be an excuse that we haven't found time to sit down for 3 years and discuss how to implement the directive. Our key starting points in this are that we believe that apart from the whole system looking for more thorough changes, the Law itself needs to be improved in several areas, firstly, we believe that the Law should be written in an inclusive language and approach, i.e. equalized by all kinds of families and partnerships. That is unfortunately not the case in these amendments and additions either. So when we talk about an inclusive language, then we think that the text of the law should be cited by married, extramarital and life partners, single-parent families, partners and partners in certain cases of single-parent families and other persons living in the common household. The idea is that the system of maternity, fatherly, partner and parental leave is flexible and allows for the possibility of adapting to different family and life opportunities, and for the benefit of both parents and children, as well as achieving the principle of gender equality, involving women in the labour market and coordinating private and business life. Compensation for users and users of all rights should be, of course, the more, the more, the more consistent with what is actually the real cost of life, as well as the revenues that users have made before the application of the right. In this regard, we believe that the existing scheme of leave should be amended in a way that reduces the number of categories of leave and introduces rights for 2 types of users and users. Those who are receiving and those who are inactive. And that we have a cleaner picture and a more passing law on that matter. This would mean that employees and self-employed parents are united in the same category as parents who make other incomes and parents farmers, of course, also those who are self-employed, for example, on the basis of a flat-rate craft, etc. So these are all categories of parents who actually because of this different regulation make different types of fees, and some of them such as farmers, cobwebs, etc. They actually make extremely low, low fees. This is what would be our basic requirement to first introduce two categories and, of course, ensure that these types of fees are approached and those who generate the second income of farmers and flat-raters. When introducing a father's or a partner's leave, just to get back to this before, when we talk about these two categories, it's very important, so it's also important to recognize the unemployed parents who worked 12 months before, but there was a need for a leave. What, what do we want to put an accent on? We are aware that there is still a problem in Croatia with the release of pregnant women. There's a serious problem in the private sector with the release of pregnant women, which we don't, let's not make the classic situation of giving illegal notice because a woman is pregnant, but we have situations that don't extend the contract to a certain one. We know that Croatia is at the EU summit by the number of contracts on a certain one, especially among the young population, especially among young people. And what situation do we have then? Women usually don't extend their contract to a certain one, and we think it's something to consider. When it comes to father or partner leave as an independent right of fathers or other life partner, we consider it to be a minimum of 2 months, we consider it to be good of course to be introduced, but we also feel that it should be mandatory in some part. Why do we think it should be mandatory in some part? Let me go back to my previous argument. One of the key arguments why women do not extend contracts to a specific or why they are not employed is precisely the obstacle that employers represent the pregnancy of a woman. At a time when we will have at least roughly equalized use of parental leave by both parents, at which point that bias will be less because it will no longer have a market logic. And I think that's what we should go to. Of course, that's not the only argument. The second argument is also very important, and that is that we want every parent and male parent to really get close to the child and to exercise their parental rights from the beginning and to actually build this balance between private and family life and carrying out parental obligations and household obligations. I also believe that compensation should be prescribed during the use of a father's or a partner's leave of 100% of the salary of all the previous incomes achieved. We also believe that the upper limit should be abolished, i.e. the decommissioning of parental leave fees. In the event that it remains as it remains now, we believe that the upper limit should start to be tied to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, not to the budgetary base. In fact, you have now seen that even though this is about increasing you when you compare that amount, so that upper limit he is, for example, less than the average salary in Zagreb is. So we're not even at the level of that average salary as far as the capital is concerned. We also believe that there is a need to increase fees during the use of parental leave in half full-time and to tie them to the amount of pay rather than to the budget base. Also make use of the right to work in half the full - time work to strengthen the child’s care. Absolutely more fees should be prescribed during the period of application of the right to parental leave in half of the full-time period referred to in Article 15(4) of the Law and the right to work with half the full-time work for the enhanced child’s care referred to in Article 16. What we also want to highlight in this address is that, of course, we absolutely support the demands of all parents who have children with developmental difficulties and the fact that what they get as compensation really does not cover the basic cost of life, let alone the increased cost of living that they have on, with the basics and the fact that it is about children with developmental difficulties. Also, children with developmental difficulties are not a homogeneous group, and we should stop treating them as a homogeneous group and look at what the needs of different families are in terms of weight and type of actually the difficulties children have. We also believe that the terms of the insurance arrangement should be abolished in the exercise of the right to maternity and parental leave from the status of a self-employed person and the level of compensation should be calculated according to the average of the last 6 salaries paid. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time, and there's a lot more to it than just saying that this law was supposed to go into two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119801	Thank you, colleague Bencic. We don't have any more club reports, we're going with individual debates. The first is the colleague Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119802	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a legal framework which is based on certain rights, but what we have to ask ourselves is whether these rights are being exercised in the way that the legislator has prescribed, or in the application of the law there are deviations, and even violations of what the law has prescribed. I'll just make some. In accordance with the applicable Law on maternity and parental support, employees and self-employed parents exercise the right to maternity leave, on parental leave, working with half full-time, working with half full-time to strengthen the child's care, rest for breast-feeding, leave for pregnant workers, workers who have given birth or who are breast-feeding a child, a day off for prenatal examination, leave or work with half the full-time care and care of children with severe developmental disturbances, and rest of the working relationship until the third year of child's life. Indeed, very high-quality everything mentioned in the existing law is a number of rights that some of our citizens may not even know about, but if we look at what they are complaining about in the attorney offices, then we see that there are a number of problems in application. Namely, one of the most common is that when you apply in writing to your employer they do not respond at all to the question of using half the full-time to care and care for a child with severe developmental disorders, and this brings mothers into a situation where they have to come to work so they do not get fired without having a child’s care provided. We have cases of maternal degradation after the use of maternity and parental leave to work or to a job that is less paid, we even have cancellations because the job is abolished in the meantime, etc., etc. I don't want to pick it up now. These are all situations that mothers face and most of all in the real sector in private employers where there is often no union organisation to protect them. They are prevented from applying the rights that they belong to, and with our judiciary and the judicial procedures that last for years, they often do not engage in this judicial adventure of seeking justice in a court of law, so much easier to pack bags and go to countries where laws are not just a dead letter on paper, as we often do. It is therefore necessary to further protect mothers after returning from maternity leave and since we have heard from the respected secretary of state that the new full legal solution is in the works, here in this debate I will take advantage of the occasion and point to this problem, but also to offer a solution. What is necessary is to prescribe that at least 2.g. After returning to work, a mother cannot be fired and cannot be moved to a lower and weaker job. Since such violations are too good to introduce these provisions into the law and we see that a new complete solution that we should come up with in the fall on our assembly benches, I think this would be a quality solution to these problems. In the end, I will just briefly look back at the problems that parents of children with developmental difficulties face, they wrote to all clubs. Here I am as chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports called a thematic session, some who today are talking about this problem and they weren't, but I'm glad that we have a consensus of political and opposition and ruling that their problems are solved, it doesn't all come down to that fee that hasn't changed in the 5th year, there's still a lot of problems that we've mentioned in the conclusions and sent to all the authorities, I think there's political will and consensus about it, I see that already formed a body for inter-resort cooperation. As I have spoken to the secretary of state here, who has confirmed to me that they are already working and specifically on solving certain problems where they would consume existing rights that belong to them, I am glad that this is what they are doing, that it has really been approached seriously and I am convinced that we will all together and do something to make their position and all the rights that belong to them here so that they can and consume them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119803	Thank you. You've got a couple of replicas, first in line is that friend Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119804	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your statement of law. I would like to point out this way that I fully support the continued use of fees after the death of the child. I know this isn't the same law, but I feel the same thing should be provided to the parents of the carers. Can you agree with me because I think it is important to mention that these parents cease their status immediately after the death of the child as well as the compensation, so please kindly comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119805	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119806	This law is extremely important, and here I am also sorry that it goes this way in an emergency procedure, so let's just go to these changes and supplementals to comply with the directive. I hope that in this whole law that will come to us in the fall on our assembly benches we will solve a number of categories that are actually covered by this law. There's been a lot of talk about children with developmental difficulties, but there's the parent status of foster parents, so we have a whole series of categories and in fact a alignment with some other legal solutions because it's not just the Central Bureau of Demography, there's also the Ministry of Labour and Social Care that we've had here all morning about this Retirement Act that needs to be harmonised. And what's significant about us is that when you have a problem where more ministries need to cooperate, often it gets stuck and the ball is transferred from one ministry to another, and that inter-resorship cooperation somehow falls behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119807	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119808	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues, you are also in your individual debate, but I would say even in the debate on behalf of the club, more strongly emphasized the following topic. This is just one, one part of the whole picture, for the right picture if we really want to take a demographic step, and that demographic step has several of its components, so about some kind of immigration policy, we should have one special thematic session, I would say on the subject of the entire assembly having. But I'd say something about the most intelligent policy. There are a number of other sets of laws that need to be changed especially I would look back and perhaps you too look back at a number of tax laws that should actually be recognized there and we should recognize that one incentive and help women. So not only these measures but measures and employment and equality, the same salaries for the same jobs and a number of other things, because then it is a whole set of measures that will be an incentive for women, or what are the elements of the innovative policy in Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119809	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119810	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mrak Taritas, was just having my debate, and on behalf of the club, it was kind of going in that direction to point out that without our strong political will at the highest level and the cooperation of all the relevant ministries, and here, I said that in the end is what I mainly think of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Policy, we are not going to get any greater results. Demography is the key to everything, we economists always say every production function is a function of work and capital. The capital has, we see there's still a lot of it, but we're facing a shortage of labour, it's going to be worse and worse, and here's even for some industries that have a great perspective like the IT industry in Osijek, let's say what I said, we now have a huge problem because they lack quality, qualified and professional workforce, and that's where tax policy would have to be adjusted, included. Unfortunately, we have a tax press against the cobwebs, which then brings us more negative effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119811	Thanks, little with my carelessness you got 10 minutes more to respond to the replica. We'll make it up to you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Next replica, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119812	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke of problems in the private sector, but the fact is that they exist in the real sector, in public services, and in particular here's the health care I'm talking about. So there's a series of things, a breast-feeding break, a question of whether or not to be used, the limit is 2 hours a day. We need to know that it's paid, not 100% of the salary, but 100% of the budget base. The other thing is, you cancel when you get back to work, we're testifying to it, and not now in health care when we're missing, but there was that anyway. Changes from leading functions upon return to work with the maternity care provider. I don't want to squeal, but it happened to me 14 years ago. We have a problem on duty, nighttime work, so it's supposed to take care of breast-feeding for up to a year of a child. We still have a collective contract, I haven't checked until 3 years, we don't have to be on duty, it's okay when there's enough of us, but in some activities there aren't enough people and people have to be on duty... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119813	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119814	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. I'm sorry. I'm talking about my experiences in the private sector. I'm sorry to hear that this is happening in the public sector. Mostly in a health care facility where we don't have enough doctors or full medical staff. It's all the problems women think about when they're pregnant and when they decide on motherhood. So we often banalize both demographic problems and the situation and the whole problem and bring it down to compensation. It's good, okay, the fees go up, but these are the problems that a number of women face because if you know you're going to be removed, that you might get fired, if you have a contract of work that isn't permanent but for a certain time, it won't extend to you, it endangers your existence, and these are all serious problems that we need to talk about more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119815	Next line and last one, colleague Jeckov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119816	Thank you. In your presentation on behalf of the club you belong to, you spoke about the forest of demographic measures that occur in units of local self-government, different units. I agree with you. Some of these demographic measures are really innovative, interesting and useful. Some are inherited with virtually nothing. I'm interested in your position to unequivocally edit it at the level of the entire state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119817	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119818	Thank you very much, colleague Jeckov. I gave myself a little effort, so I looked at that excel plate that's on the pages of the Central Demography Office, and it's really a forest. Here, there's a measure of various, all units of local self-government, and there are over 500 of them we all know sort of solves things in a way that thinks it's most appropriate. From having some counties where there is no compensation for a newborn child to some others where for a third child it is and what few tens of thousands of kuna. Of course, fiscal capacity is not the same at the level of each unit of local self-government, but I think we should put demographics as a very important issue at the country level where the state should then determine all those measures that are in the medium and long term, and on the units of local self-government in principle put something that is specific for each one. This is how it is. really one forest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119819	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. We continue with individual debates, and we have a distinguished representative, Andreja Marić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119820	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of the assembly. The respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so this law that we are talking about now, has initially entered into force on 9 July 2008 and has been amended and amended six times so far. Here, even a colleague from the ruling option says that it really needs to be done and changed and refreshed. It clearly states in the opening part of this, these additions to the law that the purpose of maternity and parental support is to provide parental leave for the care and care of the child, raising the child, protecting motherhood, equal distribution of rights and obligation of care between both parents and harmonising family and business life. The fact is that we are making these changes quite late, so we have to solve all this together by August 1st and it has to be done in the minimum amendments to the law in order to comply with the Balance Directive between business and private life, but in any case we should work on making a number of things that we have heard in the debate so far put into new amendments to the law, I don't know when it goes, I guess in the fall or when it's already a plan. Next thing you know, it's a good thing that parents' fees are growing from 5,654 to 7,500 kuna, and we're also talking about a father's leave that will certainly have a positive, positive effect and the level of fathers' involvement in child rearing. However, we were already saying that we should resolve the increase in compensation as soon as possible... For the child's care with severe developmental disturbances, that's what the prime minister promised, but here's the law we didn't welcome. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the big problem is a really low compensation for parents of twins, third and each of the next children who use leave until 3.g. Life, I remind you of 2,328 kuna. We have to be guided by examples of other countries, but those who are better than us and who went to an even greater protection or presumption of maternity leave, so let's say Denmark 14 days a 100% amount, Finland 54 days, France 89 euros per day the highest amount, Italy is who we are 10 days a 100% amount, Poland 14 days also fully paid, Spain 16 weeks full of wages, so let's not look at countries that are worse than us but strive for those who are better than us. A couple of nomotechnical finishings, I already spoke on this committee, in Art. I'm missing whatever you've given this, this sort of, sort of interpretation, it's missing to include both stillborn and dead children, so that's what's missing because then it turns out that the other categories aren't covered. And Art. 10. We speak in one, so an employee or self-employed parent has the right to parental leave for 8 or 30 months. I think it takes plural, so the parents are 8 or 30 months, and the parent himself is 6 or 28 months, so I think that part should be fixed. We also talked a lot about what needs to be changed, in any case strive to share parental leave fees, strive to have fathers or partners leave for two months from which one month would be required and then to be four months paid parental leave, only two months can be transferred to another parent. In practice, the problem is what should not be allowed in any case, so the law must not condition the right of parents to the working status of another parent. The next thing you know, the question of fees to the pausal craftsmen, so now according to the basis for paying the contribution of 2.937 kuna, that's really small. Also for those who have, so parents who earn other income, parents farmers, you must know the contract of work, the author's contract, 70% of the budget base, means only 2,328 kuna. I've already talked about the issue of breast-feeding, so it should be possible for the mother to breast-feed and ensure the full amount of pay during breast-feeding, not to have 100% of the budget base, rather than 100% of the salary. Also for those who, for, for, to regulate nighttime labor while breastfeeding and the question of what I mentioned, say, in health care, by the third year really shouldn't be on duty or working nightly work, so you have a lot of those items that you'll probably adopt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119821	Thank you very much. We have one replica of colleague Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119822	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, I think that in this debate, the secretary of state will get a lot of elements to draft this new law and I hope that some will be respected. What we all know is that the level of law in Croatia is not small, it's really solid and it's going to be better, all the time we're kind of raising it, there's no saying that we're going to the lower than we're going to go to more. What you pointed out in your debate is about exactly what is crucial to the most intelligent policy, which is, this is, this period means when you have a third and every more child, whether that fee until the third year of life that is still left and now these changes are still relatively small and which should definitely be increased because only the third and next child is actually the most promising policy that brings us up from this state where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119823	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119824	Here's a thank you. So we agree that all that goes forward is normally this relief and some kind of contribution to demographics, in any case, of course, and what you said to three or more children. That fact has been ignored after all, this is really too little compensation of 2,328 kuna. Perhaps to stimulate, and even here were examples and some suggestions that if you go to a smaller number of months, you would divide one parent for 15 months, another 15 months, to increase that fee anyway. So there are several different models that I believe have also come to the office of demography, or to the resolution ministry that is in the far line as they sent us, probably also CES and sent you as well as different associations, so that in any case there are models to stimulate that here are really people with not only three and more children but at least one or two of which is also a problem and women are having a late birth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119825	Thank you. Comrades Katarina Nemet replica please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119826	Thank you. Comrade Maric, you have touched the number of days of your father's leave both in EU countries and in our neighbouring countries. I agree with you that the number of days that are of course 100% paid should be increased in the long term, and on the other hand should also be sensitised by the public and invited by the fathers to use those days, so it is not enough for them to regulate it legally, but even motivate them to, to use those days, I hope that you agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119827	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119828	I couldn't agree more. On the one hand, we've been talking for a long time, whatever we bring here, information, motivation, education. Yeah, well, we agree that we need to increase the number of days here in this bill I can use, right, so it doesn't say they have to anywhere. As much as the fathers will use it now, I hope they will benefit in large numbers, but the fact is that according to what we said and in the debate, that they should be stimulated, or legally, is it, to introduce that this maternity leave, fatherly, is it actually taking as long as possible and to be stimulated with adequate compensation because again, we have talked about it in previous law and the fact is that women have less salaries than men, unfortunately. And normally, men stay at work, women are at home, and if men were stimulated by the fact that their compensation is actually as large as possible, and not now as limited as it is, of course, that would be some kind of motivation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119829	Thank you very much. Luka, colleague Brcic and I.../incomprehensible/... here we defend men's colors, colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119830	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and another colleague. Here we are in the urgent process of amending and supplementing the law that is in the emergency procedure just because we are late, instead of being one of the countries that had the opportunity to be among the first, we decided to be one of the states that here, now it goes in the emergency procedure so we don't be late and I have to refer to it, so on May 13, 2019, we went with the amendment and the addition of the law by which this amendment and the addition of the law should be and imagine, we could already have that. I have to admit, there's one thing that differs between these two proposals. So the proposal we went with then was a father's leave of duty. So it was not a right but a duty for a simple reason, aware of the facts and the framework in which we live and the need to regulate it, but what is there is, where we are. As I said before, when I debated on behalf of the club, I'm going to put a little bit more of this debate on the subject of adoption. So in Croatia, about 110 children are adopted at the level of a year. For 2 years, it turned out to be something more, so 120 children were adopted in 2020, and last year 2021. 135 children. In her report, the Ombudsman pointed out that there was something bigger adoption, but she also stressed one more thing that we should not ignore, that there are many more children in the institutions and somehow the conclusion that is being forced out of it, that there are many more children in institutions because in welfare centres, no matter what they are called according to the new law today, many more children are separated from the family after all those cases that we had that the children's families died. So the father who threw his children away, I don't need to remind you of little Nicole, and much more decides to separate the child from the family and everything else. And what turned out to be this is that we have a lot more, so the kids adopt as little as possible. The older the children are more difficult to adopt and now instead I have to point out, someone who decides to adopt a child, not this moment economically important to him why someone decided to adopt a child, he will adopt a child, but we as a system, as a state should take care of it and therefore be really somehow through all the legal provisions, help. So we still have this one bill that I went to the same procedure, so it was rejected because it doesn't make sense, in which it should take care of the following, that really adoptors have the right to exist and for children over the age of 8. If they have certain things because, therefore, they have to adapt to those children, the children have to adapt to them, so when you decide to give birth to a child, you have already prepared all of your measures, you are ready to give birth to that child, when you decide to adopt it, he is long-term, he is difficult, especially if you decide to adopt a child who is 10, 11, 12 years old, you have to prepare yourself for it, and instead of the system allowing you to be with that child for a time, you live with that child, the system acts as a child number. This child is not a figure, and we need to take care of it and do it with special attention and in a special way. In that sense, I have also made an amendment to this bill that the right to paternity leave applies to those who adopted it, so that there is a deadline within which he has the right to paternity leave from the moment they adopted that child. I think my colleague pointed out here and another situation, so I repeat, my experience that I have, from a closer and further environment, I know that when someone decides to adopt a child, he will adopt it, he will take care of it, so there will be no economic reason, but explain it to me. Why isn't there some right that has, therefore, the moment the biological parent took advantage of, say, financial support, you adopt that child, since the biological parent took advantage of it, you don't have the right to support it, I don't understand why. Instead of having a series of measures The one we encourage, we don't do it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119831	Thank you. Now let's go to the replicas and you'll be left with more. A colleague of Boška Ban Vlahek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119832	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. As for adoption, I have an example of a colleague who, she would be a single mother, she doesn't have a life partner, and she's been struggling with adoption for years. It is difficult to adopt a child, on several occasions she tried, it is a situationed materially taken care of, all under normal conditions, but it is difficult to adopt a child. What's here, now a colleague who comes from the system, when you started that problem, you mentioned older children. A colleague says that children aged 11, 12 don’t even want to be adopted anymore, probably because they are in puberty and so, however, we also have cases where parents, or future parents don’t want older children. We said you mentioned an adjustment. How to help people, future parents, especially single mothers, to make it easier for them to become mothers, or adoptive mothers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119833	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119834	So I took a deep breath. There's no unambiguous answer. So I also know cases when people have decided to adopt older children and therefore help need those who adopt, but they also need children who still go into the adoption system. I sort of do some polling, and I always try to talk about the problem. There was one survey among children in homes. And what I have to admit is that me, I mean my sister is a social worker, she's been dealing with the adoption problem for years, so I know from what I'm saying, firsthand, and there was one thing where they were, it was about girls and then they asked them, they said, we'd like someone to do laundry for us. That the underwear I get don't smell like anyone else but to smell different, that someone washed it just for me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119835	Thank you very much. A colleague, Andreja Maric, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119836	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, recently when we talked about the Household Act, and you were now discussing that homes for carefree children have been overrun, there are not enough of them, there are too few adoptions, but also too few foster children. I have no experience adopting, but my family has had great experience over the years with fostering children, 14 or 15, I think. Once the fees were much less, now we've raised some of those fees and here it's not now, what I want to ask you, is not so much a matter of your own level of compensation, but rather of the problem when a child, say, fostered, enters the family, even in time we have two or three children, at the same time, if they were brothers and sisters, you're as surprised and amazed by this situation as children, and you need some adjustment. So will you take your sick leave, will you take your, I don't know, unpaid leave, But this law is not regulated. [[/Intruder: Don't take it. Thank you.]] How would you handle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119837	Thank you, colleagues, for your reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119838	Thank you very much. So I was deliberately talking about that adjustment. So we often look to both children and these relationships through numbers. I know that, they didn't, I know, I have one saying, they're not human potatoes, so now you're moving them from one basket to another basket, and they're even fewer children. So everyone needs some adjustment, they need some time, they need time for a new situation, especially someone who didn't even have one, someone who was in foster care, the assumption is that maybe it's a second, a third, or, and even when it's first, it takes time. Let's all remember together. We live, we pass the crown, we pass the part where there was no contact at all, and we all get out of that crown, we go out in awe, we go on vacation, we go for, I don't know, concerts, so we know what we've been through. Now imagine what all those kids are going through. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119839	Thank you very much. Next replica, colleague Mariana Puljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119840	Dear colleagues, here we are speaking one of the newspapers in these amendments to the law is certainly and we welcome this fatherly leave, how interesting the subject of fathers is to the information perhaps that there are now, I don't know, 15, 16 women in the assembly, and here, with the chairman, four colleagues. Last year, 1870 fathers used parental leave, if the exact fact is that somewhere around 36,000, were children born, it's about 5%. So only 5% of fathers use parental leave at all, here we hope they'll start using this father leave and we talked here, maybe we should put it to be obliged, that in some way, if we, popularize, we talked here about various models, I found, here and the data and I asked in the replica, other countries give and financial incentives to the fathers to use that kind of leave. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119841	Thank you, thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119842	Thank you very much. I'm absolutely certain of one fact, that he should be bound. So let's be aware of the circumstances in which we live and why even fathers on maternity leave decide very hard or whatever, and I won't even tell you that when someone decides, that it was then an example that was shown in the diary, I mean as an example, that, these are some things that should be. What was it like when I spoke for the club, I said, "Why did that fatherly thing come into being?" Not because someone remembered and was smart but saw that in the development of the child this figure of the father came too late. That he's coming at all, that the child was cut off for it. So if we already knew that that was the case, it seems to me that I wouldn't mind if it was mandatory for fathers to go on father leave for two weeks, so we'll see over time if it was 2 or 3 weeks and that would be one measure that would Absolutely acceptable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119843	Thank you. My colleagues Vucilović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119844	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Puljak, have recently been just the chairman and colleague Brčić, so, here is an increase of 100% of our colleagues, and we see that they are arriving, their topic is interesting, and that is anyway commendable. What we see from this debate is that in the debate we now went to both adoption and foster care, so we enter the domain and other ministries, not just the Central Bureau of Demography, it's saying how complex this is, in fact, a very complex topic. But here, I will return to the beginning of your presentation of colleague Mrak Taritas regarding that dilemma whether fatherly leave should be required either by choice or by the right which will then be consumed or not with all these problems that women or mothers already have when they return from parental leave and in the consumption of the rights that belong to them by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119845	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119846	Thank you very much, so somehow thinking further on this trail, I'm already here and I'm showing my attitude. I don't normally like these obligations, and then you always have a need to be different, but somehow it makes me really need to encourage them and come up with that fundamental question that we should always discuss is the pay gap between a man and a woman for the same jobs, and then it comes directly to everything else. I often speak an anecdote from my own life when I managed a system we called a competition. And I was just passing by and there were some candidates and there was this young, young woman who said so shyly that she had a little child. And I'm how I know sometimes to really be a little more aggressive than I should be, I say what you have is a little child. She says it's quiet like that. I say it's your advantage. It's not your fault. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's your privilege to have a child and have children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119847	Yes, it is, and we have to stick to the times and those seconds will pass quickly. My colleagues Martina Vlasic Iljkić please have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119848	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke of adoption and certainly there I must point out that it is actually the court proceedings that are long-term and which are actually a great and crucial weight as to why adoption as a procedure is actually long-term and does not go into the child's interest and in fact very often it protects the interests of biological parents who get endless opportunities for their own, for their parenthood. In these procedures, what may now be changing are these family departments that have been established recently, but this is something that court practice will show, and this increased number of adoptions is certainly what they said, in fact, an increased number of separations of children from the family. What I'd like to say, and there was a speech here that everyone wants to say is not in my vault, as long as we don't move the focus of thinking that it's not in my vault, so today we've heard it's not in my vault. I don't think we're even gonna move in solving the problem... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119849	Thank you very much. Please respond to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119850	Thank you very much. So, you can always sort things out formally and then say it's not my resort here I wouldn't want to or want to deal with it, and you can try and look at a broad picture. I always kind of think we should look at the bigger picture to show what we want to be. So you always watch what you are today and watch what you want to be in the future. For a time it was really a complete policy I'm talking about politics related to children, whether it was... that it is incomparable for children to be in a biological family, no matter what conditions they have than in something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things changed, but to change those things had to be two big dots that way, not to call it something different. A father who had his biological children, four biological children threw off the balcony and parents who had killed their biological child and then And then actually the result was an increase in the number of children who were separated from biological families. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119851	Thank you. Please, colleagues, Katarina Nemet, you have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119852	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Taritash, has just come to our e-mails with a proposal for your amendment regarding this law. I read it and it's really an amendment that would be good to support when we talk about father's leave and about parents, fathers who are adoptive. I have a circle of friends of people who adopted children and, of course, the moment the child came into their environment, the fathers generally took unpaid leave for a short time to be with them. I believe that this measure is something that should be accepted and I hope that the proposings will adopt such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119853	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119854	Thank you very much, colleague Nemet, for using that phrase like that, hope dies last. So it was there by our opposition many amendments that seemed to us to be well structured, seemed to us that they were okay, seemed to me that, it seemed, were to be accepted. There were even some amendments we said you won't accept them now but you'll go through the amendment and the addition of the law and do so. In fact, with us, the main thinking in this one policy that is related to children should be commitment. Are we going to encourage adoption, whether we're going to encourage adoption and older so-called. Unadopted children, and will we then have the measure that will enable us to do so? If we decide to have it, then this is one way, and if we keep it in shape or not, and someone else solves it, then we're going to be right where it is, but some little light is that some more children are adopted than usual. Over the years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119855	And colleague Sabina the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119856	My colleagues, Mr. Dark, you were kind of fast on the trigger when you sent your proposal to comply with this directive. You can see that this is done 5 to 12, 20 days before the deadline expires, but thank God for the EU because there is no directive and obligation to transpose this into our legislation is a question if and if we would have father leave. I support what you have said, it is also proposed by the CESIs and some other associations dealing with this in such a way that from these two months of possible use of father leave one part is insurmountable and that one month is justified by ensuring that fathers are more strongly connected with their children. On the other hand, during that period, they also understand the burden of the mother in the one-sided process where she takes care of the child and leads to this balance on the labour market and that she should deliberate the parents Refunds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What do you think of their proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119857	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119858	So I always think that we should look at the whole package and that this package is extremely important and that if we really want to make a step forward that's how we should do it. But what I'm going to do is I'm going back to your beginning, or the speed of the trigger. Remember when we were here in the debate that was related to so the menstrual needs and then we all said you'd cut that VAT down and very quickly fell to 13%, I'm sure it's going to decrease to 5% and it's going to go just as fast. I went with this proposal and when I got the answer and on the board I was saying I'd come to you on mine, you'd just come because the directive is such, it's got a limit and you'd come sooner or later, but it'd be good to come sooner if we showed that the country that's keeping track of it and I'm sorry instead of being one of the first ones that has it, there was a chance that we'd have, we'd be one of the last ones, but what's there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119859	Thank you very much. Next is counterpart Nada Murganic for an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119860	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here's an individual debate we all kind of focus on an area that we want to especially emphasize. Today we have already one, but another law that in some ways increases certain material and financial rights of a particular category of our citizens, we were on the subject of caring for older people, and now about young families and children. I will bow to those who very often say in a positive sense thank God that we are a member of the EU, so here is today an opposition colleague, behold wonders I will still commend the opposition colleague who pointed out this, that we certainly have directives that bind us, we have directives with which we can in some way compare, but we also have funds, different funds from different funds that we can and some of our projects for the benefit of citizens easier and to implement. The European Pillar of Social Rights has a number of points, perhaps related to this topic, I would highlight this goal of harmonising business and private life. This is when, here we are talking about the maternity and parental leave of 14, 12, 14 months or 28 and 30 months, but this child or children growing up and that is the parent who is employed, and our goal is to really be employed because of them very well, but also because of the material positions of their families, they find themselves in a wonder where with that child and then what the previous government is, and now this one has continued, and this is also the building of an institution for preschool and school education, so I will point out that we are approaching the Lisbon goals, that we already have 70% of children who are covered by preschool education, mostly kindergartens, that in the past we had what we have improved the material position of kindergartens that we have built 300 new, total 500 kindergartens, which we are from the European social, which was also the same from the European, from the European funds, or from the state budget, which we have achieved from the European social funds, which we have promoted them to 300 million jobs in new programmes in new jobs, and in new jobs, and in new jobs, and in new jobs. The Law on education and preschool education allows for a part of schools that have space to be transferred to kindergartens, and these are units of local and regional self-government that have been prone to do so, and the usual ones have just done so. What is most recent is from the National Recovery and Recovery Programme 1.2 billion, the competition has been renewed for the same significant number of kindergartens and I think this part of the accommodation of the child's education after the parent's maternity and parental leave is really well covered and the indications go in that right, direction. Of course, when we talk about demographic measures, it's a wide area, it really includes a lot of work and activity of all the resistors in the country, from tax to housing policy, and we can't say that we haven't had this new change in it either. As for the tax, VAT reduction, you know that it went to a number of products, however very often it runs out of effect. Residential loans for young families were also directed in this direction, of course, and some provisions of the Labour and Anything Act should be strengthened. However, it is clear that the strongest demographic policy of jobs, well-paid jobs, the economic standard of all parents and those who want to be and who are, but should also be fully realistic that it is not the only reason why people decide to have children, then rich European countries would have very many children, great natural growth and high birth, and that is not so. There is also something else to do, and it is likely that both meaning and purpose of life and commitment to rearing and children. I still believe that we are the state that will commit to it, and that we are as humans that potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119861	Thank you very much. You've challenged some replicas with your own discussion. My colleagues, Anka Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119862	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Murganić, I will have a very simple replica, so there 2019. when I went with a proposal to amend and supplement the law that the directive that was then adopted, which we knew was following us, or we knew that we would have to accept it in our legislation, that we would have a deadline, then I would have gone with the amendment and the addition of the law, was in the procedure and then the State Secretary and then, and now it was the same, tried to explain why it couldn't and how it couldn't, and I would have wanted to hear from you why, why in 2019, you didn't go with that amendment and the addition of the law, had it in the amendment and the addition of the law and had 3 years of something that, which we absolutely and today all approve and we think it was good. So, that's the leave the fathers are going on. something good for raising kids. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119864	Dear colleagues, you point out that you suggested it three years ago. Of course, it would have been great if we could have such a state budget if we could have all these measures, at the same time among the first in Europe, but what would be said in the people, it costs, it's a burden on the state budget, and when we took over 2016 and 2017, we simply didn't know which measure we would have put in the budget as a priority, and I already counted a series of them. And I could ask you, and why you didn't increase your parental and parental fees back nine years, so there might be some money left and there would be a better basis for increasing all other fees. But now we are and we are going in the direction not only of this directive, not only of that fee, but of many others, and here today is the day that confirms it with these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119865	Thank you. A colleague of Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119866	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, therefore, both of the laws, both of the points we are discussing today, have been well accepted and welcomed as commendable. So, although a little welcome addition to retirement and an increase in pension we are now discussing both parental and maternity benefits which are largely a demographic issue, and you have announced that here is actually expected to be a more comprehensive change of one let's say set, a set of laws regarding this issue. But when we talk about family policies still in the HDZ pre-election programme called Safe Croatia, you promised to double the amount of children's allowances, so here's my question: can we expect that all these comprehensive changes that will come in the autumn will actually include double the child's allowance as an additional demographic measure, or maybe even if we can expect maybe a single child's allowance for all children, therefore irrelevant to receiving His parents, so every child is equally important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119867	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119868	Here I am going to say that the child's allowance law is the second law, and when this bill is passed by the secretary of state, the whole law, the law on maternity and parental benefits, it will not include a child's allowance, but I understood what you were going to say. That it is certainly one measure, one financial addition to families, or something aimed at children. And everything that's focused on improving the standards of children and families with children I support. We've had one change. The change was more in the direction of increasing the coverage of parents who could use a child's allowance on behalf of their child, however, this asset price, income censorship was really very low, and this effect of increasing the number of users we did not increase. But surely in a series of these amendments to the law and to a series of all measures and it may be at a precipice growth for discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119869	Thank you. You've got a line from your colleague around here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119870	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Murganic, we introduce a number of novelties with these amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. One of them is the introduction of a paid paternity leave of 10 days for single-child and self-employed parents, or 15 working days in the event of birth of twins, triplets, or at the same time the birth of several children. What is very interesting to say and to point out that this second part that I believe will be the most interesting to people, and that is the highest maximum amount of wages paid during the application of the parental leave rights from the current 5,654 kuna goes to a maximum amount of 7,500 kuna, which is an increase of 33%. It should be pointed out that this is already the second increase in the same fee in here just over 2 years, which is certainly commendable and I believe that we will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119871	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119872	Yeah, we promised to share this parental fee, I think we're on the right track. I think already this third, that's the third increase since 2017 is significant, it's almost 300% increased confirmation that we're working in that direction and we're going this way, in that direction. A large part of our parents are now included especially with these 7,500 in some way we can say that their parental fees are limited which I am glad to go gradually towards those who still have lower salaries, lower incomes, and those who have higher salaries will probably easily and bridge that period than, from lower incomes of 6 months, but that certainly is not the goal. Our goal is to cover everything because it has one and psychologically not only a material effect. We support parenting, we support Staying a mother and a father with a child. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119873	Here's colleague Mariana Puljak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119874	Here's a respected colleague here often this one here in the assembly we see laws which and we agree on some topics and opposition and positions, opposition and opposition, but also some laws on the side of the opposition are proposed, but the position doesn't accept them here just because they're opposition, so it seems to me that this is the same case as the colleague said three years ago when she proposed it didn't come here today, but not to comment on it further. I'm interested in your idea of what I said today only 5% or less than 5% of parents, fathers use that parental leave at all, now we introduce this newspaper, welcome the newspaper, so this fatherly leave is a good idea to be obliged or in what way we actually live in a society where in some way it's a shame if father goes on maternity leave. In what way do you actually motivate your fathers to really They're using, here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119875	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119876	Well, I won't run, thank you, I'm sorry. I'm not going to run away from the fact that, that this is a small percentage, that we're a traditional society and that somehow it's embellished that the mother is more with the child, maybe there's some and biological and natural this in the first days of this urge, but this is a little bit of a joke, but there's one more reason, we're sure, we're talking about the difference in salaries, so it's probably father's salaries are much, much bigger, and that's one of the reasons why they didn't go on parental leave, but how our fees are growing, but also a new generation of very skilled young men who are ready and know and need to eventually get involved in raising children, and I think that we're still going to go in that direction that way that there's going to be more and more and more. [[/Intruder: Be my guest.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119877	Thank you. She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119878	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Murganic, today we hear different proposals and also criticisms about what HDZ should have done and what it did not do. I would remind you that just in 2008, during the HDZ government, this law was introduced, or birth benefits, at the height of wages and any increase that the HDZ government had just done, so I ask you to tell us in such short chronology what time and when, what increase there was in the matter of maternity benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119879	Well, here you are already principles as first fees, so I have to mention today they were mentioned by colleagues and parenting status and care benefits for the carer and this parental benefits were all passed and introduced as the first right during HDZ governments, which is logical for me too, we are committed to traditional family care, family values, and I think that somehow it fits into our general policy and our family policy, and I think that we can be satisfied. I am glad that the opposition is, however, because these are measures, or amounts that cannot be offended, and they agree. I can understand that they're criticizing us, sometimes these criticisms can be accepted, but I think we can be satisfied with everything we've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119880	Thank you. A colleague of Buric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119881	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Murganic, I am pleased that in your debate you pointed out that demographics are certainly a matter of state, but you also stressed that the issue is an individual. What should be pointed out here specifically is that the fee, the parental compensation for the other 6 months in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, has grown by 4 thousand and 900 kuna, so from 2,600 to 7,500 kuna, and I ask you as a person who is very much involved in the portfolio of demographics and who is very well-accompanied to try to show us comprehensively in fact all or as many demographic measures implemented by this government as possible from as many resolutions as possible, starting with 6 months of secondment for mothers and adoptive women in order to have a 2% higher pension per child.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119882	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119883	So here's what we've been stressing all along, it's also been pointed out in the debates that for the quality of the overall functioning of society and the state we need inter-resorial cooperation not only at the declarative level but really effective through the follow-up of regulations all with one goal of increasing the standard of living of our families and, in that sense, we've started with demographic measures, in some ways every resort could have done something at that start that would have been like a sound, like a prefix demographic, and I think there's already a tax policy where we've had a deduction from personal income that's increased for every child born, so this release from VAT for some of the supplies that are related to children, housing loans. You mentioned in tax reform a number of these income-related measures. It's very important to me to have kindergartens, everything we've invested in kindergartens and about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119884	Thank you. And a colleague of Luka Brcic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's my colleague Majda stole my thought in some way when she potentiated and your thought at the end of your individual speech that some rich countries don't have a good demographic image means not always giving birth to children driven by material motives but primarily by a nasal system. I'd also be here if in your ability only to interpret termology because I've seen terms used in the same context and birth permits and maternity and parental leave, however I suppose that birth leave primarily refers to mothers, women, and today we've realized that only women are still having birth, so parental leave mainly applies to fathers, but also to those for example 6 months when they involve parents, so I don't know if there was a mix of terminology [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time is running out, will explain colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119886	Okay, okay, thank you very much. You aimed well at having a mandatory maternity leave that really applies to mothers, but also part of that maternity leave with the consent of the mother can take over the father, and that is, if after those 90 days of compulsory maternity leave applies to both parents, but when I see you as a colleague then I remember that the units of local and regional self-government are indeed numerous, through their many measures have made a lot of contributions to strengthening demographic measures in their environments, some of them even being enormous and indeed in some areas are the quality of general life such as to be able to boast and say a little baby boom, boom, ha baby boom, what I want to actually happen in all Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119887	Thank you very much, and that's what I want. colleague Perić, almost there, colleague Peric She didn't mention a colleague of mine there. [[I thought it was her debate.]] A strong replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119888	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you yourself have said that the previous law, and this very much contributes to improving the quality of life of all our citizens. What is interesting and certainly you will know better is that the number of kindergartens we have built, and in relation to the European standard and the world standard, it is known for example. that social kindergartens like we have, for example. It's not in Australia, it's not in America, it's not in America, it's not in Australia, it's not in America, it's not in America, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in America, it's in America, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia, it's in Australia. So it's quite significant for, in fact, a demographic measure that improves it and tries to help families or employees of mothers and parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119889	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119890	Thank you very much. Here's the kindergarten I said we're getting closer with the coverage of children's accommodations to Lisbon goals. We already have 70%, when I came to the ministry it was below 60% and I think it's quite significant for raising and educating children for equal chances already at the beginning of the earliest days. What you might like to say is precisely in combination with the interventions of local and regional self-government units that are founders of kindergartens, which co-finance a significant amount of us kindergartens are not in the economic price almost anywhere, in a significant amount of co-financing of child accommodation in kindergartens, and even from the state level we have programmes, the secretary of state has continued to do so and has already expanded to help through the state budget to co-finance the accommodation of children in kindergartens. So not only do we have They're kindergartens than we're helping with their funding. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119891	Thank you, thank you. Now, a colleague of Grozdana Peric will discuss it individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119892	Thank you very much. Although a lot has already been said, and I see that the interest of our colleagues and colleagues on the left hand side has fallen, we must point out exactly what is quality and what is happening and what is happening to these amendments to the law. The aim of this law is to really involve parents or fathers to participate in early child rearing and what is significant in this law, by introducing a new right of 10 working days for employees and self-employed persons for one child and 15 days for the birth of twins, triplets or the birth of several children at the same time. So, within that right 100% salary is realised and that's what's certainly good and quality. It is also mentioned several times, and we should say once again that the highest maximum wage is increased, the salary is paid from 5,654,20 to 7,500 kuna, and this is as already said for the third time that this amount of salary is increased. Although someone says it's not just that, it's very significant that the mother who stays at home in those 6 months, or the father, is important how much this fee will be and how it will be able and how it will afford a certain, certain means with or can live and serve its services. What is also important to say is that more than 90 million kuna is provided in the state budget during this period for 2022, and that more than 272 million kuna will be provided next year, based on these amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. I would also point out that demographic measures are often debated as to what is needed to do in order to raise the birth rate, but it seems to me that all demographic experts do not have some, some recipe and all of this, through various measures, was a local self-government budget that really does not see how much this includes and how significant these measures are. From the experience of local self-government, what my colleague Murganic said significantly increased exactly that support for the first, second, third, and every next child. In addition, these support is also important for subsidising kindergarten prices, not to mention learning a foreign language, etc. and in preschool, and in this and in school age. So it's very important to ensure that this period ensures quality child care, it's very important that there are as many clear groups as possible. So, after a year, it's either 6 months or so, and it's very important that parents have the opportunity to take care of their child in certain institutions and thus make sure that the child is being watched and that they have safe care. That's why I think all of what these measures are and through this law and everything we've done so far through VAT cuts, therefore tax measures, income increases, etc. It is very significant in demographic terms and that this should be widely acknowledged, that in this period since 2016 a very large number of measures have been taken and taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119893	Thank you very much. Here, and you've provoked a lot of replicas. My colleague, Nada Murganic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119894	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear fellow Members, for saying whether they had put in their debate a single question about whether demographic, yes, the demographers gave as experts a cross-section which are measures that could significantly improve our demographic image and we all verbalized it here, even here where it's not a strict topic, but it connects very much while I was working in that ministry I wondered what we could do to make this all a significant turn. Yes, the fact that rich countries, therefore not, are paid fees, are not this, the only reason, are kindergartens, need them, certainly need them, whether this will go towards improving the birth rate, obviously not, whether these are other services, whole family food services, older members' services, services where children would be kept while parents have their free activities, raising children is really demanding or perhaps immigration politics. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119895	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119896	Thank you very much. I can hardly answer that better than you. However, I think that, if you were much deeper in this matter, you know a lot more about it, but I'm saying, through all of these measures that come from the level of local self-government that competes in a way that stimulates the birth of a child, many local self-governments develop certain industrial zones, and within these industrial zones, children's kindergartens, Jaslica groups and pre-school groups are created, so all that's very important is that the demographic image and even that the birth rate is raised because there is really no progress without it, there is no survival of any nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119897	Thank you very much. My colleague Maja Grba-Bujevic, you have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119898	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I can't help but comment and notice that this law that is terribly important for both demographics and for all of this, that part of the assembly isn't interested, but something else I wanted to ask you. So at this time of crisis, of course, funding was also needed for the implementation of this Law. How much resources are provided, how much of these funds have provided for the law to be implemented and thus to improve the quality of life, making it possible for young mothers and fathers to actually be with their family at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119899	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119900	Thank you very much. Well, here I was saying that in 2022 90 million kuna was secured, and in the following year 2023. The 273 million kunas, therefore, are all new funds that need to be found in order for all these rights to be serviced and to be achieved in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119901	Thank you. Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119902	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, here, I must say that both from the field and from the announcements of these amendments and the addition of this Law on maternity and parental support, are already very positive information from young people, from young parents and those who are just planning to become ones, so we are here to contribute to what we are discussing and those laws we are making, to get to the end users, and of course we need to know and listen to them, so I wanted to ask you specifically and in the area where you come from, I believe that there have already been positive reactions, as well as for this law, the bill we had before this debate, so here I think that we are today bringing, or we are discussing extremely important changes and additions to the law, and therefore I believe that this should definitely be a media excellently accompanied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119903	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119904	Thank you. Yes, the reactions are very positive. However, because I'm a grandmother too, so I have these little ones who need care and care, and besides that, their parents who need to provide basic living conditions, and certainly every kuna that can be achieved in this way is very important, through these rights of maternity or parental support, because you are all young, in fact, in the tension of strength when you form a family, but you also have to ensure a decent and normal life for your children. So every one, every one of these increases gets a lot better for each budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119905	Thank you. She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119906	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Peric. You were talking about a number of demographic measures, so all you said was that there were also some of those related to tax discharges, so I would just remind that in 2020, the annual income tax rate was reduced and that was 100% for young people up to 25 years, or 50% for 26 to 30 years based on a tax base of 300,000 kuna. The rate of income tax has been reduced, the basic deduction has been increased and so on, but the VAT has been reduced to a number of items, so would you please remind us once again which items as the same one of the demographic measures have been taken during this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119907	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119908	Thank you very much. It intervened several times on VAT. This was the first time in the children's seats, so it was 5% after that since 1 April 2022, we have a reduction in VAT on children's food at 5%, and also diapers where they are reduced from 25% to 13%. So all that was most important for babies during that period was indeed very much taken into account that VAT reductions were not in this way able to actually reduce the cost of young families.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119909	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119910	Here's a thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, the issue of demographics is the issue of all questions... Circumstances of life, young people, people already with children and in all these crisis situations where we are here governments for the last 20 years for the first time in several times this government has been trying to make a real step with all these aids, not just by helping to make a living standard for young people that one contribution that is trying to focus on a better life for true demography, for, for children, for creating a new life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's what I'm asking you to do about this new life that needs Croatia and what the government and this office are doing together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119911	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119912	Thank you very much, that if we were working the intersection then we'd be working right through a lot of laws that we've touched since 2016 on this. Here we have mentioned tax policy, freeing young people from taxes at certain heights of 50 or 100%, stimulating through here an increase in these maternity benefits, parenting. Indeed, in all these segments, not to mention how much through and through the social fund, through European funds, but also through the state budget of how many kindergartens were built, which is actually a prerequisite for parents to return safely to the world of work. So, huge, huge shifts are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119913	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119914	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, I would like to point out that the availability of early and preschool education is also one of the important demographic measures. So by 2017, this government actually built and reconstructed, built 500 kindergartens throughout the Republic of Croatia. Out of these 500 almost 100 precisely in my Primorje-Gorski County and Istria, up to 10 days ago until 2.7 a new tender has been opened for which the funds are secured within the NPO related to the construction of new kindergarten facilities throughout Croatia with the intention of creating 22,500 new capacities. In addition, you mentioned the extended work of kindergartens as also one of the demographic measures implemented This government, so please comment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119915	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119916	Thank you. So the need for kindergartens is enormous. What I can and what you mention is a lot of objects have been made. Still missing in certain environments. Let's say that my city, along with kindergartens that have two and three kindergartens, is engaged and additional and private kindergartens in such a way as to provide as many children as possible, and then over 90% of children are covered by this preschool education, which is very important that they really could and also lack capacity again, but now it's a question of the extent of funding actually for employees and needs themselves. For kindergartens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119917	Thank you, Mrs. Peric. Now she will speak to her colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119918	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, today when we talk about the Amendments and Supplements Act, we should say that the launch of demographic trends is one of the most important issues on which a social consensus should be built because under the circumstances of demographic ageing throughout Europe and the fall of birth, which increases the pressure on the sustainability of the pension and health system of demographic sustainability and vitality of Croatia are the issues that depend on the future of our people and new generations. In the last 10 years, the most clear warning is of population problems, primarily of poor birth, of the growth of the number of nursing households, but also of the unbalanced spatial distribution of the population. Many measures are aimed at increasing the birth rate, however, it is a challenge that will bring final success only after a long period. All direct and indirect measures of population policy should be encouraged. Since this is a challenge across Europe, there is also a need to add coordination of national measures with a population policy of similar European policies. Over the past 5 years, the parental fee related to other 6 months after delivery has doubled and has been raised from 2,660 kuna to 5,654, and we are now increasing to 7,500 kuna and 13 limes, which is 225.5% of the budget base. At the same time, a new right is introduced, a fatherly leave of 10 working days for single-child and self-employed fathers, or 15 working days in the event of birth of twins, triples or at the same time the birth of more children, but much more is needed. To reverse demographic trends, a number of measures have been introduced from those for young people, promoting employment on indefinitely, raising salaries, strengthening credit, tax exemptions or reducing it, and resolving the housing issue, professional training has been abolished without a working relationship and we have replaced it with traineeship, we have raised the amount of self-employment for young people with a business idea, we have helped many tens of thousands of young families who have solved the housing issue through the POS programme or subsidized housing loans. Thousands of children were born or adopted in these families. The investments in kindergartens improved the material conditions in 5 g. In over 500 kindergartens, however, employers and local and regional self-government units should also contribute. Employers can provide better quality jobs, higher income for workers, as well as better conditions adapted to parents. Units, however, of local regional self-government can also stand out. We have examples of municipalities and cities that give free kindergartens, have those who co-finance both transportation and books, even supplies, school supplies and the like, and we have those who decide to abolish the parent’s measure in this crisis. Isolated measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2016 Until today, 6 months of extra time for mothers per child, with their pensions increased by 2% for each child. We have active employment policy measures, but we also have income tax reliefs for young people up to the age of 25. by 30 g, respectively. The ones we talked about earlier, which I spoke about in the replica, we have reduced VAT rates for children's diapers, baby food, car seats, further investment in housing, as well as investments in the construction and operation of kindergartens. The government also decided to support municipalities for the maintenance and development of pre-school activities, increased income limit for children, increased as we heard parents' fees, we also have a pilot project free of charge transport of children, and support for young farmers. So far, the government's investment in preschool education has contributed to the fact that from 2017 to today we have investments in 498 kindergartens worth 2 billion kunas, of which we have over 200 new kindergartens. A billion and 200 thousand, a billion and 200 million kunas went into infrastructure while 300 million kunas went to improve services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119919	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Comrade Luka Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here at the end of this debate surely because we all agreed that the children in the first place and at the centre of their well-being and their well-being. I would mention in the context of these discussions and our homes for carefree children and people who work with them who are doing the most, I have experience while working in Split-Dalmatia County in certain homes that as far as possible to replace parents and here I am interested, probably unable to give an answer, but there is a secretary of state, that these funds are paid primarily for children, we know that the Croatian state is investing in these institutions in the welfare of children, I am interested in this difference that parents receive, and standards have children who receive, which are in homes so-called. Chieftain, does the difference go to these children on the control of the institutions themselves, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119921	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119922	Thank you very much. My colleague Brcic, so most likely the answer to this co-financing will be given by the State Secretary, perhaps in his final presentation, but all praises to Dom Maestral, I am very well aware of the work in the home. In fact, the city of Vodice and I, as mayor, have made up our mind and financed one child from that home and all praise to all those who help and thus make it easier for the children in the home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119923	Thank you. My colleague Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119924	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, helping to reverse demographic measures is certainly an investment in our children's education and education. Since we have NPOO how much resources are provided for in NPOO, what exactly are they for, and what exactly do we expect from it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119925	Thank you, dear colleague of the coat of arms, Bujevic. So investment in the system of education and education until 2026 through NPOO is planned 4 billion and 467 million, of which goes part for construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of preschools, as well as those of primary, primary schools and equipment of secondary schools. Through these investments, an additional 22 000 and 500 seats will be provided only in pre-school institutions, which is also extremely important, and it is certainly an aid to ours as we say to launch and reverse demographic trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119926	Thank you. A colleague of the Deur Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119927	Dear MPs here are certain that the fathers have played a great role in raising children in the family so far, but with this law we get one new or one new and situation positive to the standard, the whole family and what is your experience, what do you think that will go in our process, and will our fathers really decide for this holiday and do you think it will be a good measure ahead of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119928	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119929	Thank you very much. Comrade Deur, I am convinced not only of these 10 and 15 days, but that most fathers will decide to use this leave. In fact, we know that two months less can be done by a parent if it is decided to do only one, most often done by a mother, according to the use of birth rights, for example. Twins, third or next child is introduced to change the law when only one parent uses it for 28 months, and when both parents do so, they are entitled to 30 months and I am convinced that fathers will decide on such a thing because 2 months is not so little that they will be more than one parent with their child and not put them into one of our institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119930	Thank you. My colleague Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119931	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. In your debate, you systematically counted a set of different measures that were taken at the level of the past and this government, six years ago. I can say that they have covered almost all the resistors, or rather all the components of our citizens' lives, and of course we all look forward to the results, they will certainly not be as everyone wishes. There is certainly room for new measures and new improvements, and we tend to do so, anyway, no one finishes all the work for their lives or for their mandate. However, what I would particularly point out is that, in order to make this even more qualitative, more comprehensive, financially difficult measures have not happened in 2019, so-called. overlapping crises, but the government intervenes there as well. And you can't say that nothing seems to be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And don't take care of the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I certainly do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119932	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119933	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Murganic, we know very well all the measures that are so-called. Covid measures were also taken by the government to help and ensure the sustainability of 800 thousand jobs and to help 126,000 employers with over 12 billion kuna. We also have active employment measures and so on, but I just didn't have time to say that when it comes to the socio-enhancing housing programme, we've had 8200 apartments built through that program so far. When it comes to subsidising housing loans for young people, about 4046 requests were granted in 2022 alone, and what is particularly happy to receive 22,000 young people and to have about 5300 children born in such apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119934	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119935	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. You talked and you said a few years ago about investing in 498 kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia, for which more than 2 billion kuna was allocated, and what is important is that in the period ahead of us through the National Recovery and Resistance plan, another 1.22 billion kuna will be allocated. In order not to discuss these large amounts that are truly respectable, it is important to stress that the government believes that 90% of children will be covered after these 1.22 billion kuna investments. So 90% of children in the Republic of Croatia will have their place in preschool institutions. It is important to say, that is what my colleague Murganić spoke of before me, as the percentage, given a short period because a few years is a really short period, and it is a drastic increase, a huge increase in children who will find a place in preschool institutions, here, so your little comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119936	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119937	So I can only repeat that according to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which I have said is and for the system of education and education, more than 4 billion will be invested, slightly less than € 4.5 billion, only for construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of preschool institutions will be allocated a billion and €620 million, thus providing an additional 22,500 seats in preschool institutions. This will certainly increase the coverage of children who will participate in early and preschool education, as well as raise children in early and preschool education from 76.3% to almost 90%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119938	Thank you very much. Next discussion of counterpart Marijan Pavliček. As far as I can tell, he's not here. Next up is a colleague of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119939	Dear Vice-President of HS, the Secretary of State of the Central State for Demography and Young Mrs. Josic with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I am very pleased to have the opportunity to talk about these major, serious changes and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. What to say, without being told already, I would refer to one part that may still have to be highlighted, which is exactly the whole series of measures that the Central State Office for Demography and Youth has brought over the past period and what I really congratulate them on, and this is about the following measures. The Central State Office for Demography and Youth implements a series of measures, one of which is to improve material conditions in kindergartens. It is about the equipment and arrangement of kindergartens where units of local and regional (regional) self-government can occur and achieve a significant amount in this competition every year to improve precisely the material conditions in kindergartens. One concrete measure is the support for maintenance and development of pre-school activities, which is exactly the measure that municipalities can most apply to, units of local self-government where they can achieve a maximum amount of 220 thousand kuna per year, and this is 500 kuna per child, which is extremely important, especially to smaller municipalities, so that increasing detachment for pre-school activities because we know that both the material costs and the directing and food prices have gone away, all of this falls to the burden, yes, the municipalities and cities because it is not popular to raise supplies, so this burden is increasing and I see and I as the head of the Dubrava municipality as much as we have to spend more and more and more each year to compensate for these differences. Therefore, the 220,000 kuna or 500 kuna per child per year is of paramount importance to us. I believe I speak for many commissioners and mayors. It is interesting to note that through this measure we also provide one month of free kindergarten for parents so we in Dubrava have already provided a second year in a row for one month of free supplies for all children and parents, which greatly facilitates parents’ funding. What I would point out with this fatherly leave that we are introducing here for the first time in 10 working days for single-child and self-employed parents, or 15 working days in the event of the birth of twins, triplets, or the birth of several children at the same time. It's especially important to point out here I got through, through today I also got questions from parents who have in their collective contracts with their employers most of them have built-in and some leave that goes on the burden of employers, of course it stays that too. Therefore, this fatherly leave of 10 or 15 days is also being upgraded to those 2, 3 or 5 days or more, as parents do in their employers. This is an extremely good measure for me, and for this very reason, of course, it can be used for up to 6 months until the child is 6 months old, but of course, as a relatively young father, I know how important it is especially in those first days to be with his wife and help, and thus to be more socialised and identified as a new and young parent. What I would point out is also an increase in the amount that is not insignificant to these 7,500 kunas. Therefore, the maximum amount of salary compensation paid during the period of application of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents from current 5,654 kuna is increased to 7,500 kuna. As my colleagues and colleagues said before me, that amount was 2,600 kuna a few years ago. So from 2,600 kuna to 7,500 kuna is almost triple. It's not a small thing and it should be emphasized and it should be said so this maximum amount for those 6 months will be 7,500 kuna and I know it will mean a lot, a lot. I'm running out of time. I had a lot more to say. The co-operation of local and regional self-government units with, with the government is very important because municipalities, cities and counties can through their measures and through their budgets significantly to encourage young parents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119940	Thank you. Now, here's my colleague, Ante Deur, on behalf of the HDZ Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119941	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretary, dear fellow MPs, is here today before us this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, which the government has sent to the Assembly. Here, we can welcome the bill for many reasons. One is a rise in the cost of life that is certainly an indicator of all the challenges and problems families face today, young people. Demography is still a question of all issues. How to keep young families, how to provide them with life, an environment where they can make a family, have children? For the children are surely one of the mildness of God that gives one image of the life of our country. The role of family and parenting has changed quite a bit today. It's not easy to be a parent today, you'll all agree. Employed young people with children, young people today find themselves in situations where on the one hand they show growing professional ambitions, while on the other hand the natural desire of every young family is to start a family and have children. The government of the Republic of Croatia has identified the issue of demographic renewal as one of the strategic issues of Croatia's future and strongly advocates continuing work to stop negative demographic measures. Some of the measures the government takes towards young people and families concern education, scholarship, isolation, promotion of employment indefinitely, encouraging, resolving housing issues, strengthening the family through population tax, social, housing and other sectoral policies. Certainly, it is necessary to recognize the needs of young people who form a family, help them, ease their financial burden, and facilitate the harmonisation of family and business obligations. Change and supplementation of the parent and parent support that are in the procedure... in increasing the maximum amount of salary compensation is just all this increase that has been made in all the growth in this government, this is the third increase in the mandate of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first term of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the maximum wage fee was increased twice during the use of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents. For the first time from 2,660 kuna to 3,991, and the second from 5,654 to, to an even greater increase are salaries during parental leave that are half working hours from the current 2,300 to 3,658 kuna. We therefore welcome the introduction of this fatherly leave for because young families will have more opportunities in the distribution of parental time, joint education, and care for their own children. I expect these changes to the law, too, will affect the family's standard of living through a rise in salary pay. I believe that the introduction of paternity leave will further encourage the fathers in their involvement, surely it has been a long time ago, but this is a new moment that certainly gives one special and one joy and care for a newborn child in the first days of a child's life. It is clear that material support is not the only one, but the government invests through other resorts, through kindergartens, we have heard how much financial increases are minimum wages, housing and tax relief. In 2016, the government has introduced guaranteed measures from tax reliefs on income for young people up to 25 years. And in 30 years, the VAT rate was reduced to 13% to various supplies, food, all possible basic needs of life that a young family met for the first time as a family in their lives. It is also invested through various housing measures, investing in the construction of children's kindergartens. I'm sure kindergartens give a special incentive to young families in their life ambitions and in their jobs. What the government at the state level and the state office are doing is something that shows and can certainly, as I said today, give one incentive to the City of Zagreb to be seen and that it can indeed, with inclusive efforts, certainly help the involvement of young people in difficult times. This is because of all of this and the above facts as the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues with a real incentive environment for the family and support of parenting club HDZ will support the amendments and additions of the Law on maternity and parental support, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119942	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the final speech will be by colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very end of this debate today, I would like to reiterate that the Club of Representatives of the SDP supports the implementation of the Balance Directive between private and business life in national legislation, but at the same time expresses regret that we are doing so 5 to 12, and 20 days before the expiry of that deadline, which we are obliged to do the same, which is August 2nd. Secondly, given the announced comprehensive amendments to the laws in which the government will go, which in this case are left behind, we will repeat or I will repeat on behalf of the club just one more few things that I ask you to pay attention to, some of them are not well regulated by this bill either, but I think that some ambiguity and improvement of the system can be achieved by its implementation in the further development of this system of maternity and parental support itself. First, what we think is necessary is that no one should be discriminated against and that parental support should really go to persons who are perceived as shared responsibility and who care about children, regardless of whether it is a marriage partner or a partner, an out-of-marriage partner or a partner, regardless of whether it is formal or informal life partners, regardless of whether it is members of a joint household or members of a wider family in cases where we have single-parent families where care de facto belongs to only one person and are quite in a thankless, ungrateful position and state could assist them in ways to identify all these differences in which children live and grow up today and where other people who are not formal partners take care of them. Likewise, when we have disputes relating to the proof of paternity, all legal barriers should be removed that because of this process of proof of paternity which is often known to remain or do not activate the rights to use certain rights immediately before the completion of these long-term procedures. Thirdly, what we should also think about is, once again, the devising of parental benefits, independently in the second part, but also when we talk about fathers, regardless of whether it's women or men. Here when we talk about paternity leave very often, we have heard it already today more pay, very often this financial aspect is the reason why a low-paid person in this family, which is most often a woman, which is actually benefiting from parental leave, and then we do not realize the full intensity of the directive which is needed in some way to ensure that the father connects more with the child, to free the woman from being able to return to the labour market, but also to consider that one part of that leave is intolerable or to be obliged to be clean in order to prevent discrimination against potential fathers who express the desire of employers to want the same, want to benefit because there is still no matter what we do as a society progress in some parts. Thirdly, if we don't share these parental support, then let's be consistent, if it's full-time compensation, I'll call it that, in full-time, for full-time use, it's 225.5% of the base, then there's a half-time fee, and half-time there's half of it, and not less than proposed by this, this law. Likewise, when we talk about the demands of children with severe difficulties, there was an announcement, and I hope that we will see it in the next law, not only the increase in compensation but also the decommissioning in the sense that their compensation depends on the working status of another parent and that it is limited in use only to 8 years. Life. That's it. The law has some sort of step, but we expect more from the other one. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119944	Thank you, thank you. At the end of today's debate, State Secretary Željka Josic will address us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119945	Here's my thanks to the chairman. Thank you all for the debate. Thank you for your constructive discussion. Thank you for your constructive suggestions. I'll look back on just a few comments. You've all touched demographic restoration and you've all been actively involved in it, and thank you for that. What we need to know is that negative demographic trends didn't happen yesterday or happened overnight, but one whole decade has actually happened, and what's important is to point out that birth is not only going to solve demographic, negative demographic trends, but we have a whole series of different policies that have to be linked to this. What we have forgotten is that we are an old population, more than 20% of our population is over 65 years old, but also a part of the population has lost migration by becoming an EU member. So what we have to do in demographic terms is one part that we do through this Law which can't be the only measure that will encourage it, but can be one wheel in a chain, but also through a whole series of other policies that are related to education and the labour market and housing. I will also look back on this final comment by my colleague, MP Glasovac, that we have not evened all parents or persons equal to parents. We have also made this very clear through these amendments and additions to the Law through Art. 2, but also in art. 5 in 6 and what is very important, we have aligned with the existing and regulatory law in the Republic of Croatia with the Family Law and with special regulations. Many of you have also referred to children with developmental difficulties, I do not think it should be repeated that the primary system of social care is the system that cares about it. In this Law there are parents who care and use leave for children with severe developmental disorders, which is prescribed until the age of 8, but what we as a state and as a government want to do and what is really done through various legal regulations and in the field of education is resolved through regulations, that these children have the right to participate in both primary education and pre-school education. I will point out here once again, we have touched preschool education many times, the founders themselves are those who are just improving the quality of preschool education and education can significantly help these children and not get away from their peers. So it is not only support that will help but a whole series of services that can and must be available to our families, both for those who have children with developmental difficulties and for those who have healthy children. The other thing that has been mentioned is about the infringement provisions, everything that stands in this Law and each of the prescribed rights, each of the prescribed rights, of course, is subject to the infringement provisions if employers don't respect them and I think we've worked it out very closely. As we quickly came out of the framework of this Law, we also touched the Law on Labour and Family Law and a number of other regulations, which just indicates that this is not such a simple topic and that we need to discuss it inter-resortly. In fact, contracts at a certain time, the work contracts are now also amendments and additions to the Labour Act in progress and I believe that much better solutions will be found, and as regards the termination of pregnant women themselves, this is also prescribed by the Labour Act through the infringement provisions, as well as the return of women themselves from their maternity or parental leave and non-quality solutions after their return by employers. Here, I'd like to finish this. Clearly, the Law is complex, a new Law needs to be drawn up and we have not given up on it, however, this Law is done and it is our urgency to get a law that will be much easier to implement, but the same quality for our users. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119946	Thank you. You can just stay, we have a replica of a colleague named Sabine Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119947	Ma'am. Josic, I agree that kindergarten and school support should also be provided for children with difficulties, but this will not solve the problem of parents with greater difficulties, i.e. with severe developmental difficulties and does not justify the fact that there remains a legal restriction that they can use their right until the age of 8 of their lives because unfortunately, unlike children who have no difficulty, there are only bigger problems for parents when children go to school, with all the effort where they have to drive and all the challenges they face, they unfortunately do not fear how children grow up but very often become more demanding and increasingly difficult for themselves. So much so I think it's another additional argument for going that way to abolish that measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119948	Thank you. Here, you can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119949	Like this. As far as, yes, this Law and the framework of this Law, respected MPs, the very clear right is extended and there is no time limit, especially after the 8th year. And as for those children who are not within this Law and who have much more difficult difficulties in the Social Care Act, another form is prescribed, which is the parent-teacher.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-12-0.u119950	Thank you. Here you go. I'm closing this debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions on this agenda point. Not yet, don't be in a hurry. Just stay a little longer.
