ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u82979	Mr Davor Dretar will be the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u82980	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the Croatian public. The past night about 3 hours after midnight, an unknown perpetrator says a news report or more in Novak Street, in the Dubrava area, damaged the ATM with the aim of making money. In the past two months, the same or similar attacks on ATMs have taken place on the Zagreb neighborhoods of Trnsko, Ravnice and Sveta Klara in Donji Laduc near Zapresic, in Klinč Seli, in Osijek and Rijeka. So eight attacks in two months, once a week. It is a serious threat to the security of all citizens especially those who live near the ATMs. Now let me remind you of April 23rd last year. Here we have brought amendments to the law on the protection of monetary institutions where we were just dealing with ATMs. I will read to you only that we have voted here and for what we have raised our hands for and what is currently a valid law. Internal ATMs, so those inside banking offices, are protected by, among other things, the electrochemical protection system whose activation is permanently marked and destroyed by banknotes with a prominent sign of the destruction and colour of money when attempting to break into an ATM. The same thing applies to external ATMs, so for those set up on the ground floor of residential buildings, on frequency public surfaces, bus stations, etc. So here we passed the law that banks have to change existing ATMs and put those that have protection electrochemically. What does that mean? When someone tries violently to break into an ATM device that is inside will automatically paint to destroy bills, or make them unusable. Here, in the transitional and final provisions of the same law, we said that monetary institutions must establish already mentioned electrochemical protection measures within three years, and that protection must be implemented so that, primarily in the first year, one third of the total number of external ATMs must be resolved. What we're seeing here shows either that the banks haven't done their job or that an organized group of criminals has very good information about what ATMs they have, which ATMs don't have electrochemical protection regardless of their external markings. I remind you once again we are here with full rights, of course we agreed on that, said yes. Such a law should be passed because the electrochemical protection of ATMs prevents potential criminals from attacking with explosives, and of course we raise the safety of all citizens living near the ATMs. As far as we see another law that is either not implemented or not implemented at all, we must ask again, and we will also put it in the form of a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Finance and to the respected Mr. Marić, please provide us with information on the number of ATMs in which Croatian monetary institutions have installed the already mentioned and legally prescribed protection mechanism, so that we can see who in this country cares about the security of citizens or the security of someone's billions that we know very well that every year Croatian citizens go to the name of various fees in the banking sector. Just imagine how people feel when at 3:00 in the morning under their window, they're blowing up. When we say explosions, of course, it needs explosives. It's something you certainly can't buy at the market, something you can't buy in wholesale or in the nearest Kemoboya or whatever those stores are called. Who and how does he get explosives on the black market? What kind is it? Surely the Croatian police can find out very quickly. We have one of the best forensic centres in the world, I believe that our experts will establish it and then, of course, the police will go some way that could lead them to a solution to this issue. But mostly, I repeat once again by insisting on the implementation of the law here, we could, perhaps not reduce, but I am sure to prevent these cases, cases where people in the deaf times of night are placed under windows by explosive devices and seriously disrupting the safety of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83038	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian healthcare system is unfortunately one big patient and regardless of the covid-19 our health system has thousands of other diseases to be addressed immediately. January 15th is marked in Croatia on the 15th day of mimosa, National Day of Fight against Cancer Doors of the uterus. In the case of a Member The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stands everyone has the right to a healthy life, each is obliged as part of their powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of health, people, nature and the human environment. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5. In addition, the Health Protection Act stands for every person has the right to health care and the possibility of achieving the highest possible level of health. Local and regional self-government units shall ensure and ensure and organise health care in their area. I will not enter the following articles of the law, but I will ask myself, is health care really equal in all areas of the Republic of Croatia for all residents, is it available, is it timely? The Pope's test results are six to seven months in Vukovar. The papal test is a preventive test to detect early uterus cancer, or changes that would lead to the development of uterus neck cancer that can be successfully treated if detected in time. A simple and cheap preventive search that can mean life or not. If you wait six to seven months to find what could have changed in your wife's health? If he's lucky, a little. But what if the Pope's test report was suspected of malignant change? What do you say to a woman, what's her prognosis, who's going to be responsible if the disease spreads further, and ends up with a fatal outcome for a patient? gynecologists in the offices have a contract with the HZZ and are obliged to act under the contract. The HZZO decides which laboratory will process certain samples, but should also, in a particular area in cooperation with the ministry, identify a network of healthcare professionals needed in this area to ensure equal and timely access to healthcare. The resolution ministry and HZZO shall determine and approve the specialisations necessary in a specific area with agreement with local and regional self-government. It is a sad question of health in this case and a political issue, and it is a pity that no one cares until it is found in the skin of the patient itself. After a series of memos sent to the address of the Vukovar hospital, HZZO, the Ministry of Health, the doctor’s response to the primary gynaecological office says be patient because the doctor’s specialization will come by the end of 2023 and then it should all work better. We knew that the cytologist who worked a long time ago at the Vukovar hospital was over 65 years old. And he's been working on the extension of the contract for a long time. Wasn't it necessary to find a resident when the doctor turned 60? If we know that the specialization lasts for 5 years.? What kind of planning and strategy is being implemented if we allow such neglect of needs in a particular area. Since 2020. The Republic of Croatia has received some funding from the EU, specialisations should be financed as a national training plan, but the programme has not been implemented. When we know the legal constitutions of the provisions, the provisions of the Health Protection Act, as well as the obligation of the state, we ask ourselves, are the people who have received the trust of the citizens really up to their jobs? And what they do or rather don't do, while the health system collapses patients should be patient. Every employee in Croatia pays a monthly contribution of 16.5% of gross salary. These funds are being transferred to the Office of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and a number of administrative staff are being paid from the register as the population is leaving for the very protection of the population, apparently only a small part. Casualty, confidence without foundation, ignorance, and especially lack of respect for advice from the field leads to the collapse of the health system. We have the highest mortality rate of chronic non-infectious diseases, and malignancies. With such an organization and the answer to our patience, the situation will not change. As individuals, we cannot influence whether we are going to get sick, but as a system, we can affect the effectiveness and speed of the search, thus preventing the healing disease from turning into incurable with fatalities. Because tomorrow it could be our mother, our wife, our daughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83098	Thank you. Mr. Franco Vidovic will be the position of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83099	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, on July 15, 1880, the Dalmatian Parliament decided to build a new large hospital in Sibenik. The construction began on August 16, 1881, on June 24, 1883. The village hospital of Šibenik then spread to 48,000 m2, with 9 pavilions, and the staff from the old first hospital were led by the director of Dr. Eugene Galvani. After 139 C.E. The hospital is still in the same position in the same function, only people change. Given that Sibenik General Hospital is gravitated by the entire Sibenik-Knin County, and that the entire county has been tourist-oriented for a long time now in spite of occasional renovations and upgrades, the current hospital is organising work under difficult conditions. Here in the first row former Health Minister Rajko Ostojić and my friend is also a witness to that if I am not mistaken, we were at the opening of a new operating room together. For her work, the hospital was rewarded with the praise of the president of the Republic of Croatia in '91. Award of the city of Sibenik 2017, prize of Sibenik-Knin County 2003 and Charter of the Republic of Croatia 2017. In the past two centuries, the Sibenik hospital has changed its name 16 times, but it has never changed the high quality of work and a caring attitude toward patients. Because of the reputation that she enjoys and the expertise of her employees and modern equipment, many patients from nearby counties prefer to come to her than to her home hospital. Finally, representatives of the government, the city of Dr. Zeljko Buric, as well as the mayor of Sibenik-Knin County, Dr. Marko Jelic agreed on the need and necessity of building a new General Hospital and needed any assistance on the road. It is a demanding project that is difficult to implement without the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which the city of Sibenik already has spatial-planned documentation and within its reserved location for the construction of a new hospital in Sibenik. Sibenik and the county needs a 21st century hospital, and my intention is to sensitise the Croatian public to support us in order to improve our citizens' health standards in Sibenik-Knin County. The new hospital has already been promised on several occasions by previous county and state authorities. Unfortunately, to this day, things have not moved from place. But since this time there is unity between the city and county authorities around the implementation of this project, that my colleagues from Knin Anja Simpraga, Josip Begonja from Drnis, Branko Juričev-Martinchev from Vodice, Hrvoja Zekanovic, as well as myself from Sibenik, gathered on the project. So different colors. I believe we will all succeed in our cause together. I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health to support us in implementing the new hospital project primarily in the interest of our citizens. What's important is to point out that this project is multidimensional. We, as you know in Sibenik-Knin County, also have a general hospital in Knin which, as part of this project, also needs to be scaled in the future for its purpose to be combined within this project and to serve to the best extent possible for our citizens gravitating Knin and its surroundings. On the other hand, leaving the existing site in the city centre of Sibenik, which is a tourist town, opens a vast space of some fifty thousand square meters for some future projects either from the private sector, or from the public sector. Therefore, I think that this project certainly deserves the attention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it certainly deserves and support and that it will be implemented in the interest of the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County, the town of Sibenik, and that it will undoubtedly be given by Željko Buric and Mr. Mayor since Dr. Željko Buric comes himself from the medical brand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83100	Thank you very much. And now it is Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic's turn to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83168	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic publicly swears to fight corruption and zero tolerance in any form of corrupt action or corrupt practice. However, yesterday he reacted quite fearlessly to the allegations of former employees of a state-owned company that was very argumentative and, apparently, with solid evidence revealed that the entire state-wide peak was soaked in heavy corruption. The prime minister who publicly praises his government's efforts to combat a corrupt monster would at the very least expect me to invite all competent state bodies to establish and condemn all irregularities and to perpetrators of the most severe penalties. Instead, the prime minister called all these allegations of a single whistle, whose facts and evidence had not yet been warranted by a pure heifer and a haranger, and that it was an unfounded accusation, which I have found by asking questions about in those ministers and other high-ranking officials whose actions are called hard corruption. So since the prime minister has panicked so much from a single woman's statements, we really need to ask ourselves, where would he run this time if he were really more like that, those brave ones who won't get scared, would not give up on organised political crime. And indeed, the real political question is what would happen if the State Real estate mixing affair really triggered the rights of haika and haranga. Because what's a hack? By checking the meaning of this concept on the Croatian language portal, I have found that there is an organized prosecution of game or pests. So I'm asking you if the vermin aren't the ones who, under the protection of party cards, share state-owned apartments and state-owned premises as if they were their private property without the obligation to pay rent and rent and even direct costs. So should we not really organise such perpetrators of illegal activities and malfeasance? And what's a haranga? Well, the Haranga historically marked a solemn speech held in front of a gathering. The ceremony was already held by Maja Djerek in front of the entire Croatian public, she announced that she would be consistent, persistent, unwavering with one single motive and the desire for Croatia to become a legal state and state of order. This solemn speech should now be supported and delivered by representatives of competent institutions, especially law enforcement bodies whose reactions should not wait too long. And then this same solemn speech, the Harangu should be supported by all Croatian citizens in the next parliamentary elections whenever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83169	Thank you, too. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will hold the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83241	Gracie... President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tres facium collegium is said to be a colleague of Radolović, I warmly welcome you to my colleague Ivanovic, colleague Raukar, and here is our Vice President of the Parliament. There's enough of us, we've got a quorum at least to argue if nothing else. Friends and colleagues, let's play a game called Who Wants to Be a Millionaire or How To Be a Millionaire. Who does the next statement belong to from the person I'm going to name? Keep the Republic of Serbia safe. You've brought so much emotion here now that everyone can envy you under a) Radovan Karadzic a convicted war criminal. B) Biljana Plassic is convicted of war crimes. Under c) Ratko Mladic, convicted war criminal or under d) Dragan Covic, leader of the HDZ BiH. Anyone would have thought that in the foundations of Republika Srpska, there was genocide, ethnic cleansing, murder, mass murder and persecution of Bosnian-Herzegovina Croats and Bosniaks so that only an angry war criminal or a large-serb nationalist could declare such things knowing what the foundations of Republika Srpska are. Such as could only be said by someone who wants nothing good to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone who says such a thing certainly does not want anything good to the citizens and citizens of Croatia, knowing that on behalf of the idea and such a Republika Srpska war against Croatia, that civilians and children were killed. However, colleagues and colleagues did not say this either Karadzic, Biljana Plavsic or Ratko Mladic, but HDZ's own Dragan Covic, who presents himself as a beacon of Croatia and a protector of the interest of Croats in BiH, and thus is represented by Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ in this country, Croatia. HDZs questioned the country's patriotism and patriotism because of much smaller things, but about Covic, not a word. No one to be blushed by shame, no one to yell at a traitor, no one to accuse him of equating the victim and the aggressor, the honorary doctor of the Zagreb University of Covic for the entire HDZ and right hand is a problem, nor when he legitimateizes a political entity lying on the bones of thousands and thousands of innocent civilians whose lives have been destroyed by war. Well, somebody's got to say it. If you keep quiet about it, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ are not much better than Covic, who you are with. I find this as a fact not as an invitation to shame because there is no shame in HDZ. Shut up Ante Deur, shut up Đuro Glogoski, shut up Klem, shut up Josip Djakić and shut up all kinds of state-depreciation stations and check the pressure in gas bottles. This speech is only here to tell you that we and the citizens see you too, how small and miserable you are in your hypocrisy, how hollow your stories about patriotism and patriotism are and how transparent the fact that for you from the HDZ, Croats from BiH are just jokers in your favorite game, the one I started this speech with, how to become a millionaire.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83319	It is now the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives and the esteemed representative Nino Rasdić on behalf of the Mosta.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83320	The collapse of negotiations in Neum, negotiations or pseudo-negotiation because negotiations require two sides that want to agree on something, and that is not the case here long ago, only naive ones are not aware of it, the latest is debacle of Plenkovic's foreign policy. In fact, representatives of Croats and Bosniaks in BiH were under the hat of the international community in Neum and should have discussed how to amend the electoral law in order to meet the rulings of both the BiH Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, so how to resolve legitimate representation, and at the same time the case of Sejdic and Finci. What we have been hearing and repeating for a year and after the assembly and on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia and in the media is that the Bosniak side does not want any agreement, that these on the other side are being dragged by, the time is passing, elections are getting closer and closer, elections will come in October, and that Croats will be politically eliminated, so that they will be chosen not only by a member of the presidency but will be able to fill a third of the Croatian people's home with their own people, so people who are not voted by Croats can't represent Croats, and then it's a political complete decapitation. Why is it a debacle of Plenkovic's politics? So because the Prime Minister and the foreign minister assure us that they are having intensive talks with our partners in the EU and especially those in the United States, they are sending strong messages, blah, blah, blah, blah, and in the end nothing, time passes, elections closer, the Bosniak side shows no desire to change that law in any way. This tradition of Croatia's lack of foreign policy, the tradition of half-dominatedness, the climate of the head, the referencing of foreign embassies, not making for the benefit of its own people has not been since yesterday. That's why I called Andrej Plenkovic that he's Mate Granic with his hair, that's the same story. Where do you think you're going? From Tonci Stanisic, one of the men from the camp, who was as ambassador to Sarajevo, boasted in an interview in "Freedom" that he first congratulated Zeljko Komsic on the election victory when he was forced to do so and said this might surprise you, but the primary interest of Croatia in BiH is not the position of the Croatian people but a stable and functional BiH. Great, it can't be more stable than the Serb-Bosnica without Croats. It's a simpler equation with 3 unknowns than with two. Here it was when the Croatian ambassador to Sarajevo. Should I mention what came out on WikiLeaks about the foreign minister and Jandrokovic telling the American Stuart about the Croats in BiH and their demands? Should I mention Mladen Bajic, who also referred at the US Embassy and what came out on WikiLeaks? Should I talk about Marija Pejcinović Buric, for whom a complete Croatian lobbying diplomacy has taken place for 6 months to get our wife on, at the head of the Council of Europe? Plenkovic puts it as a huge foreign policy success in order to reach a cold shower on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia when we referred it as the leaders of the Council of Europe asking whether the views of some of their officials are the Council of Europe's position i.e. on the abolition of the constituent peoples, Marija Pejcinović Buric sends us an answer in English that was as if written in the office of Bakir Izetbegović. Should I speak of the conclusions of the EU Council of 14.12 of a month and a half ago where Croatia has put amendments in place that do not require any bilateral blackmail, do not do what Bulgaria's Macedonia is doing but put on the Dayton constitutional categories, Dayton has prevented the war, as it is that it created the foundations of the state. Nothing, no amendments and they didn't prevent that conclusion. Here is the pathetic Croatian half-tronic cowardice foreign policy of this Mate Granić with a hairstyle known as Andrej Plenkovic. He acts as an anesthesiologist in the operation of political decapitation of Croats in BiH, he is an anesthesiologist. It drags them into the story that something will change in agreement with partners, time passes, political execution in the elections in 10 months is getting closer and closer, and of course nothing is happening because Croatia does not act as a sovereign state. Croatia must block and veto all documents both the EU and NATO pacts that go against the interests of Croats, whether the Croatian state, or Croats in BiH. But she doesn't. What does Dragan Ćović HDZ, BiH? Well, here's their last chance. Let them distance themselves from the politics of HDZ, Croatia and Plenkovic or be fully affected by what will happen in October, not that it Help the peasants, help. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83321	Mr. Rasputic, time. Thank you. Thank you. [[Accompanies Rasudiæ: I also urge three representatives from the diaspora to deny the support of this ruling majority...]] Thank you. [[Attack Radin:... which assists in eliminating Croats in BiH.]] Now it's happening, ma'am. Sanja Radolovic represents the position of the SDP Representatives' Club and should be the last if someone does not apply in the meantime, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83392	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. It is in progress that the reform of the water economy, i.e. the accession of public water service suppliers in service areas throughout the whole, throughout the whole of our beautiful and here I must admit that I was expecting that already one of the representatives, especially the mayor, the chief, who is sitting in HS, will warn of the great discrepancies of the regulations that are in progress and which is being passed, and it is really not clear to me that we can't make one legislative proposal, that one legislative proposal can't come from the proposings, and that it is in accordance with all the regulations that already exist in this area. So, for example, the Water Services Act in Art. In the 88th Regulation, all existing public water service suppliers in a particular service area are obliged to attach to the public water service provider established as a company of the acquirer by the Service Regulation, and the acquirer is obliged to accept the accession and to keep an eye on all within 6 months of the date of the entry into force of the Regulation. This would not even be disputed, we could even say that the work is fine because of what certain savings will be achieved, but the first thing is clear to us that the system is fully centralized now, so there is no word of decentralisation, and it is very interesting that the letter that these days received from the Croatian Ministry of Resorship, all public service suppliers who say that we note that the Water Services Act prescribes that business shares in the company are determined according to the status of the acquirer and the reserves of the company of the acquirers and the companies that are being attached, take care now of this, on 31 December 2018, and that the accession is carried out with the number of employees which cannot be greater than the number of employees on 31 December 2018. At first we thought maybe they were missing dates, so we checked because obviously the disproportionate from 2018 to 2022, I don't know who it's clear to. Even first-class economic school students know that when you take over a company to assess the value of a company is done in a very clear way, and that is the net book value, not therefore the state of capital and the reserves of a society without depreciation, without property, without profits and other accounting indicators. But it is even more controversial towards our government, according to our resolution ministry, according to Croatian waters, it is obvious that life ended on December 31st 2018, 4th. There are no and they are now asking all public service suppliers, of all the water lines in Croatia to lock the situation back in 4.g. and what will happen to all these people who are employed after 31.12.2018, will these people end up on the road? It is very interesting that none of the HDZ mayors, mayors, mayors, do not complain, all received the same letter. Then let's put it this way, as we say in Istria, the Shotobanko through our colleagues in the opposition, so you run it and tell them it's not normal, how we can connect to the final state of 2018, now we're 2022, there will be a lot of constitutional lawsuits. It is already clear from everything that is trying to do with this regulation and this law. And it's very interesting, you yourself know that the Prime Minister and the Minister herself are grateful for how many billions of Euro funds will be available, especially for agglomeration projects. And it is very interesting that they believe that these agglomerations can apply for funding from eu funds when property legal relations will not be resolved, we are just returning to the beginning of this merger of public water service suppliers. So it is evident that the government, this time too, the Resort Ministry and Croatian Water, had enough time to prepare, the regulation was in public consultation, they received warnings from the field profession, from those who work with these services every day, with these activities and did not listen again. It should also be noted that they did not comply with the basic criteria when determining the service areas and that they completely disregarded the criteria of 2 million cubic metres of water delivered. Thus, as many as 6 water - service areas could be established in Istria County, only 2 were released.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83393	Thank you, too. Ms. Maja Grba-Bujevic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about a public health campaign today. On the eve of the Red Dress Day, or the day of the women’s stroke campaign, there are important things to talk about. The public health and educational campaign Red Dress Day was launched to raise awareness of the stroke in women who were under-recognized, under-exploited and undertreated in that population. The campaign began in 2002 in the United States, and is now being conducted in more than 50 countries around the world. The campaign's trademark is the female force in the red dress at the same time fragile and powerful, and perfectly illustrates the mission of this action. I've prepared a security sign for you on the way out, so you can have it if you want to join this campaign. The main goal of raising the action is to raise public awareness of the specificities of stroke in women, to encourage women to care for their health, to warn of the devastating consequences of neglecting symptoms and the need to change their lifestyle. In the Republic of Croatia, the action began three years ago, organised by the Croatian Medical Assembly of the Croatian Neurological Society. It has caused great interest not only in Zagreb but also in the entire Republic of Croatia so that the campaign undoubtedly gets national character with the media recognizable hashtag Wears red that invites everyone to wear something red in February and thus provide support. The stroke is the second cause of mortality in Europe, and Croatia is in the sixth place of 34 European countries by death from stroke, 60% of which is women or when translated into numbers last year, it was 2.830. The estimated number of all new cases of stroke in the Republic of Croatia is around 15,000 a year. This is a significant number since today we know that almost 80% of strokes can be prevented by a healthy lifestyle, by identifying the present risk factors, and by treating them. Yet, every 5th woman gets some form of stroke during life, and each year the stroke kills twice as many women as breast cancer. In women, the risk of stroke is still underrated and often unrecognized due to the specificity of the clinical picture and sexually specific risk factors. Therefore, prevention is certainly the main objective of the campaign, but so is education with awareness of the symptoms of stroke and rapid response because it is important every minute to survive and reduce disability. An easy to remember logo designed in a public health campaign in the primary prevention of stroke is a shortcut to GROM. That's easy to remember. This word hides the most typical symptoms of a stroke such as speech disturbances, inability and poor hand or leg control, mouth position in a twisted smile, means that in the shortest time it is necessary to call emergency medical attention to no. 194. Every minute for the reaction is important because the sooner the diagnosis of a stroke is diagnosed, the more likely the treatment is. The 4th Croatian Red Dress Day has already organized public performances of prominent experts in various media, educational lectures at universities and various institutions, professional gatherings, of course online. The campaign developed educational promotional materials, infographics, lenses, jumbo posters, all with the aim of raising awareness of the possibility of stroke in women. Public Health Campaign Red Dress Day is supported by all relevant stakeholders not only in the health system but also in politics, but also in the general public. Let's keep going that way. Due to all of this, let us raise awareness of cerebrovascular diseases in women, but also in men with one more thanks to Croatian Neurological Society for this extraordinary campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83478	Thank you very much for the subject you've presented, thank you very much. Mr Zeljko Lenart will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u83555	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here I would like to talk about a problem of agriculture and what is waiting for us. I know it doesn't matter to many, but soon it will be important for everyone and everyone will know what the problems that have destroyed Croatian agriculture have brought us to what I have already said more than once to hunger. Right now, we're very, very close to not having enough food. What is currently happening in Croatian agriculture, which has been destroyed by poor policies led by various governments and, most of all, by the government which has led us to the fact that all agricultural production has failed, milking, livestocking, pig farming, vegetables, fruit growing, and that not to mention further, fishermen have their problems, they cannot compete with Europe, they have old ships, but what has kept agriculture so far has been warfare in the upcoming sowing of huge problems. The artificial fertilisers have accumulated more than 300 percent. Why does it matter? Because the processing you have to make, the seed material you have to buy, the seed law and the fruit material that we recently brought us to commit, pesticides must be used for protection against diseases, weeds and pests, processing i.e. The combination you have to do, the only thing you can save on, and that's exactly what's most expensive is fertilizer. By saving on fertilisers, it means automatically next year at least 20% lower yield, and then in the coming years, an even lower yield because the fertility of the soil will fall. When I said here that Petrochemy was supposed to stay heavily state-owned, then many of me laughed because now that agronomist is talking about what he knows about Petrochemy. But we have come to have a very insecure market for artificial fertilisers. From my private knowledge Petrochemy has empty warehouses, it started working the other day, and it is questionable that production that often turns out to be finished. Some companies that produce fertilisers in Italy and the world have also stopped because of the high price of gas. I know that the rich countries of Europe will take care of their farmers first, but I also know that our government will not take care of its farmers because it does not matter to her, it does not matter to her, it has shown by its policy. Then, mention is made of farmers' requests for help, aid from 1,000 in crops that will be 2 and a half times more expensive is nothing. Many people will give up production and although we are not self - sufficient, we will be even less self - sufficient. The machines picked up, an old tractor that cost three years ago. 15,000 euros, the same 3. The old one today costs 25,000 euros, they collected spare parts, oil is more expensive than twice as much as last year, more expensive labour that is not available in agriculture. Agriculture even though it is in big trouble now comes into problems that we probably won't be able to solve for at least 20 years. if we don't approach in a meaningful and scientific way. Here today, in the previous law, everyone is calling for science. Who in agriculture calls for science? I have not heard in any law that ruling calls for science and that they use science in the development of agriculture but that farmers are left to themselves to adopt knowledge that they often do by themselves and often are not adequate. Climate change that is also ahead of us, droughts, large quantities of rainfall, large winds, all that will affect the production of agricultural producers that will be smaller and smaller, the losses will be growing and more and more difficult to return to what is invested. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Marija Vukkovic to at least remove VAT for those who are not in the VAT system, but to abolish both the re-production of machinery and fuel because it is the group that is most hit by all that is happening in Croatian agriculture. I hope he listens to what I've told them, even though I don't have much hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90077	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work, please take your seats, a little bit just to be quiet so we can work. First point: - Report on the effects of the implementation of measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 September to 31 December 2021. The applicant shall be the government and, on the basis of the conclusion of the HS, it shall be adopted at its 4th session of 4 December 2020. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. With us here is the Honorable Minister of Health, he will give us an additional explanation, but before that we have requests for a break. Let's go in a row. He's my first colleague. Come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90078	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Secretary. I think that everyone in Croatia, everyone in this room, we hope that the omicron and what is happening these days is that light at the end of the tunnel that will lead us out of the agony in which we are now 2. However, doctors, especially those in infectious and other hospitals who face covid patients daily, say it is still too brave to argue. In Croatia, ten people die every day. Unfortunately, according to statistics in the last week and the worst in the world by the number of deceased by population. What does that mean? This means that at this point in time when that light is on at the end of the tunnel we need clear guidance, we need clear measures so we don't fall on the road where we've often and too often worked hard and we didn't know where we were going to go. Dear colleagues and colleagues, such measures as the one where it was announced and asked all students to be tested so that tomorrow it would be said that if someone is not tested for anything, it is not the way. We need clear and concrete messages today, from a clear plan of how to raise the fissure at the last minute, the light methods that will tell people at which point we will all be free from the masks that we have to wear every day and other measures that will ensure that at the end of this time that we all hope our results are not worse. And by the end of Mr. Minister, we asked you when voting the budget, we talked about it, speak to your colleagues, secure funds for those who face covid patients in covid wards each day, who are exposed to the patient's worst pressure to provide adequate assistance. It won't be possible without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90079	My fellow coat of arms, thank you. Now it's time to take a break, now it's time for my colleague Pavliček, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90080	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman. We are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to point out once again that here it is in the last almost 2.g. Each country struggles in its own way as it knows and washes against the covid pandemic, and that fight must be effective should be primarily credible. It's a slogan that's often ruled by HDZ, but this headquarters is all just untrustworthy. Let's remember hundreds of decisions that were made, which were contradictory, which you killed yourself. Let us remember dozens of decisions that have had no effect, let us remember dozens of decisions that you yourselves have not followed, and today one of the worst decisions has proved to be a decision to introduce a covid certificate that has not produced any effect in protecting the spread of the pandemic, and now you are getting into our children. By introducing tests for all primary school children, you create additional psychosis both in children and in parents because it is scientifically proven that children are less ill and that the symptoms are very mild. But in order for everything not to remain in criticism, we will be here today, or starting to collect signatures, that the next week at the debate we have a bill of law that all decisions of the headquarters must be confirmed by the HS, a legitimately elected body, and not by some politically colored body such as the headquarters of civil protection. So I call upon all my fellow MPs to sign this initiative because only HS can confirm what the headquarters decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90081	Now she will speak to her esteemed colleague, Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90082	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club in order to get back to the fundamental question that we have to answer together here in HS today, and what is it that we do now? And in that sense, our proposal is only one, let's cancel the covid certificate. We are not going to pretend that we have an epidemiological measure that in practice has proved completely ineffective, costing the economy too much. In a situation where we give millions to the testing of civil and public servants, and we witness enormous inflation, and we could use the money far better. You say you care about the protection of the population, and then why you haven't used your own test results in HZZ vaccinated and unvaccinated personnel that have shown you that also vaccinated personnel are less than able to carry the virus, so you have, for example, 69 surgeons in OR four who are not being tested, who have been vaccinated and who have freely transmitted the virus. After you learned that you decided to do your own research, test everything at the hospital entrance and all the medical staff to protect the patients? Not because you've never conducted epidemiological but purely political measures. It's also now partial as if the berries you're reading are being tested by a certain part of the population without any epidemiological effect you're greatly burdening our budget which is already empty at the moment of such inflation. There is only one question, which we do for Croatia only one solution, to abolish the covid certificate, an anti-epidemiological discriminatory measure that we cannot afford anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90083	Thank you very much. Stanka's been approved, so we're going to request four, colleague Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90084	Thank you very much, dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking nicely for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. Corona is a fact, a fact that is in the world, a fact that has made the whole world live differently, a fact that makes us live differently. And look and look around us, each country has decided to take its own path and every country has decided to look for its own way. What was always difficult with us were those waves. I often had a feeling, they announced that the crown was coming in waves, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth wave was coming, and as if it was lying on the beach on the towel, watching the sea grow, the wave coming, and then when that wave hit us, it took away the towel and flooded everything then we were surprised. It's one of the problems, but the answer we need to give today, at one point the minister was there and commented that part of the population died with the crown and part of the crown. What is the fact is this huge mortality in Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, every day in Croatia, either from the crown or with the crown dying between one, one bus people is just a matter of whether it's a small bus, is that bus upstairs. Why? For what? These are the answers we need to get, so the gain of dry answers, to turn this into politicizing, so two things are why do we have such a small fissure? Is there any more we can lift that fissure because I have a feeling that the one who decides to vaccinate has been vaccinated and will be vaccinated for the third, fourth and fifth time, and the one who hasn't decided to vaccinate either this debate or anyone who will convince him that he needs to be vaccinated? So that's one of the questions to be answered. The other day in the Spaladium arena one person was vaccinated all day, and the other answer is, why do we have so many deaths?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90085	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90086	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members. I'm taking a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc or we're looking for a 10 minute break to review this report again in light of the tragic fact that from the last time we talked here, which was the end of October, we've lost more than 5,000 of our fellow citizens and citizens, so in less than 3 months, we're in the ninth place by the death of a million people in the world, with a tendency to deteriorate. So we're climbing that ladder when all the other organized countries fall because they have a vaccine, and we're climbing. We're after the mortality of this mild oxidon as we beat him first in the world. We're in January, January 2022. lost 1,400 citizens and citizens, of which 80% were not vaccinated. I really want to know who's gonna take responsibility for it. In Croatia, more than 51 to 52,000 people died in pre-pandemic times per year for 10 years. All of our old and sick Croats who are now dying from the pandemic were the same old and sick and in 2019, 2020, we lost 56 and some thousand people, and in 2021, in the year in which we have the vaccine, we lost 63,000 people, so 11,000 people died more than in prepandemic times. Who will take responsibility, headquarters, you ministers, Prime Minister Plenkovic? It's a question that I'm interested in getting an answer on him today because all the points, indeed, all the points at which you've had the opportunity to act and turn this tragedy to the national one that happened to us, you've unfortunately missed. And I'd just like to appeal to invite all the MPs today to a dignified debate because they'll be watching us from the families of those who lost loved ones of these nearly 14,000 people who died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90087	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90088	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club. Starting from the basic IDS policies that human freedoms, especially freedom of choice, are the cornerstones of all freedoms, and that they can only be limited if it is really necessary and scientifically supported and coming from the IDS's position that professional science must still be in the first place I want to invite all of us here today to reason and responsibility. To reason and responsibility to the citizens we represent and to the country we represent. And so far, these almost two years have happened. politicizing the whole story and the national headquarters some year and a half ago with contradictory messages, which confused the public and created mistrust in institutions, but also on the other hand politicising the whole situation by those who tried to gain their cheap political points by fear of people and frustration. I call once again to all of us not only today but also to the future from the ruling, from the headquarters, the ministers from you, to the opposition clubs to responsibility and reason. This is actually supposed to be one unique story and I hope we're all on that level together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90089	The apartment is approved. Now they're going to speak to a colleague of Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90090	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. I have repeatedly pointed out in this assembly that governments around the world are doing their decisions more harm than benefit their citizens. Unfortunately, it's true, especially in the pandemic. So, not only in the economy, but in health care these measures are actually counterproductive especially by introducing Covid certificates and it is now seen around the world, according to many indicators and people rightly rebelling. They say they've had enough. However, we see in Croatia that enough attention is not given to vulnerable groups. So, if we really had a low cleavage of those who are most vulnerable and threatened, and now it's being put on I don't know exactly why the emphasis on children is up to 5 years old. So, Mr. Capak I also got your answer to the question of many parents about self-testing and similar now that you've introduced for children and there's no study we don't even know what will be the effects on children. We know that the victims are certainly these pandemics, their growth will be marked by these measures unfortunately. On behalf of all of us, the EU ordered 4.6 billion doses by 2023. So 10 doses for each person including children in the EU. So the question is, who is this supposed to vaccinate? Obviously, there's no parent's interest in vaccinations, so I don't know where the excess of that vaccine will end. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90091	And this break has been approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90092	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes in order to maybe force the minister to think for 10 minutes about those who, regardless of all our recommendations, look up, or don't look up at the end of watching those deaths already almost here for 2 years. They're doctors, doctors, nurses and technicians. In other countries, they get serious salary supplements because they're facing something that hasn't been seen yet, so we can say since World War II, and we have here meaning workers and workers working in practically regular conditions, falling off their feet, no more motives, talking about that they've come to a burnout anymore, and it doesn't even make sense because they've been warning about it for two years. We have here suggested that if they don't have money for some normal and valuable, dignified addition, they'll be allowed to do an unfettered job internship. When we received a negative opinion from the government, you replied to us from the ministers and your government that it was about an unfettered internship that was only given with some kind of professional lobby for some specific places to explore. What kind of research was done in the Homeland War, we asked a question, so no research was clear that the benefits of work were given because of the situation people were in. Then you also said that it was a temporary state almost 2 years ago is no longer a temporary state of the moment is really when it is necessary to say that the benefited work experience is the last thing we can do for healthcare professionals and workers and I would ask you to seriously consider it once again after 2 almost years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90093	The apartment is approved. And let's go to the last request that's a respected colleague of the coat of honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90094	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleague Capak, the State Secretary would ask for a break on behalf of the HDZ for 10 minutes, in order to show once again that this pandemic is being managed wisely and thoughtfully, that the numbers are not only to be seen, that there should be always taken into account a lot of other elements affecting the real situation, that this country has put a lot of effort and this government in the purchase of vaccines, that we have allowed everyone to be vaccinated for free, that we have also allowed those who do not want to be vaccinated to be also free of charge, that Covid confirms it is absolutely necessary to keep it, not the invention of the Republic of Croatia but the whole of Europe. The abolition of Covid's confirmation in Croatia would leave us within our borders, and we want to be European citizens and travel where it leads us or business or habits. I think this pandemic should be seen within Europe, to be able to deal wisely with these past two years that are difficult. They are also difficult for healthcare professionals, but as the system collapses did not occur. There was a lot of preparation, and for this reason, of course, we had the tourist season we had, and we also had incomes that allowed us to live as much as possible in this epidemic as normal. So I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90095	Stanka has been approved, but we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the meantime. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90096	... Turn it off, thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] The Honorable Mr. President was injured in Article 238 is about words that actually hurt everyone's dignity, not just us here, but beyond. The dead who died of the Coronal virus aren't numbers, they're not numbers, they're humans, they're human fates that could and had to be avoided, and these are your words below each level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90097	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin. A fellow coat of arms you get a reminder regardless of what you tried to do under the violation of the Rules of Procedure to go with the content that is touching, but it was a replica of course no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90098	Article 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives, counterpart Grba Bujević is false. The budget is not your register from which you shared free testing but there are only tests paid for by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it was not so looked at for all but only for state and public servants, the others who wanted access to those institutions had to pay it out of their pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90099	Comrade Selak Rasludic, you know this is a warning and this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90100	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vujević, was injured by an article. The 238th demeaning parliamentary deputies because the measures taken are ineffective, mainly coviding certificates which are meaningless and medically unfounded, we see that many countries are abolishing and, this harmful decision is a covid certificate. For what? Because we see it's a financial collapse, we see where the prices go wild. Believe me, these covid certificates are so pointless that they'll get us into inflation, into an increase in prices, which we can see is true. and that they are medically inefficient. [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90101	Buddy Bull, you're getting a warning. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here are my colleagues, Mr. Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90102	Thank you, Mr. President. So colleague 238, colleague Grbin twists my words. I didn't say they were numbers but I said the numbers should be viewed within all the other elements that are monitored in mortality. That's what I said, and that's what I'm behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90103	You're getting a warning, too, because I gave my colleague a warning. What did you say? Nothing. Okay. Then we'll take a break, 10:00, and we'll continue for 10 minutes. It's 9:56 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] I will now call upon the Honorable Minister of Health, William Berosh, to give an opening presentation and present the Report. Here you go. I'm just asking you to hold the tiles in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90105	Dear President of HS, honourable MPs and MPs, I apologize in advance for reading quickly because it is not easy in 20 minutes to describe everything we have done in the past 3 months. Based on the conclusions of HS on the submission of the report on the effects of the implementation of the measure under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the Sars-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia, I am reporting to you on the effects of the implementation of measures for the period from 1 September to 31 December 2021. As in the previous period, the Staff respected the opinions and recommendations of health professions and epidemiological services and made a total of 40 decisions. In doing so, it was guided by the basic objective, the protection of people's lives and health, and in particular it was taken into account, that measures, as well as their intensity strictly corresponded to the needs of the given moment and lasted only as long as the circumstances required. The healthcare system adapted its activities to dynamics 4 and early 5th wave of epidemics, including reorganisation and an urgent response to the increase, and then a reduction in the number of patients suffering and hospitalised but also care for the continuity of providing health care to non-covid patients. During the reporting period, the strategic targets for the management of the epidemic focused on the implementation of new epidemiological tools, digital Covid certificates. In the healthcare system, the welfare system and then in other state institutions, with the aim of further preventing the spread of the infection. I would particularly highlight the fact that the EU's justification for digital Covid certificate has proved to be a universal tool in the fight against epidemic in all EU member states. The effectiveness of this safety measure has confirmed a number of studies showing that vaccinated persons are significantly less susceptible to infection than unvaccinated. Furthermore,... develop a severe form of disease and carry less infection to other people in the environment compared to unvaccinated people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our efforts are also aimed at vaccination with an additional dose, as well as further stimulating the vaccination of the first and second doses, etc. primary vaccination. We continue to carry out activities related to the identification, monitoring and monitoring of cases and treatment of patients with Covid-19 with a more severe clinical image. In the reporting period, Croatia was mostly in the lower half of the country by the rate of confirmed cases, which is in favour of the controlled epidemiological situation, given the dynamics of the epidemic, especially in relation to the emergence of a new variant of omicron that was currently rapidly spreading across Europe and the world. The growth of newly infected in the 4th and early 5th wave of epidemics was particularly reflected in the hospital system in which Covid-19 capacities were succesfully increased in most of the hospitals in Croatia, depending on the epidemiological situation in each county and the number of patients who needed hospital care. The main hospitalized patients continue to be unvaccinated citizens, which is also evident in the fact that the largest number of hospitalized patients is recorded in the counties with the slightest cleavage. These facts also call for the understanding and need to increase the number of credentials of citizens, mostly the older ones, which the Prime Minister, the members of the Government and I speak about on a daily basis. The new organisation of hospital work in 4 and at the beginning of the 5th wave of epidemics is the result of high fissure of medical staff in hospitals, the introduction of new security measures into the hospital system, acquired expertise and experience in previous waves of epidemics and well-organised system despite all the difficulties it faces. However, hospital work is not exclusively focused on treating patients with Covid-19. The emphasis is also on ensuring timely and continuous hospital health care, emergency and hospital care, and priority patients, oncological and other vulnerabilities of non-covid-19 patients in need of health care. According to the latest data requested, hospital institutions provide oncology patients with priority and no difficulties and no problems have been observed in reducing the implementation of preventive oncology programmes. However, following global announcements of the coming rise in cancer from the pandemic, we are also preparing ourselves for this challenge, and I have been warning of this potential problem of an oncology epidemic for some time now, as well as the problem of mental health. Therefore, to meet the World Cancer Day, I further appeal to all citizens not to miss the preventive checks they were invited to during the epidemic because timely diagnosis and treatment really save lives. The current needs for doctors, nurses and respirators and other medical equipment have been continuously monitored. The Health Ministry’s crisis headquarters has provided the required number of healthcare workers in due time, with a provisional schedule from home health institutions, in accordance with the needs of hospitals that record a large number of hospitalized patients. We are aware of the significant exhaustion of all health care workers who have been treating our citizens for almost 2 years on the first line of defense from Covida-19, therefore it is not surprising sometimes to have combustion syndrome and therefore to all healthcare professionals on the disposition of mental health professionals at the Institute of Public Health. Andrija Printar and psychologists of the Croatian Psychological Chamber. Given the increase in the number of patients at the end of October 2021. The health ministry sent instructions on re-activated covid-19 infirmarys at all health homes in Croatia. Furthermore, an analysis of the vaccination of citizens by county and municipality, particularly the elderly, pointed out the need to include patronage activities in the vaccination process in collaboration with selected family medicine doctors. From early September to 31 December 2021, valuable patronage sisters contacted 54,260 unvaccinated elderly, unfortunately only 18,916 agreed to vaccination. In order to achieve the greater proportion of vaccination based on the decision of the Minister of Health in the organisation and schedule of the work of selected doctors of family medicine in the network of public health services in order to carry out vaccinations of patients against covid-19 doctors of family medicine in the period from early November to the end of December, they contacted and vaccinated their older insurance companies, so the vaccination of older than 65g. increased by about 5%. With the arrival of a new variant of SARS-CV-2 virus of omicron with large numbers of daily newly infected, we also detected significant pressure on available test points, and based on the opinion and requirements of the profession, we expanded the testing facilities where this was only possible within health institutions. On 12 November 2021, the instructions to the health directors on the need for a rapid antigen testing organisation. It is given to doctors within primary healthcare to allow testing of rapid antigen tests for symptomatic patients. We have decided to further evaluate such additional engagement, and HZZO has made a decision on how to pay this test beyond the maximum amount of DTP funds. I thank my colleagues and colleagues for this additional contribution, and especially their significant role in edifying, informing and consulting patients about the importance of vaccination against coronary virus. In order to ensure the maximum availability of vaccines and vaccines, and on the basis of the shown interest of the Croatian pharmaceutical chamber in the vaccination process during September, 64 pharmacies were included, which eventually issued vaccination certificates. A total of 234,207 cases of infection were reported in the reporting period. Those persons were given a measure of isolation and their contacts of self-insulation measures. During the reporting period, a total of a million 415 thousand 166 doses of vaccines were spent, and as of 31 December 2021, 4 million 729 thousand 751 doses of vaccines have been spent since the start of the epidemic. By the end of the reporting period 55.68% of the total population and 66.33% of the adult population were vaccinated and the largest coverage was reached in the City of Zagreb. On 15 November 2020, HZZP, together with its Civil Protection Directorate, activated the number 113 as an emergency service centre for 112 providing information on self-insulation, vaccination, isolation, organisation and provision of healthcare, by-products and cross-border crossings. In order to treat patients with covid-19 diseases, Croatia has accessed the European Commission's joint procurement procedure for the treatment of covid-19 disease with a combination of monoclonal antibodies in the current procurement activities of all those on the market available existing medicinal products for the treatment of covids, which are molenupiravir and paxlovid. From the beginning of the epidemic to the end of the reporting period, HZZO paid more than 5 billion kuna from compulsory health insurance funds. Although it is a large number in the financial sense, it is important to note that this cannot be considered a cost but by investing in the health and treatment of our citizens, which ultimately reflects the success of other branches such as tourism, the economy and other business branches. At the same time, more than 133 million kunas were spent on special health care workers. All the more detailed information and the above indicators are contained in the report you received. As in the previous government reporting period, civil protection headquarters, the Ministry of Health and HZZ regularly report to the Croatian public and to all citizens on all scientific and professional confirmed facts important for making decisions on the protection of the health of citizens and the control of the spread of the epidemic. However, despite all the facts available about the efforts we are making to combat an epidemic in the media area, certain issues arise from opposition parties. In order to truly inform the public, I am also using this opportunity to answer some of them. With regard to the mortality of our citizens during the epidemiological period, we must be aware of the broader context and certain facts. I must stress that the death of our fellow citizens is an extremely tragic circumstance. But we have to say the following. First, we have a low cleavage despite the fact that vaccination has proven to be the most effective measure against hospitalisation of severe illnesses and fatal outcomes. Of the EU countries only in Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria, fewer people completed primary vaccinations than in Croatia. Secondly, we are a country that has an old population, and we are 7th in a row of 35 EU countries per section older than 65. That is, about 20% of the population over 65 years of age. Third, we have a high presence of risk factors such as excessive weight, smoking and alcohol consumption leading to a very high presence of the risk of death to the crown. Fourthly, the presence of high mortality was unfortunately recorded prior to the occurrence of the epidemic, especially in diseases which are also risk factors of severe covid-19 disease and therefore covid mortality. Fifthly, the mortality rankings at every country level would only make sense if all countries had equal mortality records, especially the death of covids. Therefore, data on the death outcomes of covida-19 according to which some compare countries on a daily basis are not about the final verified data and mortality of statistics, but rather about preliminary data which makes greater deviations possible compared to the different methodologies between countries, as the ISDS also points out. Sixth. From the current mortality that depends on the stage of the epidemic, whether we are on an upcoming or descending wave is far more important cumulative mortality since the start of the epidemic. Therefore, the comparison of current mortality among different countries at a different stage of the epidemic makes no sense. At the cumulative rate of death of a particular country in the environment are in a more unfavourable situation than Croatia, which is Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Montenegro and the Czech Republic. Seven. The number of deaths died compared to the number of infected is lower than the number of countries in the world, and is equal to the number of aircrafts for Europe as a whole. Eight. Among hospitalized patients due to omicron infection, there is an increasing proportion of subjects whose fatal outcome occurs due to another underlying cause of death while the positiveity of SARS COV-2 is a follow-up finding. What is important is if three basic parameters are observed, which is the proportion of the vaccinated, age of the population and the total mortality of the covida-19 then no EU country has a total mortality lower than the covida-19 and that it also has an older and weaker estimated population than Croatia. In fact, Hungary and the Czech Republic have a higher overall mortality rate than the covida-19 and a lower population and a better division than Croatia. Despite everything about the public space, we continue to hear political actors who flatly comment mortality in the epidemic, deny disease, deny the effectiveness of covid confirmation deny the effectiveness of vaccination and the importance of testing, and call for mass gatherings during the epidemic. As a man and a politician, I understand that we live in democracy and the time when everyone has the right to their own opinion, but as a responsible doctor at the head of the Croatian health system, I cannot and will not accept that half of the truth, and sometimes even the untruths of the citizens are led astray, persuaded by narrow and selfish behaviour and manipulated by them for the achievement of partial interests. The political game not only in the elections but also in the inter-election period should be played sharply, but honestly based on expertise and science. To use the health of citizens and nations not only is it not moral but it is certainly for condemnation. I would also refer to the alleged tactics with measures and COvid certificates. We must be aware that the epidemic is an extremely dynamic process that is not changed because of the government's interest or opposition, but because of a series of relevant factors affecting its course from the proportion of unvaccinated, newly infected, hospitalized and above all burdens of the health system. We don't need a referendum on covid certificates but a referendum on honesty. It is not patriotism but underestimation that is a populist step in public space and giving up to citizens. This is not the way of this government, and I believe most of you in the Parliament and leave the controversy for and against, let us act in the interest of our citizens together in the interests of the entire community. I can conclude that in this reporting period, despite the challenges of the fourth and the beginning of the fifth wave, we have brought solutions and taken measures and actions to ensure maximum protection of the health of all citizens, and have enabled effective treatment of all the patients, regardless of the critical remarks they have been, which have come from political opposition, opponents of vaccination and other stakeholders. I once again tell you in the assembly but also in all Croatian citizens that the fight with the covid is only obtained by common and scientifically based approach, vaccination and respect for epidemiological measures. The strength of the community is particularly visible at the level of the health system, which has shown under the greatest challenges all the strength of the profession, medical staff and the organization of which I am extremely proud, and there has been no scenario of the breakdown of the health system that has been called by many and some from this pay phone. With the strength and flexibility of our health system, the epidemic further highlighted another important fact, a direct link between public health and the health of the national economy, which clearly shows last year's tourist season and economic growth. Therefore, the health system is a key part of our country's progress mechanism before which reform steps are announced. The only way forward can be united together in order to preserve and strengthen the health system and the health of our citizens. Dear MPs and representatives on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose that this report be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90106	I thank the minister. We also have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure before we move on to replicas. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90107	Ministers, you have violated article 238 by demeaning parliamentary deputies by saying a number of false things. First of all, you're the ones who violated the measures. We can know on the Peljesk Bridge, in the ships in our Adriatic with an escalating star. You're the ones who went in need of masks in the premises, but you go in your watchbook without masks, hang out without masks. You're the ones who continue to justify pointless confirmations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90108	My fellow Bull, thank you very much, you're getting a second warning and please don't do it and I'm calling everyone else. There's nothing to do with any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The minister held an opening statement. It was perfectly correct. He's made his point, and these are pure abuses. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90109	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238 insults parliamentary representatives, all those who think differently and question the decisions of the Staff and their measures, their effectiveness. Often, the minister is urged that we should act together in the interests of the citizens. It's often referred to as community. Didn't you act in the interest of the citizens when you were at your clock without a mask on your face? Did Minister Banozic act in the citizens' interest when he was in the Spaladium arena without a mask on his face So this is one pure hypocrisy on your part and the accusing....../The Incursion President: You get notice number one and please don't do that. [[Break president: Coliček, you get...]] You say he insulted all those who think differently, and now you've offended all those who feel the same way. So how's that? So please, when you're arguing, at least try. We're one now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90110	Come on, please! Now let's go to the replicas. The first is counterpart Selak-Raspadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90111	Minister Beroš, you do not decide whether we need a referendum but whether we need a referendum is decided by Croatian citizens who have said we need a referendum. It's your democracy. And I will give you the opportunity to have a referendum of honesty and to show the Croatian public that you are dealing with facts and science, not political decisions. What exact parameters should be satisfied, so the number of patients hospitalized, the number of deaths, the number of infections or the burden of the health system in order to eliminate these measures? And the second question, your research has shown you that the vaccines are also transferring the virus. So the medical staff also, was infected that was vaccinated, and operated in operating rooms. Why didn't you use the results of this study to test all medical personnel and thus protect our patients, the most vulnerable social group and reduce mortality?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90112	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90113	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So I'm a little surprised by your attitude. Namely, your party's health strategists believe in vaccination, believe in Covid certificates and advocate scientific and professional approach. It's the only approach that can defend us in this pandemic. Furthermore, I personally tried to get you answers from the Ministry to your representative questions, not only because there would be no objection that they were late, but also because these answers were professionally justified and gave you the opportunity to study these answers and understand something from them. And secondly, yes, a study has been performed that shows that vaccines three times less transmit the virus to others. No one in the world, as far as I know, is there a colleague of Capak so he can confirm it, he hasn't tested all health care professionals because it's impossible and unnecessary. It's the profession that defines what to do and how to do. A full - time study has been carried out Confirmed our earlier position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90114	My colleague Selak Rasludic, a re-injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90115	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. The minister explicitly admitted to the Croatian public that he had no idea when and under what parameters the current measures would be lifted. Probably when HDZ adopts a new sunny day and another bridge is to be opened, and unvaccinated personnel are tested unlike vaccinated ones. If you can test all public officials, How can you not have the capacity to test all medical personnel? [[Intruder: colleagues Selak Rasudić, please.]] Don't make us laugh false arguments. [[Intruder: colleagues Selak Rasudić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90116	You are now getting a second warning and now unfortunately, I will announce that from now on I will be giving warnings already during the conduct of the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it is already a few apparent violations of the Rules of Procedure, intentional, consciously entering the replicas, and not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it simply destroys the debate, and now we will be giving warnings a little bit sharper. Now it's my friend Buric's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90117	Thank you, Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister Beros. I must stress that vaccination is certainly the greatest medical success of the 20th century and that it has saved the most human lives from any other medical intervention and that is the fact. What I must also mention is that the vaccine preserves life, health and head, that the evidence for this and 71% unvaccinated in the total number of deaths in the previous reporting period was 78%. I also agree with you that the abuse of disease for political purposes and propaganda is extremely, extremely dangerous and harmful to life and health, which can ultimately result in death. But the question I'm going to ask you concerns non-covid patients, non-covid procedures, especially those of the emergency, cancer patients, emergency operations, emergency procedures, [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90118	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90119	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and respected parliamentary MPs. Yeah. Everything you said, and when it comes to emergency, priority, necovid, cancer patients, vulnerabilities, that's the problem we encountered at the beginning of the epidemic. We've learned a lot in these two years, and a lot has changed since we first learned about this virus, and some variations have changed, new, more contagious, and these challenges have been met day by day, and we're dealing with them and we're responding to them. We are just stressing the entire time that, and I read in our report, that providing health care has become a priority to patients except perhaps in the first few months of the epidemic at the beginning of this virus's arrival. Then we didn't know what was waiting for us and it could have happened. But very quickly we detected that providing health care to other patients is extremely important, so my move from a few months ago was when I asked health care institutions about the status of their processing, oncology patients and others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90120	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90121	That Covid's confirmations are pointless and that the vaccinated are also transmitted to the infection, you confirm that. So, for example. With the Council who has been vaccinated, Covid has a certificate that can transmit the disease to those who have been tested, so freely in fact, it's legal to transmit the infection and other countries are already detecting these pointless Covid certificates. Not just from the aspect of this, medically, but from the aspect of the economy. We see what's going on. We see that medical personnel were not best protected because those who had Covid's confirmation, doctors, medical staff could have transmitted the disease to patients. You were supposed to protect that system, and you weren't. I have an example in the city administration of Sinja where the vaccinated person holding the measure has brought the disease and passed it on to everyone else. How about Covid's receipts? Organisation Vaccinate? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's what I'm curious about. Does he transmit the vaccinated infection with Covid's confirmation? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90122	A fellow Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90123	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable and respected parliamentary counsellor. I'd like to know which countries suspended Covid's confirmation? So tell me, and then we'll talk about it? I don't have that kind of information, except maybe Great Britain. So here's the deal. ... Covid's confirmation and I've been saying it since the beginning... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what I'm saying, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We say this from the beginning does not protect absolutely, does not represent absolute security but represents one optimal security given what is being invested. So, the price of testing, the process of testing itself is not demanding, and they provide certain safety and that the fact is that sometimes the vaccinated carry the infection to a far lesser extent. All of this has been taken into account in the protection of the health system, but you do not understand the following that doctors work with their patients in protective equipment, they are additionally insured. In those departments where there are patients with comorbidities and with special extra equipment. Therefore, the epidemiological waist is She did everything she could to protect the health system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90124	Here you go, colleague Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, distinguished associates, and here in the last two years since the occurrence of the crown of the virus in the world, 5 million and 700 thousand people have died. World Health Services, pharmaceutical companies are in a race to come up with a more high-quality vaccine for this disease to stop this pandemic. And as we can see, we have several kinds of vaccines that protect them, they reduce both the fatal outcome and the serious forms of disease, of course they're not ideal yet, but that's why I'm interested in how much more important it is to hear the percentage of those who are unvaccinated among the deceased and another issue of the US military research institute tests.../incomprehensible/... coronary viral vaccine means what would be for all forms, so at least they leaked information that should protect against all strains of so far known coronary viruses, so here it would be that it would be possible that world scientists have managed to make one vaccine better and would be more protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90126	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, that would be optimal and science and discipline will make further efforts to achieve such a thing. When, it's a very big question, and mainly in the context of the development of potential potential new variants when it's one race without end because a new virus comes, a new vaccine develops and so on. What we're lucky for as a world population is the fact that even the vaccines that are designed for earlier viruses of new variants react. Not in absolute amount because no vaccine protects within 100%, but protects us. They protect us mainly from severe illnesses and protect us from death. So it's an absolute fact that needs to be appreciated. The vaccine is what is the reach of civilization and what saves many lives and constantly repeats from April when the vaccine has become widely available because the government's efforts have obtained sufficient amounts of free vaccines, it is available to all and would preserve many lives that people were being vaccinated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90128	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90129	Your Honor, I have a simple question for you, Mr. Secretary. Do you know how many people today are suffering from lung cancer in Croatia or colon cancer or how many people have had a heart attack or how many kids today have had a carp? The answer is you don't know, but you know how many people are suffering from Covida-19 today. Not just you, but all of us together and Grandma Manda there in the back house, in the back alley, in the last village with us in Slavonia. I think there's only one psychosis. Isn't it high time to change the approach to this disease especially now that we have this omicron variant because it's scientifically proven that its symptoms are weaker, especially with regard to the fatal outcome. I'm afraid we're going to have a growing number of people who will end up on antidepressants and on psychiatric treatment without, no, we're ignoring all these other diseases that you've mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90130	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, life hasn't stopped, people are still getting sick. Unfortunately, children get sick too. At this point, I don't know how many people are suffering from lung cancer today, but I can find out. What I've been saying for a while is I'm, like, a month and a half at least, and I've repeated today that we're being followed by an epidemic of also oncological diseases that we're preparing for and that we're aware of. But right now, we're really doing everything we can to make national prevention programs go, to be realized despite the pandemic's passing. What you and I can do together as I mentioned lung cancer and colon cancer, this government and the Republic of Croatia have great preventive national early detection and lung cancer programs that were implemented about a year and a half ago for all those who have predisposition and colon cancer. So let's invite these people who are getting a call to the doorstep to respond to life-saving checks. People are getting weak They're responding. That's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You and I can do it together. to encourage a solution. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90132	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90133	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The respected ministers, the coronal and the false information have contributed significantly to the fact that we have fewer vaccinated compared to other European countries and that this battle with the crown itself is very difficult for professionals and people to whom it is a profession and who have dealt in the best possible way with this pandemic. One of the lies we heard this morning, and several times all the things that have been repeated repeatedly as untrue unfortunately become true. The untruth presented by Representative Bulj twice in his statement is that most of the countries have abolished Covid's certificates, so here I am asking you to list to us which of the European countries have abolished Covid's certificates, which are still waiting for that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90134	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90135	I thank you for the question, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Well, look at it this way, so the flat-rates exist, and I really don't know who canceled Covid's receipts. Great Britain is not in the EU and we know this, Denmark has been thinking, but it has not yet lifted. In addition, some countries that have a far higher degree of cleavage are really considering but are changing the way Covid confirms not by abolishing them. Finally, they are the European Commission's instrument, they serve for cross-border communication. So who would lift the right of their citizens to move around Europe, no one. In addition, I will tell you from the start of testing in state and public services, a million 664 thousand 780 tests of positive were made by 116311 citizens. Please listen to me all the special opposition MPs who are against the covid certificate. These people didn't know they were sick, they were tested. Because of the need for testing for state and public services, they found out that they were positive, they were isolated. We saved them from the further spread of the infection of 116 000 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90136	Please, you can do this, it's interesting data, but try to fit it into the next line. It would be very interesting to repeat them. Thank you very much. Here are my colleagues, Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90137	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. The 2022 Croatian budget for the Ministry of Health envisions 6.4 billion less than in 2021. That whole budget for 2022 is actually one non-covid budget as if the epidemic was far behind us. But the truth is completely different and tragically different than we all know. In that number of deaths, and it wasn't supposed to be like that, it wasn't really supposed to be like that, but good. I ask you to tell the public that you will finance all needs in the fight against the epidemic with such a drastically reduced budget of the Ministry of Health and that with such reduced resources you will finance all the backlogs that have been created due to the occupation of the covid system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90138	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90139	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected MPs, the budget is not a one-sided story. The budget is extremely difficult to make especially in the circumstances of the global pandemic and the extraordinary efforts of the entire government are presented here. I think it's good, and I think the health system as it has been, every time and every year including last year, will respond to the financial demands. We'll find a way like before. But we are also preparing and establishing a reform of the health system that will change the paradigm of the financing of the health system, not at all to the harm of Croatian citizens and insurance companies but in one way that will measure the outcomes of the treatment, which will introduce certain rationalisations and introduce order into the yet abandoned health system. Therefore, I have no doubt that this government will, as it has so far, find ways to address all the challenges especially of those financial in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90140	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90141	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here we all know that this new corona strain of the virus is omicron galloping, as it spreads rapidly, as people are rapidly infecting, both in Croatia and in the world. By thinking on the one hand maybe that's a good thing, maybe that's how we'll get collective immunity before we get there and I'd say it's over, but at least at the end of this pandemic. That's what we know, but I'm asking you to tell me what the current epidemiological situation in the Republic of Croatia is about this new corona virus strain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90142	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear parliamentary MPs, that the current current epidemiological situation remains challenging. However, we note that the eighth day in a row of total numbers tested in the last 24 hours and PSR and antigen falls. Today's decline is 21.86% and it started 27.1. with 3% and then 6%, the next day 9, 14, 10, 11, 17 and finally 21%. It's a good sign, and I guess it'll be a trend. What you said yourself, we don't know yet, and we can't claim that things will continue to happen. That's what a colleague of the coat of arms initially detected well. This omicron at this point, although it has four new subvariants, is indeed a virus and variant of the virus that is spreading faster but, fortunately, at this point, is causing easier clinical images. The second thing is that the Republic of Croatia has many unvaccinated and elderly who are a potential target and for harder clinical images. But at this point, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90144	Thank you. A fellow Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you how you get the money when we know what the dues in your ministry are if you've just said yourself that omicron doesn't leave a lot of consequences for adults, middle-aged people, and especially for children. Where did you get the test money? Why are you paying for these unnecessary tests, and for example, you don't have any medicine in the Pants hospitals? Not to say there are no systematic checks for a counsel who, on average, dies at 54 years old. It's all about the crown. There's no systematic examinations from hospitals. Ask Minister Bear how many defenders died last year. The average age is 54 which is a much lower average than covida-19 which is the average mortality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90146	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90147	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Parliamentarian, to get a little more information when you're touching this topic. First of all, we can discuss what these are financial delinquencies at the Ministry of Health. You've talked about it before, so the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has made its position clear. Second, who's missing some medicine? Thumbs? He's gonna get medication. The problem is the production of this vaccine which later came and the public tender of the Croatian Institute of Public Health could not be realised. So the hospitals received clear instructions that they could get these medicines themselves and do so. So there's no problem. Secondly, no one wants to test the children to produce the cost, but health costs. Testing children is an epidemiological decision not only for the sake of health safety, but also for the presence of a follow-up. It was a basic motive if you followed the presentation of Minister Fuchs to keep the children in class, not isolated in the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90148	Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. Comrade Baradic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90149	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers here are also on the trail of questions about the previous issue of colleagues here we are aware that a large number of school children and those in self-insulation, and therefore the organisation of teaching is at least complicated. Here is now the start of child testing before school and is the main intention of this action so that as many children in the classrooms as possible and that they are not sent into isolation. Do you think that's something we've come up with as a state and we're the first to implement and what benefits we expect from that measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90150	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90151	Oh, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, honourable parliamentary MPs, for giving me the opportunity to continue on to the earlier answer because the really basic reason for introducing the testing is for the children to be present at the follow-up. So if they're in contact with positive homes in isolation, self-insulation, they're not in class. The goal of this government and all governments in Europe is after we have seen online teaching not good that children are as high as possible at school. It costs, however, is harmless and relatively safe. Therefore, testing is not a newspaper, it is done by 16 countries in Europe in Liechtenstein on a daily basis, in Austria I mean 3 times a day, in Germany twice a day and everywhere it is as academic in Croatia. It was made for the benefit of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90152	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90153	Good afternoon. I've heard a lot of your exposure and you've mentioned that health care professionals are also allowed psychological help because of that burnout means, because of that burning, I think that's what they're going to say thanks to you, but it's a measure as if you're hungry to say that it meditates. So it's not about giving people psychological help but really making it possible for these people to get some compensation. If our country, as you have said many times, does not have any more significant means to give this Covid supplement, although other countries are very much paying, then it's completely incomprehensible 2 years after we're already in the crown, why not allow for the benefit of the benefits. You said that even the nurses here are 18,000 if I remember exactly the new ones who talked me into vaccination. So it's next to your job. They still call and serve as a call center. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90154	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90155	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear and distinguished parliamentary MPs, we're on the same track. We fought for a Covid supplement that is 10% of the base for the time spent working with Covid patients and that is what the Croatian State can give so far 133 million kuna. However, we have already discussed the introduction of a well-favoured job internship. It's not that I haven't thought about it, but if we've told you clearly what the way is, I don't know why you insist on insisting on it here in the assembly and towards the government. So, according to the law which is now a valuable way to regulate the benefits of the labour force, it starts with certain actions of unions, certain elaborates, etc., it's the right way, let's go that way, I don't mind even having to respect the legal path.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90156	Let's move on, colleague of the coat of arms, Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90157	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, I have three short questions. How many tests have been done so far in the state and public services, how positive these people have been, and finally how many have been prevented from infecting more people if they hadn't been tested, they wouldn't know anything about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90158	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90159	Here, thank you, allow me, thank you, Mr. President, thank you, distinguished parliamentary MPs, and you listened to the president of the assembly who said it was a very important topic, so you asked me that question and thank you. So, I'll repeat, a total of 664 thousand 780 people have been tested for the need to attend work in state and public services. 116.311 was positive for you that 6.99% of these people didn't know that they knew positive, if they had come to their working environments, they would have spread the disease. If we knew that the previously Delta variant was contagious to the extent that one infected infected 3 to 4 people in its environment, the omicron is more contagious 4 to 6.5 now count how many 116,000 positive could potentially infect our fellow citizens. But I will also tell you that as of today, only 60,264 patients are active in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this very fact justifies Covid's role as confirmation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90160	Thank you. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we all agree that the health of citizens is the most important, I believe that we all agree that high on the scale is the preservation of the economy. In fact, we have a tourist season ahead of us very quickly, one of the main revenues of citizens, especially those of the Adriatic, but also of the state budget indirectly much wider. Some of us competitive countries also have a high rate of fissure and are announcing the abolition of some measures, so I am interested in what is a plan that will allow the safety of citizens but also the safety of guests who would come to create preconditions for a successful tourist season because I don't want to think about what might happen and somewhere announces that maybe the rate of vaccination could be the key to this I don't think we need it because everyone in the tourist and related sectors expects clear messages and expects a single dose of safety before the season itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90162	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90163	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed parliamentary representative is an extremely important question. The question of our possible survival. Therefore, both the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Tourism take this problem seriously. Not someone, but I said in Split over, about a month and a half ago that one of the criteria that the European Commission will take into account when making recommendations to its citizens for summer is also the rate of vaccination of the native population. If that's the case, we're in trouble. We have to think of it as a tourist country. Our competitive tourist countries are working on it, they are more aware of this mainly in our Adriatic counties people must be aware that they live on tourism. If that really means the rate of fissure being one of the criteria we're going to go through. And therefore an extremely important question, let us take it extremely important but at the same time we appeal to the public and to, in particular, the residents of those tourist areas of our country to take it as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90164	Thank you. We're going to a fellow Sobota, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90165	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister of Croatia has died nearly 14,000 people in the covid pandemic who are actually connected to the covid. Although you have touched certain parameters in your report that have affected the mortality of these people, so be kind and answer us in fact and give us an even clearer explanation of how much this mortality is really related to vaccination, non-vaccination, some other illnesses, but you have also mentioned some lifestyles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90166	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90167	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honorable parliamentary representative, you've said well everything except that you didn't classify your age. And that's exactly what's important, but vaccination or non-vaccination is a far most important factor far, far more important. Unfortunately, these tragic deaths that occurred since April when the vaccine became available could have avoided not everything, but a good part. So it's bad that we don't vaccinate. I'll tell you what I've just said before, that if we compete with the age of the population, total fissure and also total mortality I'll tell you that there are no countries in Europe that have lower mortality and older populations or less displaced populations. That's fundamentally important. Besides, I'll tell you something else if I don't now, I'll continue later. Omicron's changing a little paradigm. Now the hospital's received most often does not die directly from complications of the disease, but from their personal illnesses, and it has offered all of us together to start differentiating those who died with and from. But if there's a chance I'll say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90168	Thank you. Say these important things before not in spare time because they're interesting, but I have to stick to the rules. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90169	Dear Mr. Minister, first of all, we thank our medical staff especially the hospital staff who are now saving people's lives. And we thank everyone who potentiates the benefits you need to give them and now for the burning things. Why has your Mr. Capak been here for a year and a half, we've been inoculating as much as I know and seeing our citizens, and they, of course, are skeptical, you're calling them anti-vaxers, you've even called them some of you not to give them access to the hospital, and these people have no access to see how and what is possible with this medicine, along with that vaccine to be like side effects. Here I have a lot of paper for different medications of the Andoli, nose drops, ravens, preparations, and everywhere it says possible side effects. Why don't we have a vaccine for possible side effects? Where's that? Why is Mr. Capak with the police and the military? distributed it to the Croatian public. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Thanks, buddy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90170	Thank you. Time's up. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90171	Thank you, Mr. President. You have been misinformed by the esteemed and esteemed parliamentary representative. Each medicine, including covid-19 vaccines, has its own list of side effects, have and is daily monitored on a daily basis, so new ones may occur. This is notified to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and, above all, to Halmed, who is an institution that records all of the vaccine effects that the doctor is obliged to report if they happen after vaccination. So don't worry about it. But the fact that you said that any medicine of ordinary analgesics, antipyretics, antibiotics may have side effects that are even more significant and dangerous than the side effects of this vaccine. Therefore, you were wrong when you said there was no record of any potential side effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90172	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90173	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers know and the fact is that we have a weak cleavage. We are particularly concerned about the poor process of segregation of the most sensitive group. They're our senior citizens. My question concerns what was further done to reach that population by the ministry, by the Staff. And the second question is do you know that the former, do you know what a former member of the government's scientific advice and narrow speciality, public-health gerontology has made recommendations to the protection of that population, what measures and whether it could have done more than make it very clear to the public now that it is an unfounded criticism of the work of the Staff and the executive authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90175	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected parliamentary MPs, the Ministry of Health took a few steps when it comes to the older population, especially older people with co-morbidities. We recognized early the fact that many of them do not want to be vaccinated, so we took some action. I said already in my report the patronage service in coordination with the family daily is on the ground, visiting elderly patients, explaining the benefits of vaccination, have visited as I said 54000, but the vaccine was only 18000 which says that these older people are founded in their intention not to vaccinate what is bad, because it can cause them to lose their lives, end up in the hospital, end up on the respirator. Then you know, by my own special decision, I asked a family doctor to call their insurance companies, not a general population older than 65 and explain to them the benefits of vaccination. Besides, there are mobile teams on the field that are visiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90176	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. A colleague named Pavić Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90177	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Well, I'd like to get back to the covid certificate. Therefore, the covid certificates have been adopted by Council Regulation and Parliament. No state has yet to lift them. Croatia was among the first dozen countries to introduce a covid certificate, but as a security certificate as well as mobility in such a way as to ensure a quality tourist season. Therefore, no country has yet to end. We'll see what happens in the future but we're just about to implement a covid certificate we've had a good tourist season. Another thing I would like to see is EU funds and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. 2.5 billion kuna is available to you here and to strengthen the health system and to reform health care. In what way and how does the use of these funds go, and how much do you expect it to come from the Multi-annual Financial Framework, or from the Standard EU Health Funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90178	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90179	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Your Honor, Mr. MP. Well, what you said was a fact. Indeed, we, partly thanks to Covid's use of the certificate, had such a successful season and they are the EU Commission's instrument, thus all those who are talking about abolishing them at this time are calculating. It is also possible that the omicron really changes the paradigm of this epidemic and that things are going better and that we will all give up on measures, but we are witnessing that in some countries like Great Britain, measures are now being abolished for political reasons. Other countries are much more soberer, although they have a better epidemiological situation and a higher rate of cleavage and do not rush to conclusions. We're absolutely not in this situation. We don't have enough splits, splits, the omicron is still there, some of us later hit that 5th wave, so we have to act really responsibly and rationally. The use of Covid certificate has its limitations, changing its role in the new variants of the virus But in principle, it remains important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90180	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90181	Thank you. Dear Minister, I listened carefully to your presentations, especially when you explained the causes of high mortality in Croatia, it is very important to know and thank you for that. However, my question concerns this strategy, at EU level. So we see that the booster dose vaccination strategy is neither appropriate nor sustainable. That's not my flat-rate, that's what the World Health Organization says. So the manufacturers of these vaccines themselves are aware that the effectiveness of the fall with the emergence of new variants. We all know that, and we're doing our best. However, the EU has pre-ordered what I often say, 4.6 billion doses by next year, and the question is, do you agree with that strategy because they do so on behalf of all of us, asks where they're going with the extra [[Intruder: Thank you.]] vaccines because there is no will for 10 doses per capita. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90182	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90183	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Your Honors and honors, Mr. Parliamentarian. An extremely important complex question cannot be answered in these minutes. What's completely true and what you've detected well, there are new variations that are less relevant to previously made vaccines. However, they do. Be careful, the world health care that you have mentioned now claims that the 3rd Dot BOOSTER dose protects both in omicron and in delta cases from severe illness and death. It's enough to protect older people's lives. You understand? Now, by how long it'll go, it's hard to say. We believe that the omicron may be this game changer that will change the game and the paradigm that will immunize us all in a short period of time, create active immunity, and the virus will no longer have a place to spread and the pandemics will edify. That would be optimal, therefore, impossible to predict in which direction it will go. When it comes to this strategy, yes, I think it's the right thing to do. For what reason? Reasons for Security [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We have to shoot and blow cold. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90184	Minister, thank you. Please, let's hold on for a minute. Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90185	Thank you. Dear Minister, you regularly warn in the media that an epidemic of mental disorders awaits us. I'm really glad that you recognize this especially because all research shows that groups of children and young people are at risk, especially since even before the pandemic and at this point, concern for the mental health of children and young people is really at low levels. Here, according to waiting lists, in KBC Zagreb is waiting 94 days for a checkup, at the Children's Hospital in Klaic for 108 days, in Pula 367 days for the first review of the child's psychiatrist. Now, given the national strategies for the protection of mental health we have been waiting since 2016, you will admit that this does not leave us much room for optimism, I am interested in what concrete steps you plan to take to deal well with the pandemic of mental disorders that follows us in many groups, but above all, in children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90186	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90187	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, for your distinguished and respected parliamentary representation. We're not planning on taking any steps. We've already made them. Ask my Secretary of State Bashic how many times in the last two months I've asked him when the national mental health development strategy will live. Due to certain administrative frameworks, it is prior to adoption, so I can announce from this point of adoption within a few weeks, if all is well. I really insisted on it, as I insisted on it because as a ministerial assistant, I was aware of the problems of child psychiatry and Kukuljevic and Klaic, to start building, building, right at Rebr of one additional capacity within child's psychiatry, but Covid has again started it. I think we're going to have a new children's hospital that's founded, for which the feasibility study is ready to solve that question. However, first of all, the national development strategy mental health is my imperative. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90188	Comrade Klasic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90189	Thank you, Honorable President of HS, Your Honor. Independently, here it is, often from populistism, in the public space on the quality of Croatian health that we will hear today, it is to me that one of the more relevant data is that in his work that over 200 thousand of our citizens, although they have gone to many EU countries continue to benefit from the services of our health system. On the other hand, what's indisputable to me and what's going on here today is going to be a lot of debate, that in this last wave of epidemics, it seems to me, we've brought some sometimes delayed and overly mild measures. I hope this winter, this epidemic will still be over, but I'm interested in it, just out of curiosity, have we developed a plan of battle and measures in case, don't give God a new, 6th wave and a continuation of this pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90190	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start by answering the first part of your question, you know it's HZZO, which is an activity that is consistent with the Ministry of Health already in contact with the Ministry of Labour and that the lists of all insurance companies are being reviewed. And that's the problem that exists, it's not easy to solve it because insurance at European level doesn't change each other, it's not possible to see if any of our people who went to work abroad are registered to some kind of health insurance, but it's probably a matter of scale. The law does not allow double payment, so we must once clear these lists that exist both HZZO and fellow director Lucijan Vukelić are on the way. It's been a recent talk about it. When it comes to our plan we have it in principle. But we can't do detailed plans now and we've been telling you for two years that we've been out of the blue the day we evaluate a series of parameters which are essential for assessing the measures given. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90192	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90193	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Minister, in the autumn, the portals were able to track the number of deaths according to the vaccine status, and it was about moving between 1/3 of the vaccinated 2/3 of the unvaccinated. The entry in November last year as it naturally moved towards citizens to vaccinate and introduce a decision on the introduction of Covid certificates into public services and access to the same data on the deaths under the vaccine status is no longer publicly published. The last piece of information we can find on HZZ's website is a week from November 10th to November 16th. Therefore, it is not possible to find data on deaths according to the vaccine status or there is only one Excel table in which the required statistics are not kept. Since it is almost 3,500 deaths from 16 November to this day, I have to ask you why HZZ and the government have stopped publishing data on vaccinations from 16 November to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90194	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90195	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know the information that's not being published, but here I have my glasses, because I'm getting a report every day on the deceased's vaccination status, so I'll be free to read to you yesterday's. So yesterday, vaccinations, non-vaccinated were 64.8%, completely vaccinated 25%, completely vaccinated plus booster additional 7.4%, partially vaccinated 1.9%, and yesterday there were no invalid healing records. Therefore, we keep this statistics it is not a secret if you want HZJZ will provide you with detailed information on the vaccine status deceased for each day and not only in principle but also in view of the type of vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90196	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90197	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers for the past 3 months, as far as this report goes, we've really been through one of the most exciting periods in the fight against the pandemic. On the one hand, the health system, the headquarters, on the other hand, unfortunately some politicians, have become folk doctors. The people's doctor Bulj, the people's doctor Grumoja, the people's doctor, Rasduc, sends very different messages compared to what the health system says. Unfortunately, they continue to do so today, and they say they should end everything. Let us remember what they were doing, while they called for freedom, the concepts of socializing on the other side, especially KBC Split called for additional forces especially in health care to preserve the system. And unfortunately, we have bad results. So my question now is what we should do, whether we should continue to listen to these folk doctors who tomorrow call for the abolition of all measures and confirmations and vaccinations and non-bearing masks or we will continue to listen to science or doctors, health care system in order to sort of The sooner we get out of this pandemic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90198	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, that's very clear to me. I'm just sorry that there aren't any people who are very rigid about certain attitudes because not because I'm here, and I'm not an epidemiologist, but I'm still reading some report that would give you something to hear, some kind of statistics, some kind of evaluation that indicates whether the vaccination is good, whether it's not good. That's true data. I am therefore sorry that these parliamentary representatives and MPs are not here right now to clarify some dilemmas if they exist at all. They don't exist among scientists and experts. Whether they're part of populism and getting some political points, I don't know, but this kind of behavior also leads me to that conclusion. Indeed, science and profession are the only ones that can get us out of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90200	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90201	Thank you very much. As a doctor, respected ministers cannot agree with those who claim that health care professionals in hospitals, surgeons in salami infect our patients. Only those who do not have enough clinical, medical knowledge and knowledge can say that, or are deliberately engaged in pulsism, politics and wider faca news. But he's criticizing you. You have decided to test the vaccinated healthcare professionals in one mini project of 1,500 people, you have not presented enough to the public, and the results that have been vaccinated to a lesser extent can be infected or transmitted the virus and you have not accepted our amendment to the budget, and before that I told you about the topical at 11 months last year that in one project it means 2 weeks, twice a week and vaccinated healthcare professionals. Do you still think that now that the omicron has come this way, the time has come to test healthcare professionals who are also vaccinated, to isolate them as soon as possible and to return to work as soon as possible, so for at least the next 2-3 weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90202	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90203	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dearly respected Parliamentarians thank you for confirming my findings that vaccinated healthcare professionals do not really spread the infection on their patients as some claim because we have done everything to make it not so. Furthermore, when it comes to HZZZ research, I think the results have been published. If not, I will ask the Director to provide you with the exact data of one pilot of research, however, which has provided relatively satisfactory data, they are very useful. And the third answer to your question is whether or not what's going to change is the same answer that I'm doing on a daily basis, and the waist gives me an answer. At this point, the waist isn't telling me that there's anything to change about security measures in the health system. There he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90204	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90205	I thank the President, Your Honor. The Varazdin hospital has been among the most burdensome since the beginning of the pandemic, as we know and, despite and unfortunately, the obstructions of the local HDZ, but with great help and work and effort and employee staff and former director, but also you personally as minister, I must say, we have been able to get over it. Now the local HDZ, to which I return, has replaced the non-partisan director, the top neurosurgeon and set up its local HDZ chamber, the man who graduated the sisterhood and who, by the way, is the chief of the municipality of Bednja because, by the way, the head of the hospital, is hard to say. So the Varazdin hospital is the 5th largest hospital in Croatia and today has an extremely large number of hospitalized, high mortality rates. Do you feel that such a hospital and such a large complex system can be guided along the way and how such staffing contributes to your efforts and efforts? to improve the work of the hospital and the health system at all? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90206	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90207	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Parliamentarians. Since it is a county institution, therefore the founder and owner of the county, cannot really influence the selection of directors. I'm not familiar with the circumstances or I'm sure the former director didn't leave because of the fact he wanted to leave. I don't know, but my colleague's a neurosurgeon, so I know him, and I'm really saying he was a top expert and he ran that hospital well. Every day we continue to communicate with the director of the current Varazdin hospital, we are really trying, the situation is under control, we were recently visiting Varazdin where we visited the newly built OHBP, it seems impressive, they are part of these capacities, I think, even arranged for the adoption of Covid-19 positive patients, at this point the Covid crisis situation in Varazdin, thank God, is not crisis, if it is, we will help again. I don't have any data on dysfunction at this point in the Varazdin hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90208	I'm a colleague of Lenart's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90209	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. The proverb says, "Better to stop than to heal." When the virus is like this, it's hard to prevent, so it has to be treated, and the sooner it starts with treatment, I think it's a better outcome for a patient. I think there's been a lot of error in primary health, I don't think the Ministry has worked with primary health because often up to five days before testing, so maybe two more days to the doctor, and doctors say, symptomatic therapy, everyone doesn't understand the symptoms very well, and then often develop harder pictures where they shouldn't, harder clinical images. Do you plan with primary health to correct the matter that those before and more intensely affect the symptoms that occur in those who are infected, positive, and even if they wait days for this test to get some therapy, prevent severe symptoms? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90210	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, there are guidelines for the hospital treatment of patients from Covid-19. I think they've been updated three times. There are also guidelines for family doctors, for primary health care when it comes to patients with Covid disease. So all doctors are familiar with this, through CEZIH are at their addresses, e-mail addresses to their systems addressed and guidelines and I think they are respected and done by them. The challenge of long wait was something that we caught ourselves with 10 days ago, when we made sure that doctors were also taking the primary participation more into the test of rapid antigen tests, as HZJZ estimated at that moment to take as relevant and rapid antigen tests. However, we must say that we have made some analyses regarding primary work and that they did not have a number of reviews compared to previous years. Although physical less, but therefore significantly increased telephone [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Consultations. [[Thank you very much.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90212	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90213	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, you mentioned the tourist season and economic growth. Last year's tourist results surpassed all the forecasts and therefore increased expectations for the next tourist season. We were the feather of the tourist Mediterranean, but our competition is also growing stronger. We know that the pandemic movements are unpredictable and that poor fissure. Since I can't see from this report, please tell me what the situation in the fissure is exactly in the coastal counties and what is the situation in our competitive countries, or what is expected for us in the next tourist season?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90214	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. I'm going to get attached to what I just said. Indeed, there is a possibility that, as one of the criteria for travel recommendations to EU citizens, it is recommended that they do not go to those regions where the population is low, if that is the case, we are in a bad situation. So, from the fact that we were the Mediterranean security champion last year to possibly a bad situation this year, it's possible. But what is the answer and what is the way out? We're inoculating. If we want foreign guests, tourists to come, we need to vaccinate. That's how we ensure our safety, but we also ensure their safety. We need to be aware of that. And the Ministry of Tourism is already planning some action on the subject, and that's our inevitable. We have to wake up from a winter dream. The summer's coming, it'll come very soon, we have to be aware if it happens, that we're not in a good situation. We won't be able to get results like last year. Vaccination can fix that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90216	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90217	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister, every disease has to be treated from the moment of diagnosis, this as a doctor you know, I suppose the Ministry should act that way at the moment of the pandemic. Unfortunately, it's not like that. My question is why we haven't been treating people in the pandemic since the start of the disease itself, or the diagnosis, but the stalking protocols that, for example, are being diagnosed. The U.S. uses already, and why are we waiting for the development of the disease to end, and then we're taking them to hospitals, looking for solutions to this same disease? Why has none of the HDZ experts since the start of the epidemic, since they are the only ones obviously relevant because there is no dialogue, looked at the symptoms that raise immunity in home treatment, which is terribly important, and some countries have even introduced procedures and allowed such supplements to be used during home treatment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90218	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90219	Well, thank you, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Parliamentarian. I just told you there are protocols to treat patients in primary health care and they're here. So we don't have to read American, we have our homework and they describe how it's done. On the other hand, I don't understand how you think they'd hospitalize any sick patient? Well, that's impossible. The most severe patients are treated. Those who are easier are treated at home. The therapy prescribed is taken, not according to the Croatian profession, according to the European and world profession. There are some supplements that are good for raising general immunity, but it would be very bad to think that these supplements could be medicines for the treatment of Covida-19, it is a very, very bad premise, you know what treats this disease, such medicines, and I have read in the Report, we are trying as a Government to get and some are already present on our market, and besides, infectology and waist as such is the one that determines the path of treatment for our patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90220	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Croatia has so far managed the pandemic in a flexible way with regard to countries in the environment and it has proved to me a good approach because we see that these countries are now leaving the lockdown system that has not actually reduced the spread of the disease and has negatively affected the economy, but has negatively affected the psychophysical state of citizens. We've also introduced rapid antigen tests, which I can see that other countries are now starting to use more and more, but there's a problem, they're not being recognized for issuing Covid certificates. I am informed that as early as this summer Croatia submitted to the EU Commission an initiative it has now repeated, that rapid antigen tests are also recognised for the issue of Covid certificate, so I wonder if we can now expect support from other Member States in treating the EU Commission in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90222	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90223	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. Well, there's a representative of the profession, and I'm going to commend them and say that even then, when they first wrote to the EU Commission, they were kind of ahead of time. We reiterated this memo, but now more and more countries are supporting this initiative that rapid antigen tests are in some way al pairs with a PCR test that is a golden standard. However, during that initial perhaps period there were certain dilemmas because the quality of rapid antigen tests, especially not all of them, was not such that they were relevant. However, today this is no longer a question, so I am thinking that, with certain restrictions that rapid antigen tests have, they can indeed represent a relevant diagnostic tool, and in this context, the profession has addressed the EU Commission, more countries are thinking in the same way, and we think that this will ultimately change the decision of the EU Commission, which, unfortunately, is the only possible one so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90224	Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90225	Dear Ministers, Croatia is a member of the EU, as such has access to information, knowledge and vaccine. It is therefore actually questionable how it is possible for Croatia to be among the last countries in the EU, but also in the world after vaccination, but it is also the first to read mortality in the world these days. I must say that you are called General and you received this comparison, you said that the general makes sometimes good decisions, sometimes bad, but they have to be carried out. If these statistics are correct, and behind these statistics are people with a name and a last name, does that mean that someone disobeyed your good orders? Who's that? Is that health care, education, police, citizenship? Politics or maybe opposition? And if they were listening, why are we in those places?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90226	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90227	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, so the question is very much in place, Mr. MP, and I'll tell you, I'll try to answer you. So still part of what you said isn't true. We're not in the first place by mortality, we're a long way from it. If you had listened to what I read today, you would have understood what it really is. But when it comes to this, this non-vaccination, it really does hold me back. The state, or the government, has secured the vaccine, it's free of charge, we've secured enough vaccines of checkpoints, vaccines, we've secured time at the moment when the attack was to be vaccinated, so we've made every assumption that people are being vaccinated. But they didn't. I'm going to ask you a question, do you think, are these vaccination disputes, whether Covid's confirmations have been questioned by the fact that some citizens are confused because we're not simply unisons? I said in my presentation, we can only win together, only together can we send a clear message to keep people inoculated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90228	Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go. Comrade Byce, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90229	So I listened to you and I can say that I understood when you were talking about statistics. But you didn't challenge the statistics but you... So 234, if I'm not mistaken. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/Intruder: colleague Byce, what is, where is the injured Rules of Procedure, what, what article? You have to say it right away.]] 234. 238, excuse me. [[/Intruder: Which one?]] 238, here it is. But speaking of which, I was called by the minister to answer, which is why I wanted to answer that I know how to read statistics,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90230	Comrade Byce, you're getting a warning, please, it's art. 238, you did not explain what was in the article. 238 than you've replicated, and that's a clear warning. Here's a colleague of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90231	... The headquarters, all doctors, doctors and non-medical staff have been fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus for two years already in Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And you do it despite all the unknowns, the news, the mistrust, and the open resistance to the decisions that the Staff makes. And in my humble opinion, I think you're doing very well. There has been no collapse of the health system, health care is available to everyone in Croatia. Also since the first day it was possible to obtain vaccines, vaccines have been obtained and are available to everyone today and can be vaccinated. In these past two years, it means with everything that you and your colleagues have been through at headquarters, there's one personal question about whether there's something different that you could have done differently, and that today would have been a better situation. Your personal opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90233	Thanks for asking. It's extremely difficult to answer. Of course saying that everything was perfect is just not like that, we all know that. That there were big mistakes wasn't them either. I think we really did it every day because of the fact that we've been meeting for days, that we've evaluated all the necessary parameters even the fact that we haven't used that traffic light, but we've used our methods based on a daily analysis of a series of parameters. So we eventually came to conclusions. What we later learned about some new, mostly new variants that we knew originally of course that we would then draw different conclusions. First at the first moment and today I said we were all scared because the reaction wasn't appropriate, we entered a strict lockdown, but it was an unknown enemy, we didn't know how he would behave. Later, we gained experience and adapted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90234	Thank you. Comrade Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90235	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You spoke for 18 minutes and 51 seconds. You've had a few dramatic breaks. President Jandrokovic and the representative of the coat of arms even asked you to repeat some of the data, so you repeated them. That data is really great, but you said quote in the ninth minute that we have a controlled epidemiological situation. Your quote has been completed. ... So you think we have a controlled, so on the trail of Brkanovo if you were panicking for a reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we had mortality 25% on average, 25 daily patients do you really think that the controlled situation when you die is 25 Croats. So what's the mistake? Is that a lapus chalami? Is that a lapus lingue? Is that a copy paste? So I'm going to repeat the controlled situation of 25 panics, 55 controlled. And please, we all know you're a very decent man, don't thank Jandrokovic, don't thank me. Because that gives you 10 seconds to answer the question whether it's a lapus and whether you agree that 55 dead are controlled situations. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90236	Comrade Ostojić, you have now gone 10 seconds out of time But don't give that kind of advice to the minister. [[Intruder: So you share always...]] He can spend his minute the way he wants, but being decent nowadays is very good, given that we have a lot, we have a lot of rude ones. You didn't complain about them, and you complained about a decent man. Okay. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90237	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. My dear colleague, I really respect you, and I don't know if you listened very carefully then. If you were listening to the context of my story was a speech, there was a rise in the number of newly infected people across Europe and in this context, the development of the epidemiological situation, the waist thought we were controlling the epidemic. Of course 50 dead a day doesn't mean control of the disease, but I also gave you eight counts that elaborate on mortality. Non-vaccination is the primary cause. If we had been here in the Croatian Parliament and in public political life in the universe, we would have sent unambiguous messages, which your party would certainly have made a different message to our citizens and a different relationship to vaccination, given that there is a certain resistance to all public policies, etc. So also the health policy of the government and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90238	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ostojić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90239	The Rules of Procedure as you know, Mr. Jandrokovic, paragraph 238, has been injured because the minister has not answered the question quite precisely, so whether it is a lapus chalami or a lapus lingue. I think it's a lapus chalami after all. One of the points, Mr. Minister, eight, you have accused the statistics of the European Union of being bad statistics of the European Union. Then it's the seventh. Then we'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90240	Your colleague Ostojić is being warned. Of course, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90241	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. So the virus has its own life. In the waves and let's hope that he will actually kill himself and that this story will end in a way that we should hope for. The same was true of the various decisions that had been challenged. I must remind you of those first decisions when all contacts took care of all contacts, when he declared himself a terrorist man who was in his field eagle. Today when it seems to me that these contacts are absolutely no longer topic and question at all isolation and when you have how much you should go into isolation at all, you should not go into isolation, you should not go into isolation and all together so that I will ask you a very, very simple question. Your secretary recently had a corona or is still in corona. She's certainly your direct contact. When was the last time you tested?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90242	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90243	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, you hear my speech, so I'm a little bit in the virosis, three last days every morning before work, testing myself with rapid antigen tests, so that's it. And as for my secretary, that she had a corona, she was in isolation and the fact is and further Mrs. MPs that isolation and self-insulation were clearly prescribed. A recent change in their duration has been prescribed, it is all announced to the Croatian public, contacts are still sought and monitored in terms of preventing the spread of the infection. So you're on the wrong track if you think we've given up tracking contacts or something. There's still isolation. And it's all the same as before, except that the timelines have changed because of how the new strain of omicron variants of the virus work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90244	He's a colleague of Pavić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90245	Dear Ministers in the report find a large amount of media indicators and an analysis of these indicators which, among other things, point to the heavy burdens, efforts and risks suffered by healthcare professionals who worked with covid patients and the covid departments in hospitals, which is what we who were lying in hospitals could see for ourselves. We're at the Social Democrats Club's position that these efforts, other than money, must be compensated through the benefited internship. We are the ones who respect the procedure, and since no legislative proposal has come to date regarding this benefitsted internship, we have prepared a bill on amendments and additions to the law on the training of insurance with an increased duration that we would send to the procedure. Please inform me if you will support this proposal and are you prepared to implement this law retroactively?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90246	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90247	Thank you. I don't know if you were there when I was answering a similar question. I support all those initiatives that want to express their gratitude either financially, or morally, or in terms of the benefits of working for all those healthcare professionals who have been on the front line for almost two years now. However, even then, I said, and I repeat to you, we need to follow the legal procedure. You know who should initiate this procedure. If it is initiated I will personally support it, however, the issue of amending the law is the issue of the labour ministry. They have their own thoughts and I believe they will do everything in accordance with the law, and the idea as such to return part of the effort and everything that health care professionals have done during the treatment of covid patients I am on that trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90248	We're going to the last line of our colleagues, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90249	Thank you. Dear Ministers, we have been witnessing in recent weeks a major affair that is rocking the EU and the European Commission. The head of the European Commission does not want to publish its private correspondence with Pfiser's boss and it is a mega scandal. I want to ask you a question, and be careful how you answer it is what all the meetings you have had with the representatives of pharmaceutical companies or those from whom medical equipment is obtained to combat this epidemic and what private correspondence you have had and if you have had with that correspondence and meetings you will meet the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90251	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Grmoya. You don't have to warn me to think twice before I answer. So do you think I ever answer differently than in the best way and honestly? So, as Minister, I have been asked on several occasions for meetings with certain representatives of the largest pharmaceutical industries not because they would negotiate sales, but rather to introduce us to their products. I'm not going to argue right now, but I don't think I've been to any of my other duties on a few was the Secretary of State who went to the government, but he was there. Therefore, it is common practice and does not mean anything. I told you that we joined the procurement of the European Commission for both vaccines and medicines. There's been an exceptional supply through the Department of Health for Equipment or something. Most of the contest went through the stock reserves. Therefore, I personally did not participate, nor did I have any private contacts, nor did I have with drug manufacturers, vaccines, tests, anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90252	Thank you, Minister. We're done with the replicas, so please return to your seat now. Would the committee's reporters possibly want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and respected colleague Andrea Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90253	Thank you, well-respected President, that is, Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report we have already heard includes activities undertaken by the Government, the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Republic of Croatia, the state authorities and units of local, regional self-government and the legal person with public authority to protect public health interests or to carry out measures and procedures aimed at protecting public health in the area of Croatia due to the outbreak of covid-19 disease. However, in the opening part, it is written very deep and incorrect data. It says that in the reporting period Croatia is mostly in the lower half of the country's rate of confirmed cases and death rates compared to other EU countries. The real truth is that we are in the EU by death fourth behind Bulgaria, Hungary and the Czech Republic. We'll be in third place soon. ... strictly meet the needs of a given moment and last only as long as the circumstances require it. The problem, however, is that we have repeatedly said that the measures are constantly delayed, not sufficiently explained by the headquarters and the government, calculating towards political needs. You have no courage and determination to bring them as the epidemiological situation really requires. Why didn't you look up to other countries, and why didn't you clearly explain to the citizens everything that was being done? Why didn't you clearly say in a number of infected, hospitalized, dead, vaccinated go this set of measures, another number goes to a second set of measures? Why didn't you make it clear that when 80% of the people split, we abolish measures like many others did? So, we talked about the traffic lights several times about the need to carry out a clear cost Benefit analysis also again nothing. You don't actually admit to the public mistakes that have been made and which have been made, nor have you apologized for that. With your bad and unconsistent decisions, you created an atmosphere of mistrust in institutions and professions with the severe consequences of the pandemic. Because of everything I've said and what I'm about to say, we can't support this report. Furthermore, the report shall provide for 4 groups of activities to be undertaken in the field of prevention, preparedness, response and recovery. So here you point to the moral obligation of every citizen to actually prevent the spread of the infection by vaccination and testing. Of course, each of us should contribute, but it turns out that you want to say that after the vaccine is obtained, all further responsibility is removed from the government and transferred to the citizens. Epidemiological measures are loose, as a nation we misrespect measures, implementation is not controlled enough, citizens do not trust institutions, there are too few splits and the vaccination campaign is badly done. 63.05% of the adult population was vaccinated by 31.12, and we all agree that it is too small. And at the debate in the previous report, I said that so far we have not seen the plan for the vaccination campaign or who is its bearer, whether the headquarters, government, HZZ or someone fourth, and who is then directly responsible for too few vaccines. We've already been able to do a ten-time investigation into the reasons for non-vaccination and characteristics of non-vaccinated people. This, of course, cannot be done at this time by overworked health institutions, but by the Institute for Social Research, Colleges and so on, and would therefore adjust interventions to the results of such research and thus actually target the campaign, and I spoke about it in the previous report. How do you plan to motivate citizens from the worst-vaccinated counties in the south of Croatia who depend most on tourism? We already know you're going to be looking at a vaccination map. Do you have any records from headquarters sessions and scientific advice? As far as I know, you don't have any and don't have any. How will we assess whether the decisions you make are right and on what basis? The health system shoots at seams, is overloaded, dissatisfied and exhausted healthcare professionals who have been mobilized for nearly 2 years, and do not follow their recommendations, while family doctors learn from the media first. The doctors and nurses are missing, they are choked by too much administration, they are dissatisfied citizens I have already said because you are misrepresenting the decisions and recommendations you make, and their health care is becoming increasingly unreachable. The testing organization isn't the same all over the county. You spend the money our citizens pay in health insurance their entire lives to vaccinate and test foreign citizens, you send our doctors and sisters to these jobs while our citizens wait for more than a week for PCR tests. Fast tests in other countries are not recognised as valid for obtaining a covid certificate except for us, but many citizens especially younger require confirmation by the PCR test. I already told you that, I wrote to you in an open letter, I was talking about it. So some want to be tested with BAT and PCR confirmation. You in the display of the last days show how positive PCR is, how much BAT is. And there's people who are double. How are you going to show how infected he really is? Then you'll answer me clearly. You claim the hospital system is also ready for the 5th wave of pandemic. Does our public know who's all forced to treat covid patients? Do our citizens know that they are treated not only by infectologists and pulmologists but by healthcare professionals of all profiles who are forced to further educate themselves for what they have not specialized in, yet they are doing their best to save the lives of many of our fellow citizens.? Furthermore, in this report you finally present the figures on the work of family medicine or primary health care. It clearly states that during the entire epidemic period, I quote, on average, the number of patients in the family doctor's office has been reduced by about 20%, but by more than 40% the number of contacts, given instructions and advice by telephone and other channels of recording contact for their dedicated patients has been increased. So I'm going to talk a little bit more about it in an individual debate. Then the report briefly presented data on emergency medical services, sanitary transport, capacity increase for covid patients in hospitals. We who work in the system know what the situation is and what the burden of health is because of the care of the covids of the sick citizens, of course that severe diseases must be preceded and why healthcare is less accessible to all other patients. But because of all the mistakes that have been made so far, our citizens do not know all this, and you as a minister have not made enough effort to stand behind the health care system employees and admit how much work is done, not constantly calling them unhappiness. The consequences of covida-19 and postcovid syndrome, damaged mental health and citizens and medics are understated. We've asked for amendments to the budget to provide for funds for the psychological assistance of health care professionals. You say that certain institutions are available, but since 40% of doctors suffer from Bernard syndrome, 70% of even sister anxiety, depression, according to the data available to me, I think this assistance should be systematic and continuous. It is already known that there are fewer preventive checks in the national programmes for early detection of breast and colon cancers, there are fewer newly diagnosed and treated malignancies and other diseases, and the consequences of these are yet to be seen. The report shows the percentage of unvaccinated cases of 68.9%, 67.3 and 71%, respectively. All of this is too little public and I appeal to you as a doctor to get to know people more about this data. You didn't bother to deny all those ministers, and even when they come from scientific circles, and not the clinicians who make false claims that I quote, the measures kill people, that vaccination kills people, that I've heard and attended in my ears, invite citizens to protest, confuse them with incorrect information, and relativize the previous 13.900 dead during the pandemic. As far as the death toll is concerned, they died with or by covid. You have not yet determined by further analyses who died of direct effects of covid, and who due to other diseases from SARS-COV-2 call, or what methodology we use, and which others expect to give us this information and information. However you turn, we are at the top by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. The other apparently more well - arranged and advanced countries that have split have much more and much less dead. As far as the cost of testing is concerned, here are as many as 4 billion kunas per covid, i.e. for the costs of 1.93 billion kuna. I'll have a lot more to say, because of the time I don't get there, and I'll speak in individual debate and finally, and I said we won't be able to support the report, you have to fix what we're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90254	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, Mrs. Martincevic, I see Martincevic, and then Mr. Klasic, although he writes the other way around, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90255	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I've talked about the crisis-related situation caused by the coronaryvirus, the decisions of the headquarters and the special measures in this high house many times already. Unfortunately, continuing to ignore numbers and facts continuously, along with more comprehensive pulsism and politics, continues. This health crisis continues to be politicised and in particular some political parties polarised our society to collect of course cheap political points and it has not managed to change nearly 14,000 deceased persons in Croatia since the start of the pandemic. Today, we can see that in Western European countries, a high level of fission in synergy with an accelerated spread of another variant of omicron in the split by two, and particularly in the three-dose split resulting from mostly mild diseases if there is a contagion of the vaccinated. At the same time, the remaining small percentage of the mostly younger population is being infected, thus achieving almost complete protection. All of this taking into account the seasonality makes the option of going back to a normal life very realistic. Unfortunately, this is not the situation in which Croatia is in death, today it has been said several times at the very top of Europe, which, by the influence of the covid crisis on the economy, and because of the stressed contribution of tourism to our GDP, is, of course, the most endangered in this regard, EU member states. What I think is, in fact, the biggest failure is the fact that we failed to establish citizens' trust in science and institutions, and this certainly did not contribute to the setting up and almost to the last moment the retention of characters such as Lauca, by a government appointed by scientific advice, and for that there is no excuse. So, because of such people, we are in a position to come from the government's own scientific advice to question and question the entire relevant science in the world. We had the fact that the government and the national headquarters were in the morning and the scientific advice were speaking one thing in the morning, and then the afternoon Lauc and his pal Bakic and a few others denied it or at least questioned both the decisions and the measures and attitudes of the entire scientific public. I think it was extremely harmful and I don't understand why it was really waiting until the last one to at least throw such people out of the government's scientific advice because it really was very, very, very bad and harmful and dangerous for me. The second is the fact that, of course, trust was not contributed to government decisions to violate their own measures whenever it was politically opportunized. So, for example. We decided that the virus had a lot of passion for going to the theater, going to the movies, going to concerts, but that virus wouldn't go to churches, so we left the churches open, and we closed everything else. We also made measurements of up to 100 to 50, up to 30 people, but when there was a column for Vukovar, then a few thousand is no problem. So all of this has contributed to a serious wave of trust in both the headquarters and the scientific advice decisions and, of course, this debate is going simply in this direction today, in this direction, and for most of these problems you are simply blaming yourself. The second thing, a great deal of responsibility, and to get it off you, you've turned it to local headquarters, very rare of which took it seriously and did it seriously, those who are like. We in Varazdin County in the last term, have received political, serious political beatings and, of course, taught by this experience now all local headquarters do not give God to make some difficult or politically dangerous decision regarding measures, a covid confirmation or anything else regardless of the increase in hospitalised, regardless of the mortality rate until it is necessary and until the local headquarters measures are taken by such a kind of decision. And of course that's not only true at this point in Varazdin County, but that's the case in most local communities, and it also contributed to a large number of hospitalized and unfortunately fatalities. There have been many objections to the work of headquarters, many of which have been justified, and there have also been serious arguments to discuss civil freedoms. We often talked about it here in the assembly and listened. However, all these objections, as a first assumption, should have a clear and fair view in the interests of the citizens of this country, and this is the loudest possible call by any politician "people inoculate". That's what we missed doing and that's what's not good. I'll leave my colleagues now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90256	Thank you. Mr. Klasic, same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90257	Here's a thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, and distinguished ministers with associates. In 2021. We have recorded a total of 63,612 dead citizens, the largest since World War II, and only 367,478 born making it a natural disadvantage of 27,133 citizens in one year, straight, of course not counting emigration. Right at the beginning of the debate, let's touch demographics. Looking at seven days, the number of deaths per million EU citizens died not nearly 3% less than in Croatia. Croatia has fewer infections than the EU average, but we are well above all mortality. The only difference between Croatia and others is the degree of cleavage. In 2021 alone, nearly 11,000 Croats died more, and nearly 2,700 Croats more last month. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of deceased by Covid has exceeded the number of victims of the Homeland War, and still, almost every day, almost one bus of our citizens dies. For months in public space there has been persistent communication, communication of messages that are at least contradictory, which banalises the danger of Covid and which have led to further confusion of our citizens, thereby causing direct damage to Croatia in the fight against the pandemic. In key moments, the need for an enhanced incentive to vaccinate our citizens has unfortunately been delayed by some politicians. Not only did they refuse to invite people to vaccination but they rode a wave of anti-vaxers knowingly trading lives and citizens' health by several percentages of political ratings. These reasons are also the answer to a weak interest in vaccination. With our common tendency to know everything, even though when we are sick, we continue to seek the help of a health profession. Obviously, about Covid, we all think we know something and we have an opinion. Although I have worked in the medical profession so far, I have perhaps more knowledge than the average citizens of the Republic of Croatia, my opinion in this case is not relevant. I stick to the opinion of the profession, primarily the infector and the epidemiologist, so I don't think I'm going to ask for the opinion of a psychologist or a dentist but an orthopedist who's more experienced in this area. I don't think our headquarters was any less successful than the others, but there's a big difference in the population between the British, the Danes, the Germans and us. Why were they more successful than we were in cleavage? Because clear rules were laid down and anti-epidal measures were strictly controlled. Also, their citizens do not have unlimited access to health care, as is the case with us because they bear financial responsibility for their health, and we are free of charge. The unbearable ease of irresponsibility doesn't affect us personally, and we don't care about the community. In Germany, citizens have the right to 2 free tests, and the rest of the citizens pay themselves, and they all think well whether an additional EUR 10 will be tested if the state offers them a free vaccine. The consequences of this epidemic on the global economy are enormous and can end the greatest global and economic crisis. Croatia is not an island, the more vulnerable it is. Tomorrow, we will all be asking the state to regulate and protect the standard of citizens, and until yesterday, we have been irresponsible to the impact of the epidemic on our finances. It's not just politicians who blame it all, it's part of the citizens. Our country and government must stress this protection maximumly within their capabilities during the pandemic of our economy and preserved a large number of jobs, and the rest was on us. Unfortunately, the consequences and the choice of irresponsible individuals will be carried very quickly by almost all of us personally. Let's not forget that only the cost of this pandemic so far is more than 30 billion kuna. For example, this is the amount of the Ministry of Culture's 30-year budget or the amount of the 8-year budget for the Ministry of Defence. If we were to assess from the economy the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this pandemic, the evaluation should be a solid four, but otherwise, because of the inconsistencies and sometimes delayed overbearing measures in the past 3 months, unfortunately, it would hardly be possible to obtain a passing grade. Although the war with this pandemic is not yet over, and although we are running out of strength and patience, we expect the pandemic to end much longer because scientists say the end of the pandemic is nearer. Let us not forget about the basic epidemic protection Social disseminating and safeguarding measures [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The highest price has already been paid by nearly 14,000 of our citizens [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Let's not be a part of these black statistics [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And let's not die at the end of the war. [[Intruder: Mr. Klasic.]] I'm sorry. Here's to time travel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90258	We're not gonna die, but time goes for everything. Ma'am, Mr. Pavliček and Mr. Sacic will share the time of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90259	Dear Minister, dear colleague Capak, Covid-19 has surprised us all both lay and waist because it is a new and unknown disease. And every country is fighting this pandemic in its own way as much as it knows and can. And in this fight we need to be credible. That is exactly the word that the ruling HDZ often uses crediblely. The Civil Protection Centre is unfortunately just untrustworthy. In fact, over the past two years, he has made hundreds of different decisions that he has often refuted himself. Let's just think of some. Masks serve only as psychological defenses and do not protect against Covid-19. Four months after that mask, they become mandatory in all closed spaces. And then those who make such decisions do not adhere to those decisions, so we see Minister Bozinovic in the Spaladium Arena without a mask on his face, so a few weeks ago we see the present Minister William Beros here at the clock without a mask on his face. Remember also the decisions that children in elementary schools should not hang out on vacation if they are in different classes, while these children on the same bus come to that same school no matter what classes they come from. Let's also remember at the time of the lockdown when we ordinary mortals were locked up in our homes, that some ministers were banking in basements and clubs and hanging out with the president of the state. And then you wonder why people don't believe you, because this is exactly why you're not credible. One of the worst decisions you've ever made is the covid of certificates that have proved to be all ineffective, nor stopped the spread of the pandemic because it's scientifically proven that they can both be vaccinated and unvaccinated and those who have been over once and twice as much as me, and some even three times and that virus continues to spread. And the last thing you did was go into family intimacy and ask for children to be tested in elementary schools with an announcement that they might also be tested in kindergartens. Nor are parents trained to test children and create additional psychosis in both children and parents, and it is scientifically proven that children are just as ill and that children have very mild or almost no symptoms of this disease. And I think it's high time to change approach to covid-19. Namely, as I said today, a few dozen people are suffering from lung cancer in the Republic of Croatia, today a few dozen people are suffering from colon cancer, today a few dozen people have had a stroke, a heart attack, today a few dozen, and perhaps hundreds of children have had carp, measles, but no one is taking care of it, they are not in any statistics. My people, there are other diseases, people dying of other diseases, and especially now that this omicron variant prevails, it's very important that we change our approach because thank God it's not as dangerous and it doesn't have as many fatal outcomes as it is so far. So admit your mistakes and you'll get more trust from the citizens. Is it hard to admit, we're people, we're wrong. Only those who do so and make mistakes, admit that you have made a mistake, admit that you were in the urn without a mask on your face and that you sent the wrong picture, apologize to Croatian citizens and you will have greater confidence in the Croatian people. And precisely because this headquarters is one political headquarters, a party colored headquarters, we believe that only HS can confirm these decisions of the headquarters and only then are the people chosen to have legitimacy, can they discuss it here, and only then can those decisions come into effect, and not so unfortunately that decisions are made in accordance with the political need of the ruling party, and not in accordance with the epidemiological situation in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90260	Mr. Sacic, also the same party and club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90261	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and Associates. Here we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with everything, periodically with the achievements of your struggle, our fight, the Croatian fight against this disease and this virus, and I'm glad that in your introduction, Mr. Minister, it seems to me for the first time that you have pointed out the right word in the right place today that you reached for a hard lockdown, did you not know the enemy well enough. It's a good termology, it's a good approach, and we're all two years ago. We were in such doubts, in such a situation, in such a situation, scared, worried about what and how and how, and when, later you stepped down, we all later deviated from that hard military approach because today no one rational seems to believe that this virus came from and spread through the bat. Today we all follow these social networks, yet they bring so much benefits that we can with great certainty, in fact 100% certainty say that it's a biological weapon designed against humanity. It's not conspiracy theories, it's a fact today. So, if that's a biological weapon, if that's the enemy you say, then we are at war, it's quite understandable that we have to use in a state of emergency all the necessary measures to defend ourselves, and you're unfortunately at headquarters, there's the point of the story, which you didn't at headquarters this military commander covered the whole situation and you focused exclusively on one part of the population, on one part of the Croatian people, and the other part of the very important part, even 50% of the story you marginalized, although you were Satanizing in the public even the high politicians, and even in this home, they gave them such qualifications that the part of the people that didn't get the vaccine you declared terribly difficult this incomprehensible, honoring them with labels, and actually Satanized them in some way, that they should be denied food and water and hospital help, instead, it was the wrong approach. That's what a military commander would never do, and the civil protection headquarters did it. Instead of seeing that one part of the people wanted to be vaccinated, and another significant one did not want to, you had to parallelly create measures to protect life and health and those people who did not just want to offer them one direction when they would not go that way. You had to give them adequate primary health care at a high level, you had to approach them as individuals, okay, that's your attitude, vaccination is not mandatory, you don't want to be vaccinated, but we as a state have an obligation to protect your life and health regardless of what you personally do because we do it to junkies, we do it to alcoholics who kill other people's lives on the highway, we do it to everyone who is fatter, who threatens us in any way, in their own way, in the way of life endangering their health, so we treat them again. And it's humane, civilized, it's the reach of civilization, but you didn't allow this population of people. There's your problem, it's your crime and it's your fault. Secondly, you said yourself, now you've opened an email saying you're in vain calling a doctor hzzo.hr because as many as 3,000 people write you a call doctor doesn't answer for 5 days, and he's sick, he's got a crown, he can't get into the country to say.../incomprehensible/... our phone can't even know how to use either Facebook or anything else to get in touch, to get that doctor's help, it's disabled for them. And that's why you have mortality, which is why you have respirators, which is why you have hospitalization. So here we must make dear ministers far more make people in general [[Intruder: Time Mr. Sacic.]] in this family medicine, let us free ourselves from portions of the work so that we can devote ourselves to the patients and to the ones who [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They didn't vaccinate. [[I wouldn't want to be a violent Mr. Sacic, but...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90262	...time goes by, you wouldn't want to be attacked.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90263	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90264	Yes, please. Now Mrs. Selak Rasdic and Mr. Miletic will share the time of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90265	Minister Beroš you are surprised at me, and I am surprised to you that I urge you to keep on calling for dialogue to come for this pay phone after my presentation and solve the doubts I have and show the citizens that you are ready to cooperate in this pandemic and look for solutions together. Let's not be surprised at each other. Let's avoid suspicion. I am responsible here and I will not deal with politics or even politics, I will deal only with facts, reason and logic and what is stated in this report because only reason and logic can save us in this pandemic, and they are a prerequisite for the safety of the health of our citizens and for the survival of this society at all. Let's take it in a row. In this report, you indicate that only 0.7% of people have reinfected. The incidence of death due to repeated infection is 0.01%. By contrast, there are approximately 30% of those vaccinated between confirmed cases and hospitalized and dead and infected. So, about 3,000 times more threatened than the overexperienced and the greater burden on the health system. Despite the unequivocal fact I'm reading from your report, and it's not the fruit of my imagination rules are the following. The patients need to be tested, the vaccines don't have to. The EU's over-experienced digital Covid certificate is worth 6 months, and by vaccinations 12 and now 9. How's that, Minister? On what reason and logic is this based? Secondly, your research improves the quality of health care. So you did research from 13.12 to 9.1 to improve health care. And what did that show you? It showed you that out of the 69 surgeons who were vaccinated the 4 that you tested, it was still infected. It showed you that of the 571 medics 44 were vaccinated. What's in it for you? An epochal fact which is known to everyone that three times more unvaccinated transmits the virus than vaccinated. Well, we didn't ask you that. Everybody knows that. From this, something quite different and much more important is visible. It is evident that unlike the unvaccinated who are tested for hospital entry and which we are moving away from the patient and from the system and protect the most vulnerable that the vaccines that we have now tested for the first time still carry the virus. What are these four surgeons, what damage could they have done if they hadn't been tested and what kind of spells in all the hospitals because you're not testing them? And instead of drawing a key conclusion from your research called improving the quality of health care and improving the quality of health care, you tested all and vaccinated and unvaccinated because it is not intended to compete in this and show how effective the vaccine is than the aim of protecting especially vulnerable social groups. You ignored your own research and did not improve the quality of health care. Furthermore, the amount of vaccine you ordered and the issue of public procurement. It will remain noteworthy that we have no idea when we will finally return all medical equipment to public procurement and thus raise the control of the Croatian Parliament and the control of the public. This is how the malfeasance area is open. When you talk about the amount of vaccine obtained, what we find is that we ordered almost 19 million doses. In the previous report, you state that it is enough for the needs of all our citizens and with a third dose. In this study and in this report, you indicate that this is enough for us for 4 doses. From that we can only conclude one thing, it's the same amount. You have no idea why you ordered that much, you have no idea what you're going to do with it, and you've thrown a huge amount of money at a vaccine that remains unused. So far, we've donated nearly 2 million doses of vaccine. Poor Croatia under the burden of inflation with such gas bills donates millions of doses of vaccines that remain unused because you misjudged the needs of the Croatian population and not a little wrong, but a lot of wrong, and you state here the wrong data. You removed Covid's certificates for the lottery and Croatian banks that had to be before, and you did not remove them for other state and public institutions. Why is the Minister, which is the epidemiological justification of that? Break prejudices, report to the debate, answer these questions, and we'll really have a pandemic in common.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90266	Thank you very much. Mr Miletic will continue the debate of the Bridge Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90267	Dear Vice President, Mr. Radin, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Minister of Honor, Mr. Capak, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to put the ball down a little bit as far as the sports dictionary is concerned saying, so we have in hand, I hold in my hands a covid certificate, a covid certificate. According to the logic of the presidency, I, if I have this paper, as you would say down the south map, so I'm safe. If Covid comes from the front, so frontal to me maybe it's enough to pick up the paper and make the virus stop, and if some back door starts, then maybe it's enough again to have the paper and it stops. So, we all know that the meaning, the agenda of the covid certificate, was still something different, I dare say, something different. Maybe to make people do something against their consciences. I've been a very clear minister since the beginning here in this assembly, I'm very clear, so we need to protect the older vulnerable groups, plus 70, we need to protect the threats. These people need to talk to their personal physician and then make a decision for their own life in their freedom. I don't believe in a democracy that will force anyone to do something against their conscience, and we have these shadow games that happen in our country. Minister, by the end of last year, we spent a billion 350 million on PCR tests that today show you something already tomorrow could be a man's situation completely different. If we know that one of the latest devices of magnetic resonance Siemens 3.0 TE costs a crumb of more than 14 million kuna, it means that we could buy 90 pieces of the most modern MR device for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that in our country we are waiting for a brain magnet in Zagreb for 427 days and in my beloved Rijeka for a review of cardiologist 365 days. That's the situation we have in particular. Let me be perfectly clear, so I defended you here, not once, you know it well, not once. I defended you even at the 9th month when you didn't succumb to the pressures from Brussels, and I said, man, it's good that we don't introduce covid certificates because of course it doesn't make sense because we know that the vaccines carry the virus, on a smaller scale, we know everything, but the transmissions, so I defended you here, you succumbed. It says in one book, “the truth will set you free, ” you know, only interested in the truth. So when they get out of all those correspondences, Ursules worth 35 billion with the head of Pfizer and that via SMS, I guess that's how these businesses work out, when everything comes out of hiding in secret, then it's going to be much clearer for both the Croatian people and our citizens. Minister, people attacked you when you were at the clock, here we heard your colleagues resent you, without a mask. I don't attack you, I support you in that, you obviously don't wear a mask to some of your private gatherings and gatherings and don't wear it. What are you gonna wear the mask, I was talking about, researching a sharpie so-called Waterloo University says the mask, not protect, protects it says up to 10%-12% of this surgical canvas, so it protects it from covid, so it's certainly a little bit more than when the mayor of Zagreb sets the fence on whether, so what Miro Bulj would tell it, as if the virus of the lambs is whether, not the virus that is going through, we know what he's going through. Minister, you are responsible for preventing infections in hospitals. You should never have let headquarters decide that for hospitals. No headquarters was supposed to replace the covid certificate profession in hospitals, and that's why I can't give you support and you won't have my support. You transferred responsibility to criminals, meteorologists and geologists. Let the Croatian people know which members of the headquarters, geologists. You have washed Pilate's hands of your responsibility for what is your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90268	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the State Movement Representatives Club, Mr. Stipo Mlinarić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90269	Thank you very much, Vice President. Discussing this topic motivated me by a part of the title that apostrophyses the effects, if it were just a report on the implementation of measures under the Law on the Protection of the public, I would let this item of the agenda run past me lazy and insignificantly like the Word of the Wolf in the Danube. But, gentlemen, the rapporteurs, or gentlemen, lords of our freedom and destiny, you, more than any authority, through the history of these spaces, or beyond, willfully and willingly edit, determine and protect our lives. This report can also be discussed without careful study of the text because the terror and consequences of your actions have been suffered for 2 years. Besides, this is today's most serious political problem. Of course, this actual disease, but also a dubious epidemic, has a health weight, but not close to both economic and political. Almost two years ago. The year when a virtual kung fu master from perhaps a virtual or perhaps a virtual American MMA fighter called covid-19 assigned the world and humanity the first series of blows and sent us to lockdown. Our judges in the ring do not stop counting new interruptions, and our counsellors fail to prepare us with their advice to resist an opponent who is mostly used with low blows and a dirty fight. Even our advisors misdirect as if they want us to lose this fight. After this metaphor, we return to reality. There is no doubt that the virus exists. There is no doubt that the virus is spreading. It is clear that humanity and science are trying to resist it with a vaccine, and indeed there have been several similar products on the market that are being presented to us and injected into our bodies, and nowhere is scientific confirmation, nor is it in the interpretation of the World Health Organization that this preparation is what the vaccine is by definition. You can talk about this for hours, but I'll say it for a minute, two of the most important things. My feeling and assessment is that the legislator and these rapporteurs are primarily trying to inject as many vaccines as possible, which is in fact the most vulgar marketing of someone's goods, because if the vaccine is almost no protection from infection, if the vaccine does not prevent the transfer of the infection, if the vaccine does not prevent the fatal consequences of the infection, I ask you why, with so much ferocity, you force young people to be vaccinated. I would understand that the vaccine has a promised 90% effect or later reduced to 70 or even 50%, but the fact that it is doubtful how much more and easier the vaccine is to be infected than the unvaccinated suggests that, in addition to this report on the implementation of measures and the spread of the infection, a report should be made in our country on suppliers of this vaccine and their profits. Why did you, gentlemen, government rapporteurs, members of the crisis department and the Ministry of Health not specifically inform the Croatian public about the characteristics of the vaccine at least to the extent that the manufacturers of the same vaccine informed you. It says, for example, that prior to receiving the vaccine, serious control of the current health condition of the recipient volunteer should be carried out, having insight into his medical records, should be given to a special team and means of first aid if the recipient of the vaccine falls unconscious. If you're following this in the back-up infirmary, for example. Like on Velesim, where are the records of people coming for vaccination? Why the public does not know, and this has also been informed by the vaccine manufacturers that there are diseases to which the vaccine should not go and this series of diseases. I'm going to end up politically because this is primarily a political issue. I will comment on two conflicted sides, promoters and opponents of vaccination. The promoters are much louder, behind them is Europe and the world. From the depths of the European world's deep states, they're screaming, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're yelling, they're screaming, they're crying. Opposite of them are often feared opponents of so-called. Vaccinations with this unproven clock. They say who wants to be vaccinated should be vaccinated, who won't be vaccinated, and then these other attacks and proclaims themselves as light bulbs of death, anti-vaxers, and beautiful labels in the media and everywhere. And Mr. Minister, you haven't answered my question in the replica, when I asked you a specific question and it's certain that it's true that in the last two years since the coronary virus started, the pandemic has not been working for the Croatian defenders systematically. It's 100% true and no systematic examinations are being done. Tell me the hospital where it works, I have friends waiting for 2 years, they haven't come to order, I have friends who ended up in Vukovar Cemetery, daily dies over 15 defenders, there is no headquarters designed to protect this population, and the average of dead defenders is 53 years old, ask your Minister of the Bear, ask Mr Djakic who is not in the assembly who is the average year of death of Croatian defenders. There's no headquarters, there's nothing, we're on our own and nobody's taking care of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90270	Now the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will represent I see Mrs. Dark Taritash first that and then Mrs. Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90271	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These reports have already crossed into the routine of the assembly and have always been written in one of these same models. It's full of data, convincing the provisions of the law, the measures that someone has taken or has not taken, but we still have no insight into the effects of all these laws, regulations, decisions and measures. And what's our report's name? The report is called the Impact Report, instead of these effects, we have a bunch of semi-information that when you strip them all together doesn't mean much. One of the reasons why these data doesn't mean much and why we don't have the right insight is because statistics are bad for us not to say catastrophic. The effects of the measures are bad. The minister can list what he has been doing but there remains one painful fact, and that painful fact says the following. We're under-vaccinated, and a lot of us die too much, too much. I still haven't heard any excess answer to the question of why it is so and how and if it's ever more possible to change it. Even when I think about it, it's too late for that, too. What bothers me especially is that the government and the minister are constantly avoiding a serious discussion about the two main devastating facts that are interlinked. We keep hearing that the measures are balanced, that we saved the tourist season, that we were much softer than many other countries. That may be the case, but a very expensive price has been paid. And the most responsible, government and headquarters have undoubtedly failed. In Croatia every day a bus dies from the crown, sometimes that bus is slightly smaller and sometimes bigger, but every day is a full bus. Why? And it's not true that we're all in the same sauce and it's the same for everyone. We are simply the worst, far worse than the European average, and light years worse than the most successful European countries. In the past few months, Croatia has had three times more deaths per million inhabitants than the EU average, so how is that possible? The answer needs to be asked what's going on here. We do not get answers to these questions even though we keep asking them. That indifference of government and headquarters, that refusal to face the fact that something serious is wrong is what bothers me the most. We have since the start of the pandemic compared to the EU members by the number of people infected in the middle, we are not the worst, we are not the best, but by the number of deaths per million inhabitants we are at the very top of the Union, the 4th in a row. But what's really tragic is that on the daily average we've been dead a million in the last week, and so for some time, we're far from the worst in the Union. Our number is 13.69. The first next country behind us is at 11.1 and the best are at 0.55. Only two other states are over 10, and the 4 is already at 6.72, less than half as much as we have. How is that possible, Minister? Why is this happening to us? Are you all aware that something serious went wrong together? These aren't normal numbers. We have a serious problem, and we all pretend it's irrelevant, so that's not so bad. Minister, I think it's terrible, it's terrible. Croatia must open a serious debate about what happened here. Someone's total incompetence is what we pay for in human lives. So finally become aware of it and gather yourself together. Every day, the bus people go on the road without going back because someone didn't do their job, and I have to say it, and I'm going to keep saying it because it's not sustainable or sustainable anymore. What are the issues, what happened, and whether something will finally be done to change that except for the spilling of chaos and insignificant data that doesn't mean anything to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90272	- Mrs. Crescent. The puljak will continue the discussion of the Centre and GLAS Club on this report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90273	Thank you. The only thing we can say after this 2. The fight with this virus and with this world pandemic that we can say is the result of this fight in Croatia is the fact that we are the 8th country in the world by the number of deaths per million inhabitants, if we consider whether the last census of the population is the 8th country in the world, here we heard 4th in the EU. It's enough as a comment on this report, as a comment on the struggle... As it is not, you think it isn't, I think, the 8th country in the world, so here we are in the world among the first 10, by corruption and by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, it's the Ministers here's your legacy, the legacy of headquarters, the legacy of this government. So the government managed this crisis so well that it's in our 2nd year. pandemics died more people than in the Homeland War. The absolute mistrust of citizens in the body that managed this crisis was also justified, at the beginning of contradictory decisions, not at first here is the whole time management of this crisis, incomprehensible instructions that drove people crazy, here are not only people who were supposed to follow them, but also healthcare professionals of the rules that applied differently to different groups of people, and therefore the end is also the weak fission of people and the great pressure on the units of intensive care. We proposed that at some point the headquarters of national unity, whose purpose was not to be a political body, but to restore the trust of the citizens in this crisis, to give faith in the system, faith in the unity of all, because I really think it is of interest to all of us to get out of this health crisis as soon as possible, to get rid of this virus, so we suggested that we unite and professions, political options, and to show the citizens that we all want to deal with this virus together, and in some way, the messages of that one such body would be easier to receive and listen to, listen better to in public. But this government didn't want to be together. As in some other countries, for example, as regards organisational matters, so developed and better organized countries, say one of the examples has checkpoints for free testing and without a manual, without contacting and needlessly burdening doctors of primary health care, let alone that they are doing so in some offices by which they are epidemiologically enquired, they can freely call them through night-to-night concluded feces, so whether we are rich enough to spend the resources of family medicine on administrative matters. Or another example of Call Center, Call Center for All Information, so the results and the rules of self-insulation, so these rules that are much clearer and simpler in other countries and are not changing at the rate of changing stockings, so in such a single call center, doctors, magistrates and first-rate nurses, nurses and technicians do not change, but staff trained and trained for these jobs, trained staff, so here we are, spending expensive trained specialists on paper printing, telephoning and reading recommendations. Today I'm going to repeat two more years of fighting the virus we have these dramatic results and the success of eight places per mortality in the world. Vaccination of course saves lives, and I call on this opportunity once again all the people who haven't been vaccinated yet, but those who managed the crisis, so you failed to vaccinate our older citizens. More than 90% of mortality in categories 60+ years, if we bring it down to 50+ mortality is 97-98% of all deaths. 50 more than anywhere is 28-29% of citizens over the age of 50 have not been vaccinated at all. You have dramatic warnings here's Dr. I think we all recognize him from the media who pointed out that his last days were particularly difficult, here's his quote. For the last 10 days, an absolute river of severely ill old people who haven't been vaccinated, I couldn't imagine it was possible. So, the effect of fighting the virus for the last two years has been at the top of the number of deaths per million inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90274	Now it's the club of IDS representatives and Mr Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, dear Mr. Capak, colleagues and colleagues, the duration of the pandemic as well as the fact that they have not fully managed to contain either the vaccine or numerous epidemiological measures has led to the emergence in public space of more and more actors who are dissatisfaction and frustration of citizens with a number of restrictive measures, as well as their fear decided to use for their own purposes in this rejecting the authority of science. The Istrian Democratic Assembly has since the beginning of the pandemic defined itself as a scientific approach to preventing the spread of the virus by Corona, with the principle that preserving the health of citizens is the highest priority of any country. Realising, of course, that science has its limits, but scientists have the task of questioning science rather than those who do not have the necessary qualifications and expertise. Public health, public health policies and measures must primarily be the subject of a discussion of scientific and professional public because science is the only authority in the fight against the Coronus virus. We do not see a valid alternative in the immediate solutions of unprofessional people being those of the world of politics, civil society, media, religious authority and others. In the IDS, we believe that the pandemic situation is at a stage where all socially responsible individuals and organisations, all those acting in public space must clearly and unequivocally invite all citizens to be vaccinated and to adhere to all epidemiological measures because this is the only effective way to fight the pandemic which shows clearly the data relating to the sick and died from the divided countries. After all, vaccination is as a public health measure the greatest medical success of the 20th century and today. Professional science must continue to be the first, and even in the case of issues created by it, perhaps now and the most conflict in society, such as the application of Covid certificate and mandatory vaccination. However, always keeping in mind that human freedoms, in particular freedom of choice, are the foundation of all freedoms and that they can only be limited if it is really necessary and scientifically supported. For all the above, we will still be against any attempt to politicise pandemic management. In doing so, I think on the one hand of politicising this 2 year topic and by the ruling ones and I would say even a lack of inclusiveness of a broader consensus because there were opportunities for this and we were prepared to engage in this, which long ago introduced uncertainty and mistrust into institutions, but also the politicisation of the whole situation by those who use fear and frustration of citizens to obtain cheap political points because it should be said. In all, there should be one limit, not only the limit of good taste but also the limit when political play ceases and social responsibility arises. Responsibility to people and space where we live. Responsibility to the citizens we represent and the country we represent. It's the minimum we're expected to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90276	Thank you very much. And we still have time before we take a stand for a discussion of the club, the HDZ Representatives' Club, to represent a colleague of President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90277	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleague Capak, I've actually imagined this exposure quite differently and I've written myself some hints, but I'm going to start it not as I imagined it, but rather significantly different. I must express my own, my fear, and my surprise when I listen in public space, read, watch, and here, in this assembly, what everything and who is sovereignly discussing this pandemic, about this viral disease. People who have absolutely no medical knowledge are being called on to report that they speak sovereignly. That's scary. If I, for example, who I'm an education doctor now begin to claim that the Peljek Bridge, which is otherwise an epochal achievement, could be built without, for example, the 3 or 4 supporting pillars set up, you'd probably think that something was wrong with me or that I was talking nonsense and it was stupid because I don't understand it at all, and you see in the covid epidemic, to the extent, in the treatment, everyone understands, absolutely everyone. Which all the guilty data could be heard here is also frightening, from the claim that we are the world's first mortality, it was the claim of one of our colleagues, to the claim that we are the first in Europe, it was the same claim here made, one and the other incorrectly, falsely, to the story of, for example, the covid certificates which we invented and that we are the only country that has a covid certificate, and not that any single EU country has abolished the covid certificate. And now what to think about in the end. Let's actually go back to the text of the report. Responsible behavior, adherence to measures, primary vaccination, testing, what makes it possible? This enables the preservation of health in the first place, but also the operation, work, work for people, production, transport, education, all of this makes it possible. This is the point of the general good and responsibility of the state, and then of course the government, and then, of course, the headquarters and they do it for all these reasons to preserve people's health, to enable society to function, to preserve jobs and to come into a position to overcome this huge crisis, the biggest pandemic crisis in the last 100 years. caused by covid. It should be made very clear because it was also entirely wrong to claim that the main characteristic of the hospital health care organisation in this 4th wave is the beginning of the 5th wave, because this report refers to it, everyone talked about everything and everything, at least this period that we are talking about, and they insisted, they insisted that every 3 months a report be submitted. I personally think it's pointless, but once we've voted it out, some minister has to sit there and listen to the wise thoughts spoken from this pay phone and he'll certainly dramatically improve the situation with covid because that's what we're going to enlighten him. Therefore, the main feature of the hospital protection organisation is that, with the provision of sufficient facilities for the optimal care of these patients with covid-19 in hospital institutions as far as possible, regular work is maintained for all patients who are not positive for covid-19. And now that you look at the report you see that during this period the work of the hospital was not exclusively focused on treating patients with covid-19 which is normal, the emphasis was placed on ensuring timely and continuous hospital care of emergency and priority patients, for example oncological, all emergency patients, no emergency patient remained in Croatia without necessary protection and other patients who needed and fast hospital healthcare. The new organisation of the work of hospitals that made it possible was the result of the high cleavage of medical staff in hospitals, which was not easy to achieve. At first, it was problematic, better with a doctor, less good with the rest of the staff, and then a great deal of effort was achieved by the high cleavage of her healthcare staff. This was achieved by introducing so many mentioned, hated, and I don't know what not a covid certificate in hospitals, but of course also acquired scientific knowledge, expertise and experiences in previous waves of epidemics. Unlike some waves of pandemic in the world in countries far richer than Croatia, where doctors were in situations where they had to decide whether a person A or a person B would put on a respirator or put on an ECMO machine, which was a terrible moral burden for these colleagues in these countries, unlike the fact that more countries had to transport patients to neighbouring countries in order to get proper medical assistance in Croatia did not happen at all, in Croatia which so terriblely criticized both the health system and the health system and the ministry and all together, in Croatia we were nowhere near that we were not even close to running out of respirators. In a few hospitals when there were insufficient respirators in the same day were transferred from other hospitals where there were plenty of them in these hospitals and no patient who was supposed to be on the respirator, who was supposed to be on high oxygen flow, was left without it, who should have left ECMO without it. But we're terribly bad at it all together, at least judging by some of our colleagues we've had a chance to hear. In this reporting period vaccination started with a booster dose and we know that the booster dose significantly protects against the most severe forms of disease and death. About 67% of the adult population was able to split up with it. No one's happy with it and it's not enough and it's clear to everyone that it's not enough. But why is that happening? Because these people sitting there are incompetent, are they the ones to blame? Let us see what kind of atmosphere is created in society, so rarely when so many hate speechs can be heard from people who claim to care for others, to do so out of love against others, to do so out of love against freedom, freedom, and democracy. Democracy isn't anarchy, freedom doesn't mean I can go through the red light at the intersection no matter how much I'm in a hurry, just because I'm free. When these people finally realize it, maybe they'll see it through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90278	Thank you very much, thank you. In Naples, they went through the red all of them, and they would go through the green because they knew that they were going through the red. We continue the debate and now it's Mr. Zeljko Ostojić's turn. What? Excuse me, Rajko, I'm taking off my glasses and correcting Mr. Rajko Ostojić, Social Democrats' Club, forgive Rajko. [[Storm from the bench: Rajko Ostojić]] But if you take off your mask, I'll hear you better. If you take off your mask, I'll hear you better. Here, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90280	I will speak briefly to Mr. Minister on the trail of your report not written but to your oral speech on the 4th subject, which is the percentage or incidence of fissure, mortality. It's not morbidity. It's mortality. Third, some of your recent decisions about the organization of family medicine doctors, nurses. Fourth no less important, as you yourself have said, I quote the question of the sustainability of tourism. And if I can get to the fifth thing about preventing future systematic checks on our defense attorneys. You invited opposition parties to speak honestly, openly and transparently, so I don't doubt that you've received great information and opinions from our opposition parties. But I was surprised that the parties that are part of the ruling coalition, so the club represented by Mrs. Martincevic and Klasic generally spoke as though they were in opposition. In principle, they attacked the Staff, gave negative assessments, and in principle it turns out that the coalition is not as firm as it looks, or it's just a public play. I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that you said very much to my question two, three hours ago that there was no controlled epidemiological situation regarding mortality, that you were thinking of something other than an epidemiological mortality situation. Because mortality is truly terrible in Croatia. As you yourself said a year ago when 25 to 30 people died that the situation was bad, with reason you called for vaccination. If it was bad and a disaster then it's worse now, even more catastrophic, and that's something to point out in your report. So it's a good thing you said the situation wasn't controlled, though. On that trail I really think it might have been a lapsus calami or a lapus computer, I don't know what expression we're going to say. This report either needs to be changed or it needs to be lifted, because it seems to me that they're copy pastes. We call in it to historical gains, and we're not talking about the metrics, we're not talking about the facts. So let's take it in a row. The cleavage is bad, not enough. It doesn't matter who's to blame, I'm not looking for the culprit at all, it doesn't matter if we hang a Pedro, but it's crucial who's responsible. Whoever ran the campaign is responsible. So, Staff, Croatian Institute of Public Health. They're all responsible, and they just have to say it's wrong. Take responsibility for what you said yourself. Try to place yourself, Mr. Minister, because you are elected to the Croatian Parliament, in the position of opposition parties, and there are two former ministers, one current and at least four, five future ministers. I view Renata Sablar-Dračevac as perhaps a future minister or on this side Maja Grba-Bujevic as a future minister. So, there are candidates like in the story. And every one of us, like you said, must be responsible. The percentage of vaccination in Croatia is a disaster. The percentage of mortals in Croatia is a disaster. We can practice statistics and you've said eight good reasons, but in those 8 reasons, I've already told you in reply to the replica that the parameters of Croatia and the European Union are different. It can't be statistics. He can't and he can't. Because if the statistics are wrong, then our data is even worse. Because this mortality data refers to 4.2 million people, not 3.8 million people. So we should be even worse. And here let's be careful, let's admit it in concrete and clear statistics is bad, statistics is a disaster and once again thank you for saying that the situation isn't controlled. I really don't understand who suggested it. I really don't get it. You're ending unfortunately for the reason of the testing checkpoints, the vaccination checkpoints. So we're shutting down the vaccination checkpoints. In Zagreb, half the vaccination checkpoints were shut down. There are personnel, people, experts. And instead of those places that you unfortunately abolished, not you, but for a reason. People don't come to vaccination, turn into test points because you have everything. You put that job on the burden of family medicine doctors. That's consistent with common sense, it's just not normal. You have everything, an organized system, and you simply burden the doctors of family medicine who have responded for a reason. I'm here completely, completely, entirely on their side even though you're sending them now and again someone probably forced you to send them threatening messages, you're opening a doctor's email application. You open an e-mail address, you put it on the front page, on Hall, on the search. Whoever advised you to get him away from you, he doesn't want you well, he doesn't want you to believe me. Not just that. A little while ago, I commended you for being an extremely decent man, I really mean it. We know each other very, very well, but sometimes you do too. You say to the doctor and their sisters. I don't see any reason why someone who's done medical, and even for his sister, a nurse shouldn't be too hard. The nurses are our pillar. One media house put them together with ten people in a competition for the best person, an individual last year. They'll certainly be the first to treat nurses with underestimation, but I believe you're tired, the situation is not good. As you said yourself, the situation is uncontrollable, we have a lot of deaths and everything else. Yes, tourism is, as you yourself said, a question of our survival, a final quote. I don't think it's a question of survival. I think tourism is a dangerous thing for us Croats, so we don't turn into waiters and servers. But here we are, every fourth kuna comes from tourism and let's do it. You're coming right out of that constituency, Mr. Minister. You've received the highest number of preferential votes from all of us MPs. It's your responsibility. It is your extra responsibility, that we have the slightest vaccination from your constituency, the smallest, don't call on the mayor and other things, that's your extra, extra, extra responsibility, and we simply expect the situation to improve. Eight reasons, people don't respond to vaccination, you say, preventive checks say you people don't respond to preventive checks, you say you doctors of family medicine don't work enough, so we'll report them, you hold a doctor, you hold a thief, of course under quotes, you say you sisters could do a test, you probably say you're so educated, and eventually someone put you back in your speech that EU statistics are not comparable. It's comparable after 2 years, certainly comparable. Some countries, I apologize, statistics of certain countries. [[Clip intrusion: Statistics of individual countries]] But that goes one step further, Mr. Minister. Now, after the people who respond poorly, after the nurses, after the doctor, we blame the statistics. Let's not do that, let's not do that. I've commended your statistics on 116 people, and here I totally think it's okay, and I also think that mortality statistics are a disaster. I repeat, you put yourself in your head if you were an opposition representative of what the Minister of Health would say, what would the Minister of Health who is in the state with catastrophic mortality and a catastrophic percentage of fissure say, what would you say? Whatever they say I sign, here's what they'd say, but don't say people are guilty because those same people chose you, they chose you, and now they're guilty in your county. You have to decide, it's a simple fact. Prevention, you mentioned prevention, Stipo Mlinaric told the truth, checks, systematic examinations of defenders were cancelled throughout a number of hospitals. I know that because I'm a defense attorney, I'd go through with it, I don't have anywhere, they've been canceled, they've been doing a great thing, we've been doing it, and now they've been canceled, and that's the fact, Stipo's right there. And in the end, I call on all those who have not yet been vaccinated to vaccinate and our parliamentary deputies also to be vaccinated because we protect ourselves, our loved ones and all those who cannot be vaccinated. Just one more word. Vaccination saved Mr. Vice President more human lives than any medical intervention, from any surgeon, neurosurgeon, gastroenterologist, psychiatrist, vaccination saved millions of lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90281	Thank you. Now really, Zeljko, now I say this correctly, Mr. Zeljko Lenart, the club of representatives of HSS and RF, please. How? ... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90282	Here's the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is one issue that is very difficult to discuss for us who are not doctors because when we question some things like this, then they often say that you have no idea, you're not a doctor. Here are some of my colleagues and colleagues who threw trees and stones at me because I'm an agronomist, so I'm talking about this, although they were lawyers, even though I listened to chemistry and biochemistry and microbiology, so there's something I know about viruses, not as much as people who deal with science from the medical profession, but far more than those colleagues. That I had time for 18 years. I'd probably end up and right so that if I knew how to fight in that legal area, it might be easier for me to do the same and get more, probably more of those things. I've been talking here about what I'm supposed to talk about, it's like a national representative, like the representative who's been elected by the regiment to come here and talk about their problems. Although I may not be an expert in some branches of science, I always stick to the life of the one that I don't know, I'd be the smartest person in the world, even though there are smarter ones, but there are other ones. That a lot of mistakes were made in this pandemic through the work of the headquarters and the work of the government. Unfortunately, though, they admitted to themselves these mistakes if they had admitted these mistakes themselves, perhaps a different strategy would have been. The last time I spoke here about the pandemic and the problems our citizens have from covid certificates, from vaccinations, from all those problems presented to them, there were 1,400 infected, today there are over 10,000. Although since then we have covid certificates and vaccinations, here yesterday I watched 64.95 if I'm not mistaken, over 2.5 million people have been vaccinated in view of the new list. In the past month, when we had an average of 10,000 a day, 300,000 became infected, and I got over the last month, I was alive, and I didn't take anyone's bed, nor the respirator, and I was treated alone and thanks to my family doctor who followed me and wouldn't let any more severe symptoms or difficult forms of disease develop. That's exactly what I mentioned to the minister that unfortunately that guidance which may have been made according to doctors of general practice has gone away might not be good enough. Unfortunately, our family practice doctors are, the medicine is overloaded, there are few with greater or less knowledge, but these are our doctors we have. Perhaps they needed more opportunities and more time for their patients and perhaps needed to come up with a program of some kind of preventive therapy at national level that could help avoid getting pneumonia or some difficult forms. I experimented on my own in passing through the disease. The second day I drank one of Klavo's fevers fell on me and held me until the next day to normal and then I grew. So I'm talking to you by heart, I'm not a doctor, but I'm telling you what's out of life. Covid's receipts, and Covid's receipts were nicely said by his colleague Reiner, we didn't make it up here, they came from Europe. It is clear to me that if you want to travel through the EU or where you have to participate in having the same Covid certificate, but if we had to push it so hard for those who do not want to travel, for those who want to go to their jobs. And then you ask yourself if this certificate makes sense if you have to show Covid at 4 p.m. when you get on the tram, you don't have to sit on each other, on the bus, in another public transport. Well, it's clear to all people that she was forced to achieve as much fissure as possible, but then that's what needs to be said. Why did we force the young ones? My daughter and my son were vaccinated, so you don't think I'm an antivaxer, so I defended my children. Why has my son been vaccinated? Because he's a student and because he has obstacles that have been set up for him and he can't normally study and function and the man has caved in and gone into vaccination. We know that younger ones develop milder symptoms, that they have no harder symptoms. Why didn't we think about it? I'm not against testing. It was never a problem for me to go to the test to see if I was positive or not, but PCR testing was sometimes so aggressive that my partner living with me for three weeks had a numb face from a injured nerve. So 33 years after vaccination, the woman had severe symptoms, that night she thought she was going to die because when she had the symptoms for 5 days she waited for the test, she was negative even though she had isolated herself, and then she had a big problem from the vaccination. But I don't want to talk about it. When we talk about it, then you're an antivaxer, then you're the enemy of this people, she doesn't want you to, then, let some survive, I guess you want everyone to die. Dear gentlemen, we must also be aware of certain biological things. I would sign a contract with God tomorrow to live 90 years, which I probably won't reach because of the pace of life and everything we've been through today. But we need to be realistic, let's not work for some multinational pharmaceutical companies they have that can buy from their interest this country. Everyone orders abnormal amounts of vaccines that are being destroyed. What did we spend the money for? For what? Of course, it is necessary to make sure that it is available, of course, for those who want to be vaccinated and to allow even the choice of vaccines they want, but you don't have to tell anyone, not directly, of course, but indirectly. Do you think the people of Croatia don't recognize it? He recognizes, fear is the greatest human enemy. What's the man most afraid of? He's afraid to die. And those who say they're not afraid, they're afraid. If otherwise approached, the percentage of vaccines would likely be higher today. But, of course, people who were scared that the vaccine had been tested at first, that people didn't believe that there were people who were scared. So she was scared on the one hand, and on the other hand the choice was very small, or you're going to be vaccinated, so it's all open or you're not going to be vaccinated, so nothing's open to you. I haven't been vaccinated. I haven't been infected in two years. Now I wanted to get infected by thinking that it's an omicron that might lead to the end of that pandemic, and I realize that we all need to get infected because when you put the math in and you add up everyone who's been positive, then you come up with that we're very close. We're not that far. But there are people here the day before yesterday I was at the funeral of a Croatian soldier, a Colonel of the Croatian Army who had been in a war since the first day where, I talk to people, people have been vaccinated three times and have been positive twice afterwards. So if you're positive, it means you can infect each other on a larger or smaller scale, but you can. That's what we have to say clearly, that's how it is. And then the ones who are vaccinated and they're gonna make sure that when they start sniffing to isolate themselves, they get tested. This is how they think, brother, that they're folk heroes, that they can walk wherever they want, that they can't infect anyone. And then, normally, it's a disease. Let's try to be more realistic, let's not think and watch people get high and think they're stupid no matter where the educational level is. People read today, everything is available and bad and good, but let's help them choose what's good and believe what they think is useful and trust this Croatian government finally because after all these affairs, all the mistakes and ministers personally and institutionally and the headquarters and everyone, people make fun of, they convince things, and we come here where we are that no one else trusts anyone else with a minister. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90283	Mr. Damir Bajs will speak in front of the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90284	Mr. Chairman in front of the Focus Club and the independent representatives, I'll look back at today's agenda. When the pandemic of the Corona began a few years ago, it was somewhere far away in China, but almost overnight it approached Europe, Croatia and in general the whole world. At the time, everyone we talked to was actually optimistic, thinking that Croatia is in the EU, that we have the possibility of touching information, knowledge, and one day, vaccines and medicines. And that was some sort of guideline. We are a modern country with a good health system, and in this way we would expect good results when we talk about the crown and the fight against the crown. And that's right. Both the government and the ministry and the health minister have often said they agree with everyone else in the EU and beyond. But this fight is quantifiable, measured through numbers after it has covered the whole world of pandemics we can compare how successful we were in fighting the crown. Have we taken advantage of our advantages? What could possibly be the problem and where else? Croatia in statistics publicly published and this moment when we speak to an EU country which is one of the least divided countries in the EU. Only Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia are behind us. That's what the minister himself indicated. There's also a series of statistics that are even more important. Croatia is now the ninth or eighth country by mortality in the world, not in the EU. She was at some point on a weekly base of land with the most dead in the world. So what happened to us? How is it even possible for Croatia with such health care, with such access, everything we need to be the first to die and even one week or two. And I said, the Minister of Health, we called him General. He accepted the comparison and came forward, said generals make decisions, make them quick, that these decisions must be bad sometimes but that the army must listen. If he's the Minister of Health and our Civil Protection Staff, it's a good question that someone might not have listened. Whether or not the instructions they made, the decisions they made, which were in good interest, maybe the health care didn't listen, I don't think. Healthcare professionals have done everything in their power, and even more so, from general practice, hospitals, emergency medical care, all those who work in health care. They've done a lot more than they've ever done before under ever more difficult conditions. Maybe school failed, schools didn't listen to instructions. Not really, schools listened to that. Could it be the citizens' fault? I'd say that's impossible. I can't be a citizen to blame for what's going on. And then when we talk about it, then we'll say that maybe politics is guilty, maybe we're in the Parliament. However, there may be something else wrong, and there may have been bad decisions. Because it's possible that we're the first in the world, even if it's two weeks after death. The European country, civilized in the European Union with good health. Are the citizens of Croatia so insubordination? No, they're not. Did the generals eventually make the wrong decisions? Or the general when we're talking about the minister? I must stress everyone we've been to the Homeland War, and there is, of course, we appreciate our generals. But, of course, some were better, some a little less better. That's how it's worth it now. So the effects of the total measures that we are now talking about regardless of what the material has a hundred pages of statistics is all about these two facts of how vaccinated we are and how much died. And we can't even boast about it. Does that mean we need to do something about change? I'm sure it is. Differently accessing the total of what led to last year's resulting in 63,000 deaths in Croatia seem to me. That's 13,000 more than usual. The highest number of deaths since the age of forty-five and yes, covid is the second cause of mortality in the Republic of Croatia. The minister said maybe for statistics, maybe all of these world statistics aren't right. In fact, it's about some other elements. But ultimately, we always get the same thing. If statistics are such figures are clear, and how we're going to interpret them we can always do that. So I must stress that there are people with a name and a last name behind these statistics. All of you, including me, know some who have suffered from the crown, who died of the crown, our friends, acquaintances, and certainly can't be blamed for what they died. Do you need to promote vaccination? Of course you should. I haven't actually heard from anyone in this House that he said no one should be vaccinated and we should all work on it, so I agree with the minister, but I don't agree with any other things. On the other hand, there are huge deviations in Croatia when we are talking about vaccination. The city of Zagreb is the most vaccinated city, the least vaccinated is Split-Dalmatia County and unfortunately Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, which was once among the first and is now the last in Croatia. The numbers clearly show that. We need to turn to people and we need to create trust for them. You do not have a sociological framework for the total of what is happening in Croatia. In fact, people's trust in their government is, in some ways, very much related to the percentage of vaccinations, which will say that, for example, Denmark, which has one of the most trust in the government, has the most recently vaccinated. That goes for Scandinavian and other countries. We have on the way to be told one of the lowest trusts of the people to the government of the Republic of Croatia and this is probably seen in this vaccination. Is this the consequence of some inconsistency, change in something, constant measures that are changing, or the fact that, for example, there are some differences in the view of government advice when we talk about this case, crowns. Yeah, we're politicians, but let's just remember what professor said a few days ago. Branko Kolaric, who is otherwise a member of the government's council and who said so. When the evaluations are done in Croatia, everything turns out to be great, and at the same time we have a large number of both sick and dead. Of course everything isn't great when we have a lot of sick and dead. Of course, then citizens who do not follow measures are frustrated by the spread of the virus as large as they are because of a lot of dying. That's too bad. That's too bad. That's not what I'm saying as a politician. That's what a member of the government council of the Republic of Croatia says. And when we talk about other doctors, I think this short quote says everyone. Mr. Luka Chichin-Shain, a high blood tax that we will pay... immunity of the herd in Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are many other such statements by experts from the government of the Republic of Croatia that make it clear that they have a different opinion than the President of the Council. Let's look into the future, let's create some trust, let's take a step to see what the plan is to fight the crown further, measures must obviously change to some extent, more people need to split up, let's work in those counties, cities or municipalities where we have an extremely small number of split, special measures, etc. What we need is if I'm gonna start with this, I'm gonna finish what I started with. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, there is no reason for Croatia to be the first to die in the world at any time, and the last to be split in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90285	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Ivana Kekin, will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90286	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and colleagues. 15.9. last year was my first working day in the assembly, and I started it with a free speech in which I gave a clear and loud warning of the record-low separation of Croatian citizens and asked the ruling what their plan was, because at that time it seemed that all the plan to fight the pandemic could be brought to mind in a sentence "who lives who lives who dies". It was a late summer, the tourist season was great, it was warm, the stories of the 4th wave were not interested, part of the opposition attacked us and called on fearers calling for measures, ruling us of course ignored, and we called for a strategy and action with a clear goal, a drastic increase in population fissure and not only us but also the entire scientific community. Namely, as we warned at the time the 4th wave was imminent, the numbers began to grow in predictable order of the first, then hospitalized, then dead. A month and a half later in 24.10. we learned that at that time a high number of 27 people died, so what we would give today is that we have 27 citizens daily dead, that it's all a matter of perspective, but then a high number of deaths, we learned that this number wonders the prime minister and minister while in the morning with coffee commenting on the numbers. Of the strategy, of the action, and then, of course, the goal of the greater fissure was certainly nothing. Soon, the prime minister who was less and less questioned about the number of tourists, and more and more about the number of free beds in hospitals began to sulk at the citizens. He demonstratively raised his hands from his work, leading our society into a crisis under the password “I made everything possible for them, and if they will not, they themselves are to blame. ” He explained that he didn't think of a campaign to promote vaccinations, he didn't think of anyone trying to get them to be vaccinated, he didn't think of people being vaccinated as well. He obtained the vaccine and told everyone nicely that they were being vaccinated and that their responsibility had ceased. This is how reality was interpreted by the prime minister and, of course, once again for failure, he blamed others, not himself, not the minister you chose, not the headquarters he put together, and in the fall, he sharpened the thing, hospitals were filling up, scientists were warning, doctors begged to do something about it. There was nothing to do, weigh, doubt, think, combine, and do not seem to be done because when it sails from ratings to ratings, then there is no room for hard moves. In fact, in order to satisfy everyone’s tastes in scientific advice until a relatively recent sitting, a man who continuously relativated the seriousness of covid and who repeatedly questioned the usefulness of vaccination from the scientific advice took off only when he compared the prime minister with Tito because he also had the prime minister’s limit. At the same time, they are introduced into September covid certificates in health where from personal experience, and from experience colleagues, barely anyone is checking them, and there deep, deep in November when the number of newly ill delta variants goes more than 7,000 per day, the covid certificates are introduced into public and state services. And once again we warn them that it is not good what they do, that such measures should be taken by consensus of the two-thirds majority in the assembly, that they will antagonise the public, that the virus does not recognise state and public servants, that there is no point in having covid confirmation while you are sitting alone in the office, but not having it in a crowded shopping centre, but we are talking in the empty, both we scientists and doctors and doctors and nurses are talking in vain. At the beginning of the 12th, the first news of the new strain comes. Western countries approach the precautionary situation, we pretend like so many times that nothing happens. The omicron spreads on the rocket drive, unstoppingly bypasses the immunological barriers and those acquired by the disease and the vaccine acquired, and thus does indeed make almost every possible measure, including such covid certificates as we now have completely pointless. There's one positive news coming from the west. The numbers of the newly ill are rampant, but the numbers of the hospitalized and the numbers of the dead do not grow. With relief, many have accepted the serviced news by neglecting the most important difference between us and the Western EU countries. In fact, these countries have been able to convince their population that the vaccine is useful. Some, however, did not have to convince the population. There people trust their governments to work in their public interest, imagine that. Somewhere well-designed and well-oriented campaigns have been carried out. However, the cleavage is higher than 80% with 2 doses, and they are boostered quite well. Porgual 94%, Spain 88%, Denmark mentioned today, Iceland, Italy 83%, Croatia 56%. And that's the key difference between us and them. They're growing as never before, but thanks to high cleavage, precisely due to high cleavage, their hospitalized and dead numbers are not growing as opposed to us. With us precisely because the government failed to secure the fissure, which raised its hands from the campaign on behalf of the holy rating in us the dying rivers of sick old men to quote one of those who are really on the front line. Croatia is if we look at the entire period of the pandemic from February 2020 to February 2022 at 9th place in the world by the mortality of Covid per million inhabitants, where there was a drastic increase just last 2021 when we had the vaccine. So when all others and those who were seriously injured in the first waves like Portugal or Italy fall, Croatia is growing to the point that we are now by the death of a mild oxidation first in the world of a million inhabitants because the tactics I spoke about in 15.9., which can be understood by the sentence who lives, who dies. And to be clear, it is not a matter of those who died of Covid and those who died with Covid, namely, for decades in Croatia, 51 to 52,000 people died. In 2020 57,023 died and in 2021 when we have a vaccine, the number of deaths was 63,611. So, as many as 11,000 people as in pre-pandemic times. And it's not that we have an old and sick population because we had it in 2019, and it's not that the measures affected the patients could not reach their doctors because the measures in terms of limiting the cold drive were not even in 2021, but simply pre-filled hospitals in 3.4 and now 5 waves make it impossible for the normal functioning of the health system. And it is not a matter that the vaccinated spread the infection through the health system and thus caused high mortality because none of the Western countries highly vaccinated tested vaccinated at the entrance to the health system, yet they have a low mortality that hasn't been growing since last spring. The truth is painful and tragic, the rivers of sick and unvaccinated people flooded our health system. People died alone and in torment without any of their own because they had not been vaccinated, because children told them not to split, because Croatian institutions, Croatian governments, Croatian ministers and Croatian headquarters cannot be trusted. Others, many and vaccinated patients from other diseases could not reach their doctors because they were exhausted, exhausted, frustrated, helpless, giving their last atoms of strength to the Covid departments. And we're where we are. Whoever lives, who dies, we'll end up dead if Covid doesn't surprise us with a few more letters of alphabet with 15 out of 20,000 dead when we're done with this pandemic. Who will be responsible for the national tragedy we live in? The compromised headquarters, Minister Beros, Prime Minister Plenkovic? Who will be responsible for us being again as in so many other aspects at the bottom of both the EU and the world, and in a situation where the bottom is not measured in kunas or in euro, but in wooden ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90287	Thank you very much and now as you know, yes, you have a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90288	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90289	A break, no...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90290	No, a very respected chairman of the Rules of Procedure would.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90291	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90292	That's right. Thank you very much. I am reporting in breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 238(1), paragraphs 4 and 5, because my colleague Kekin, except that she was disdaining the representatives and the Croatian public, has deviated from the usual speech that predominantly takes place in the work of the Croatian Parliament. She scares, she manipulates, she even delivers incorrect data, and all to impose her thesis on the well-being of the vaccine. Despite all the facts. [[Time, thank you very much.]] That's why she needs a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90293	I'd like to comment on this first if it were a replica of course going with all due respect Mr. Sacic's warning. I would say that many of these speakers from different positions feared the media, networks and other things, vaccines, conspiracy theories that, that something like this, that some strategic military matters were in question, and that they weren't bats, etc., this everyone here was saying I didn't warn anyone. How can I remind Mrs. Kekin now? It was a replica. That's all I can say. And I can say another thing to be asked from the technical service by a technical break of 28 to 14 and 35 for those technical problems they always have, they have to interrupt at a certain point for streams... Yeah, 35, 14,35. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] [[It's 2:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.36 HOURS]] We start with individual discussions, the first is Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to dedicate this individual debate to those who are the most burdened during this pandemic, and these are health workers. We've, as you know, been mobilized for two years and we're overloaded. We're all sick of pandemics, the first of us, whether we work in hospitals, Covid departments, intensive units, etc. There, we hear that we are also called in this home that we doctors have to talk about the welfare of vaccination. So I'm still calling for reason, if the waist won't talk about it, I don't know who will. We heard in this report that, i.e. we can see that finally a comparative analysis of data was made for September, October and November 2019 compared to 2021 for primary health care, so family medicine, preschool child protection, women's health care and dental health care, where the number of visits, the number of persons examined and the number of procedures, so also in family medicine, is very much working. I've already talked a lot about the burden of the hospital system. Therefore, it is clear to our citizens how much work is done in hospitals, that they are burdened, of course, not only by infectologists and pulmologists, so Covid suffers from the profiles of all healthcare professionals and nurses and doctors, and not just those who specialize in infectious diseases. Unfortunately, many citizens think that because the halls are half empty, and the phones in the offices are busy, doctors and other staff are doing nothing, resting, getting away with Covid. Many citizens spit on us, insult us, call us Satans, because we appeal to follow measures and to split. Protesters yell against measures while in hospitals people fight for breath, and employees fall off their feet. I have already mentioned that almost 40% of doctors suffer from combustion syndrome, as many as 70% of sisters struggle with anxiety and depression. Many citizens have become indifferent to the suffering of others, as if it were two separate worlds. But you, as a minister, have never once stepped in defense of health care professionals and objectively presented to the public how much we are doing, how much we are burdened. On the contrary, you attack some colleagues and colleagues at a personal level, you call them, you call them unemployed, instead of sitting at the same table, listening to the problems we face and how we solve them. Many times I have really well-intentioned you to invite colleagues in family medicine primarily because there are the biggest disputes, sit down, talk and solve problems together. Family medicine solves 80% of people who aren't hospitalized, and for them you didn't predict a special Covid award at all. Instead, a colleague of Bubaš from the Institute of Public Health addresses them as responsible for increased mortality and inadequate treatment. And right now doctors are wasting half their working hours on administration on testing. There's that list of offices you should be conducting testing, but you can find that if you give yourself a hard time on the Internet, many citizens don't even know that because you didn't inform them, and then they come to their doctors looking for testing, and you first announced to those same family doctors through the media that they would have to test, but you didn't leave them enough time for human resources and infrastructure organization. So they warned you about it, begged you to sit down and talk, but that didn't happen. Instead, here, we saw in public mail that all citizens who can't get to their family doctor to contact the mail. Of course, the first thing that matters to me as healthcare workers is that every citizen and every patient of ours, they are at the heart of our system, but you have to listen and respect everything that healthcare professionals do. From KOHOM itself, you are told that this doctor’s application that patients cannot get on the phone just because they are overloaded will not solve your problem. So, with unnecessary administration, family doctors must also vaccinate in offices, at checkpoints, mandatory BAT testing, contacts of patients, PCR testing, so they are sent, issued various certificates, excuses, on duty at Covid clinics, changing their sick colleagues, etc. So it's fortunate that through the media you can see more and more how much work is done, how many doctors of family medicine are doing, that every day they are burdened with 150 to 200 contacts, people are calling, sending emails, Viber, this, what, of course some come into the offices and then turns out, of course, that some can't get to their family doctor. Problems to Discuss [[Thank you. Thank you.]] Not attack. [[/Intruder: Maric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90296	You have one replica. You have one replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90297	Ma'am. The parliamentary representative is a doctor, so the issue of the Varazdin hospital, several times here she is, mentioned in the context of the medical staff infection on patients. Can you comment on this situation from the doctor's point of view and as an objective situation that you are certainly familiar with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90299	Thank you very much. So I have already indicated in the replica what I cannot chew as a doctor, that, with all that we, of course, have to question and whether it is working at the level of the profession, whether it is working at the level of the Staff, the Government, the Ministry, etc., this is nevertheless, of course, the political arena, but primarily listens to science and profession, so I as a doctor cannot accept that the unverified thesis is being presented and that we are constantly saying that our patients, here, come to hospitals and there health professionals infect them. That they're infected by surgeons in operating rooms. So how can someone say that without checking our equipment, and what is the objective situation? I get here, you know I'm really trying to be honest and correct. I checked, of course, what was the situation at the Varazdin hospital, where they tested the entire departments, all the healthcare workers, there were no positive ones. There are patients who are originally coming negative, so the incubation turns out to be positive. What about that employees who were infected until there were no vaccinations from patients, that's not what anyone's asking. [[Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90300	Ma'am. Maric, let me not be negative, Ten seconds more than we've been able to handle. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But here you go. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Marin Miletic, I know he's here and the pay phone's been cleaned, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90301	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Mr. Radin, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Prices are wild, inflation is huge, the crowds are getting bigger, they say coffee will grow to 20, 30 kuna, a cup of coffee, they say it's questionable whether the citizens will be able to make ends meet, and then we wonder why? Okay, the reason is a few but one of the main reasons is lockdown, closing. Here in the Croatian Parliament we had representatives of the left who called for us to be in the basements, in the basements to close ourselves behind some iron locks, to lower everything and not to go out for a year, and this is all paid by the Croatian people, and that is now an obvious fact, and so that it is not always to criticize you ministers it is good that you did not succumb to all that madness of pandemic marketing then to people who are afraid because we know it in '91. I mean, let's be realistic, so not everyone's even built to be heroes, the homeland defense came, and the hop team went a little soft on Berlin, Munich so-called. Munich combat, back in '96. And now we're gonna explain it to all of you, and they're scared. But good and that's human, and people don't need to be disappointed because they're scared. So in times of crisis, the Croatian state should have responsible, responsible people in power who can manage, who can lead, who are not afraid of their shadows. And then it would be great, and now there's criticism, so that we have statesmen who aren't on the line of Ursula telling me, you're gonna tell me, so as she says, and the team from Germany will listen, I bow down to you, but not to one who needs to worship, but to my Brussels bosses. And I resent the rulers. So, I said before very, very clear, we as a club MOST as opposed to those who manipulate and spontaneously media with their political bots have always acted responsibly and urged every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to take care of their lives and their health, but we have fought and will fight for people to be free in this country. People have to be free, listen to all the information, the dangers, everything, so listen, and then tell me the man for me is the danger that I have to do, and I have to be free because if I'm not free then I have nothing, if they take away my freedom, if they take away my right to manage my life, which is what's important, then there's nothing. And so something else in our country every year we lose 15,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are dying of the consequences of smoking and we know we can't compromise the virus so I'm not getting into it, but I'm appealing to you now as a man do everything you can. If we all unite each year, we lose the city the size of Makarska, every year we lose the city the size of Metkovic because people die from the consequences of smoking. Let's do everything we can to make those deaths less, to cut them down, not to be, not to be so many more. And I also want to be very clear at this point one more time. Croatian citizens overpriced their freedom in the Homeland Defence War. Both Croatian citizens and Croats and all of them, therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve just enough to be free. Here we are, listening to our colleagues criticizing us as if we were mentioning some of the statements of the Vange grandmother, or I don't know some of the guys who had rydiculated and fell out of some of Alan Ford's comic books from some obscenity roles, so we're here, and I'm quoting top epidemiologist professor. Ioannidis, who also speaks of the vaccination of the old.../incomprehensible/... but thus speaks the consequence of the lockdown anxiety, depression, the economy, and our country will fall apart, who will remain in this country then. And there's something else we're too small for, let's not share, okay? We have different attitudes and political views. Looks like some of us here in this country really care about sharing, sharing. And I will finish, the truth will set you free. I can't wait for the moment when all the truth will come out and Mrs. Ursulice and her text message will come out with the boss of Pfizer and the arrangements of 35 billion vaccines, when everything will come out and when they'll account for everything they've done. And thank you, and I will use another 6 seconds, colleague Murganic I would like to congratulate you on seeing that you are re-elected with 66.7% of the vote for the president of this society Congratulations to the honest. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90302	Thank you very much, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Miletić, no, not without, it is impossible to discuss. [[I remember those numbers even though I'm theologian, but...]] One little note from Alan Ford's characters isn't any cartoons, they're very serious, believe me. So now he's Mr. Kujundzic with his first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90303	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Miletic so I can't say that today I was disappointed by our minister, otherwise mildly, moderately, and so today he looked to me in Willi the Kida style where you wave hands needlessly on any form of criticism that comes from a pay phone and you're quite rhetorically aggressive, not like you, I personally prefer that old Willie who is convincing, calm, etc. In Croatia for 2020, in 2021 about 40% of the total number of deaths died from cardiovascular diseases. Many doctors warn that the future that comes in order to delay operational and control or regular checks, therefore because of the measures taken within this Covid, these numbers could be much, much greater. How do you comment on that fact?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90304	Thank you very much. Now he will answer that medical question, Mr Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90305	We theologians have wide knowledge and we observe the situation in which we are, and then that philosophical part of our profession gives us the right to just think and see that reality that is just coming, dear Chairman, Mr. Furio Radin. A colleague, Kujundzic, is not easy for Minister Beros, I know it well. [[Intruder: Furio, Furio.]] Cekic and an anvil you have Brussels, you have masters up there and then you have 400,000 citizens of our people of the Croatian people who said we want a referendum, give us a referendum on our real democracy, give us a referendum. And then there's the minister between Brussels and his boss is worse if it's not the prime minister then you have the Croatian people, and then you have these and those and I know what I know and what I know who doesn't, so I understand that the minister really isn't easy without any pathetics. And we'll find out when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90306	Thank you. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90307	Here's fellow Miletic, you said the minister wasn't easy. Indeed, this is a difficult job, but we wanted to help the minister with our referendum by restoring power, deciding on the management of epidemiological measures in his hands, not in the decisions of some Staffor who is a non-structive body as we have repeatedly warned, and you have today spoken on behalf of a club where people sit in different professions of economists, lawyers, physicists, geologists not to further list and least doctor of medicine. So I want to know how you see the minister's role in this pandemic at all and how you explain the fact that he allowed himself to be placed under the Minister of the Interior, then he continues to rule out the operation of the Staff and to exclude the health role from his hands, and he is the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90308	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90309	It's very hard for me to say what would happen if it were. And I don't know how to, so I don't know. I mean, I can't say that to get me set up, I know you'd die. I'd throw myself on my head and almost either the colonel or the deceased as far as that goes. On the other hand, it's true, geologists are good that they're not paleontologists. And then they give us a doctor and tell us theologians, professors, you something. Geologists. The Croatian public must know, a member of the Geologist headquarters. Brother, then I'm theologian, so I can explain the reality that surrounds us a little bit closer. We've got criminals. I think in one way, the minister, I don't know if he deliberately or accidentally washed his hands. You have that act of law that says that with regard to this pandemic of the disease surrounding us, the minister must hold responsibility specifically for hospitals, no headquarters and any geologist in the Staff or criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90310	You don't have any more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90311	That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90312	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Maria Selak-Raspadic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90313	In a speech on behalf of the club, I've already talked a lot about the illogicality of public health measures and asked for the minister's testimony to open dialogue and decide on this pandemic together. Unfortunately, I didn't find my hands open, so it turns out that it's just one floscule we like to say at the pay phone that we should achieve synergy in action in practice there's no dialogue at all. Now here in an individual debate, I will try to open up some questions that I have not heard before in public space, and this report is also about which we should get an answer. Why? Because they concern primarily the responsible way of spending money on Croatian taxpayers, money that we not only do not have enough, but given the growing inflation, we will have it less and less. What's this about? One of the perhaps seemingly controversial information came into my eye in this report as to how the EU sued Astra Zenec this spring for a significant delay in the delivery of vaccines because Member States could not realise their national vaccination plans. A court settlement in September that I later investigated, because there was no court settlement before, but the verdict was in favour of Astra Zeneca, not the EU. The dynamics of delivery of remaining doses have been agreed, and now watch this, they have been rerouted mainly to donations to the global vaccine alliance and will be donated to 500 million doses, etc. Let's translate this expert finding into our common language. We didn't get the Astra Zenec vaccine we ordered then 2.7 million. We were one of the ones who bet on Astra Zenec when we needed it and we paid fat. Since we haven't received it, we've spent tens of millions more to compensate for it by ordering some other kinds of vaccines, and these millions now that have gone somewhere further into the EU, the one that should have protected our rights has guessed in a way that has finally agreed to get some of that delivery that will be donated. Why didn't anyone protect our money? Why didn't anyone protect our rights? And why aren't we compensated in the case that happened with Astra Zenec? Has Croatia done anything in this particular case and could it have done anything at all? Have we ever seen contracts with vaccine manufacturers to protect our rights and our material interests? According to this information and this strange contract where the amount of unwanted vaccine that will be generously donated to third countries will be obtained too late, we have lost very badly here. And with us, it's one of the information we're acting like it's none of our business. We're the ones who ordered the most of that vaccine, and since we didn't get it, not only did we pay for it, but we also had to re-route the means and the means to reroute it to other vaccines. Where's our money? We need the money. Croatia is in crisis and we could use them much better. So I'm going to remind you once again because I don't have time to open other topics, that we've donated almost two million doses of vaccines so far, that we've ordered about 19 million doses of vaccines, that we have no idea why we ordered so much because in the previous report we say that we needed this for three doses per citizen, and in this report for the same amount, we say that we're enough for four doses per citizen. So we don't have a slight relationship, we just justify huge, expensive and illogical orders and ask God where this vaccine is going to end, if we're going to have someone to donate to, what we're going to do if we're going to have to expensively store medical waste without mentioning all the millions we could have rationalized given the real needs of our citizens. And by the way, another controversial information to see that this report is partially and manipulative, when we boast about how many inhabitants we have split, then we highlight a group from 70 to 74 where 92% of the older population has been vaccinated, but we refuse that in the risk group, the most risky, 80 to more, 66% of our citizens have been vaccinated. So, and what they wanted to succeed in They felt it was crucial in the fight against this pandemic, they were very much [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You failed, only you won't tell us in this report. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90314	You've got replicas now, so you'll be able to continue, this one. Mr. Kujundzic, you have your word. [[/Intruder: Thank you Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Rasdic.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90315	Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. How do you comment on the fact that the number of people vaccinated is on the rise, so can we monitor it periodically? It's just that we're growing parallel to that number of people who are infected, we're growing, for a time we've grown the number of people who are hospitalized, but what's most regrettable is that we're growing the number of deaths. So, is there a particular relationship, how do you comment generally, so this is stated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90316	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90317	I'm not a health expert, so in that sense I'm not going to enter into a medical analysis of this causality, but I'm going to point out the next principled conclusion, the vaccine should have been a means of fighting the pandemic from the beginning. When we look at the current epidemiological measures and what I pointed out in the debate on behalf of the club as much as threatened and less threatened, they were over 3,000 times vaccinated, and have fewer rights and are being tested, or tested unlike the vaccines, it turns out that this vaccine stopped being a means, and became the purpose of this pandemic, and this debate was no longer guided by rational epidemiological arguments rather than an open space for the question of who it really used.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90318	Mr. Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90319	Money flows in this pandemic are something we'll be dealing with for sure in the coming years. There will also be parliamentary investigative committees, I'm sure they'll have their hands full with both USCOCK and DORH, especially once they've cleaned up and started doing their job. I'll only mention one number. 1 394 362 745 kuna was spent on testing. So almost a billion and 400 million kuna. How many tests were paid? Were there any more favourable tests on the market? Serious doubts in this direction were raised by Mr. Lauc, who was a member of the government's health council, stating that his firm offered at the beginning of the PCR tests at a significantly, significantly lower price than was later paid. These are all the things that create doubt and why this decision was ever made to go beyond the Public Procurement Act today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90320	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90321	Not only has this decision been made on 17 March 2020 and it has been placed under a sign of secrecy, but this as an argument of an incredible threat is repeated in this report and no one knows when this decision will cease to apply and by what criteria, as no one knows, and I have directly asked the minister, which parameters should satisfy the pressures of the health system, the number of hospitalized, the number of deaths, etc., so that Covid confirms that they are abolished or measures as such. We'll never get the exact information so it can continue in the blur. And speaking of numbers, I'm going to mention how much the government really cares about the rights of health workers and the financial valorisation of their efforts, they gave them 10% of the salary as a reward for work, and then here they mentioned that they could choose a average of 3 previously received salaries rather than that reward for working with a new salary. So that's how high that reward is. that many more are worth having an average of 3 old salaries [[Intruder: Time.]] but to get that prize. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90322	Next replica, Honored Representative Zeljko It's a shotgun. [[Employment: Good job taking care of healthcare professionals.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90323	Dear MPs, fellow Members, we had an opportunity to hear from our colleagues here this morning, including the minister himself, that this vaccine prevents mortality and by the statistics we've seen, yes, it's true, for 70% of people to survive the crown, this, and 30% who were sick and vaccinated, unfortunately died. Now, of the hospitalized 43% in this period, the minister said, so 1900 of them were also vaccinated. Now, I know you're not a doctor, but maybe you're being directed, you're certainly better than I am, how much of a vaccine that we brought to Croatia a year ago, a year and a half ago, along with the police and special forces, how long it takes, what are the options of storage, how our doctors at minus temperature, I'm not here at all. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90324	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90325	It's a question that I've asked as a representative question, our storage capacity to see how we've even decided how much order we've still directed donations. It's nice to play this, something of a drunk rich guy, and we're drunk, and we're rich, and we don't have money for donations in this situation of Croatian citizens, so unfortunately I don't have that answer, but what I notice is that one significant number that insists on pointing out from 30% of the people vaccinated and hospitalized and deceased, and nobody warns them in public space enough that they should be protected, that they are also threatened, rather than ignored to glorify and promote vaccination, and thus directly endangering the health of our citizens. Not to mention when these data were already known in the previous report, the minister continued to publicly repeat the dogmu that the vaccine must be protecting against severe illness and death, which unfortunately is not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90326	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90327	I thank the chairman. Dear MPs, I cannot agree at all with your exposure in essence and your exposure is small and contradictory at some point, so you state that the report we are discussing today is manipulative, that it has information that is not relevant to us, and then you quote the same information, among other things, about the Astra Zeneca lawsuit for the undelivered portion of the vaccine that has been agreed and ordered. Also, I believe that you remember, but I think our public also remembers that at the moment when the vaccine was developed, the European Commission, among other things, played on that map that the Oxford vaccine is going to be developed first, and that is how well we all know it was priced here, and that it ordered exactly that amount. The quantities haven't been delivered, and that's why we're working in court right now, going to court. The decision is what happens to these unsupervised quantities. One, Croatia will get them safely. Are we going to donate them? It's up to us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90328	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90329	Except for some principled qualifications, I haven't heard the arguments that didn't work out with my report, so I'm gonna skip that part. And as for what you're saying about Astra Zeneca, I think it's quite simple that Croatia should be protected by its interests because we don't need this vaccine right now, and we Astra Zeneci give a number of amounts of vaccines because we have a surplus so we donate. We need financial compensation, and it is obvious according to this decision, and my question is whether Croatia has done anything to protect its interests, that this compensation has not come, but will receive part of the late doses that will go into donations because no one is needed anymore. So bye, bye-bye, Croatian millions. Let's translate very simply. What kind of contracts are these with vaccine producers that we've never seen that at the moment they're sneezing we don't have the right to compensation. As consumers, we have the right to ask these questions and to fight for our interests, that is, the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90330	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90331	This debate is being held in the days when one domino effect of abolishing covid certificates and measures is being created throughout the EU, but not everywhere where the EU paradox that seeks to be above the state contains entirely opposite realities. So, on the same day in which one Denmark abolishes the full measure, Austria introduces a mandatory 1 February vaccination for its citizens. By violating this measure of human rights, we can seriously think about offering asylum to Austrians who will want to get rid of it by coming to the Republic of Croatia. But what are the covid certificates? Not to say that they come out now from day to day serious scientific research on how many measures they've seen so far from lockdown to confirmation of this species are completely ineffective. But I'm going to stick to what they're ruling and they're writing themselves in this report. I'll stick to the quote. So, speaking of covid certificates, this report says, I quote: “The aim of these security measures is to prevent people from entering certain areas if they do not present evidence of testing, vaccination or disease disease disease to a maximum extent to prevent further spread of infectious disease.” Therefore, the primary purpose of at least this is to prevent further spread of infectious disease. Further, I quote: “In terms of the benefits of covid confirmation in order to reduce and prevent the spread of infections, different studies show that vaccinated persons are significantly less susceptible to disease than unvaccinated. Different studies. What studies? Where are they published? When were they published? We here clearly referred to an article in Landset from September that talked about both the vaccines spreading the infection and praying, begging you to introduce a test at the entrance to the hospital. You didn't do that. For months, the infection has penetrated hospitals through the vaccinated staff that you swept through the COvid's confirmation, they haven't been tested. Well, here in the Parliament, we have colleagues vaccinated three times who got covid and could enter the Parliament without testing and infect others. I repeat, in September in Landset, it was published. You're listing some different studies here. The only thing quoted is Mr. Capaka's assistant's instructions to the Australian portal, some lame news portal. It's like now I'm here about epidemiology quoting my favorite football icon page that's great, but it doesn't deal with these things. I quote further: “There are also fewer options for the vaccines to pass the infection on to other people in the environment compared to the unvaccinated.” How much is less? Which studies show this and how acceptable it is, so it is unacceptable that a person with 30 bullets in the Kalashnikova enters and bursts, but it is acceptable if it is not 30 bullets but 10 bullets here if a third is just transferred to unvaccinated ones. How much? What studies? What numbers? They're full of the mouth of science, and nothing exact, nothing but divination. I'm quoting further. Covid certificates could speed up the return to normal life and increase economic activity at a reduced risk of viral transmission? They could contribute to the sense of security when going to the event, etc. So they could divulge, so we'll bring them in. And the fact that practice shows us that they can't, but that they've become infection-expanding permits, the director of the Varazdin hospital told you a long time ago that the vaccines that aren't tested by the medical staff infused it doesn't matter. It's standing here and next. The government indicated I quote the moral obligation of every citizen to contribute to the prevention of the spread of the infection by vaccination. Moral obligation. A friend tells me a vaccinated man, he was vaccinated and gave it to his old mother. She had middle symptoms, she could have died because you snuck him in, he meant the other vaccines, here he was vaccinated three times, so he passed it on to her again. Who's going to be responsible for that? But maybe we could. When it comes to overexperience, here you quote a study of over 9000 people where only 0.7% of people are reinfected. The Cleveland study is about coincidence, you list 4.3 to 100 people who have not been infected, and zero to 100 people who are over it. A clinic study in Cleveland is what you're alleging here, so why are you discriminating the over-experienced?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90332	We have replicas of the respected advocates of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90333	How do you explain the fact that HZJZ has done a study to see how the situation is on the spot, therefore own research that needs to improve the quality of health care. And in it, he discovered what we're talking about, that vaccines carry the virus, but unvaccinated three times as much. We eliminate the unvaccinated by testing them before entering the hospital, but no one inoculates them. And we here explicitly read about surgeons, other medical staff, etc. which was vaccinated, now was tested for the first time, and it was seen that they were infected. After obtaining the results of this study, they were not applied to the work. They did nothing to protect the most vulnerable social group of patients by testing everyone. How do you understand that? As with those who have no right, they have fewer rights than they have been vaccinated and according to all the studies, they are more protected from them according to the data contained in this Reports. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90334	I can explain it by making political decisions, not scientific decisions. Pure politics. Here's another example. Speaking of reports of side effects and of those suspected of having died from vaccination in this report is an empty methodological statement. I quote, in order to assess the causal link between the occurrence and the fatal outcome with vaccination for each application, a thorough scientific expert assessment of all available data and medical documentation shall be carried out which, in the event of fatal outcomes, includes a certificate of death and a finding of the autopsy if carried out. Then they mention later consultations with specialists if necessary. This is excellent, this is a methodologically correct health approach, but now I wonder why the same methodology is not used for the dead of Covid. So to see if they died of Covid or with Covid, as for the vaccinated, they were seen to die from vaccination or die by vaccination. So here science has long said good night. We speak of dogmas and divination, and their mouths are full science. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90335	Next replica, respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90336	Dear Representative and colleague, I am interested in knowing in principle your position but to confirm it, to hear it once again as you look at this violent approach of a Covid repression towards our children that this is what children in development do when we know the scientific studies we are reading, which are available that children thank God are not so endangered, and we have an empirical one, we have experience. We've had experience having a 2.5-month-old kid get over it, eat it in 6-7 days. Of course, thank God that's right, some get hurt. And now is it, is it normal for you all in class to have masks all day 5, 6, 7 and then when it's lunchtime everyone takes off, everyone eats in the same class all right here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90337	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90338	After scientific studies clearly show that vaccines can spread the infection, after clearly showing that the risk of hospitalisation or difficult outcomes in children and young people is almost negligible to any forced vaccinated children is either direct or indirect. For what? And if you vaccinate a child, it can carry the infection, it won't protect grandparents, and it doesn't mean anything to them because the risks are minimal except for immunocompromised children, but with them any other virosis can be respiratory, dangerous. So the only reason I've called it that they act like some sort of panicked Pphyser commercialist on sale, so that you don't throw away what you give or to cover up your own failures then fall into that ever-increasing spiral. I have no other answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90339	The next replica, the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90340	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Rasudiæ as you comment double with the standards, so I would like to commend our minister Willi for not wearing a mask at the clock and encourage him not to do it otherwise. However, I'm going to tell you I'm a chronic patient so I have asthma and chronic bronchitis, so despite the regulations of July 20th, it seems to me to be 2020 by HZZZ that patients should not wear this mask, I'm supposed to wear it here, not here, but wherever I go in. I once asked the President of the Croatian Parliament at first because I would like any of you to try to breathe under this, which he replied to, so don't come to the assembly. So, I'm not supposed to come to my job because here's what if I'm sitting here I need to hold a mask, which is why, because of some solidarity I don't understand. Plus, I'm doing regular tests, and I've got a negative test. So I'd also like you ministers today, if you can give further instructions to all people who have respiratory problems, so the type of me is another six months of life to tell the chairman here's to at least be us. No mask. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90341	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90342	Coli Kujundzic, today there is still a very clouded border between something, and it will be clouded for the next few years, and it will be questioned what some scientists have done and how the roads of money have gone and what was true, which is not. A clouded border between something that is an epidemiological means of protecting people's lives and human health and something that is some kind of political religious symbol where they show a more righteous, more morale way for those who think of each other and themselves and obey what they are told than those who told them before, who are already telling them what they said before. So I have no other explanation. I will repeat only once now it is obvious that much of what has been done has nothing to do with science and common sense but dogma, politics and crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90343	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90344	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague often mentions Lancet as someone who has also published in Lancet.../incomprehensible... article I must warn you that this study that you are constantly calling for, which she said in one part, that also vaccinated in a home set, so in close continuous contact I can transfer the virus in its conclusion in a sentence, and I know that you know so well you speak English, so I can only conclude that you deliberately manipulate, saying that vaccination reduces the risk of infection with the delta virus and that it accelerates the loss of the virus from the organism, so it is not necessarily the same and does not carry the same vaccinated and unvaccinated infection. And one more thing, therefore, is the belief that the vaccinated and untested have spread the virus, so we have 14,000 dead, and in no EU country where mortality has grown since the vaccine came they haven't tested the vaccine at the entrance to the health system and there hasn't been any mortality as we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90345	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90346	I don't want to play Russian roulette with people's lives, so are you saying... No, no, no, that vaccines carry less [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I asked a clear question, how much less? [[Intruder: Please]] Could be 10 bullets in the Kalashnikov if it's not 30, if it's not full of paint. You have colleagues sitting behind you who have been vaccinated three times and who have been infected, the public has said so themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90347	Please, please, don't argue from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90348	So it's white today. I quoted to you the director of the Varazdin hospital, coming from the other side, is the man lying, so are you saying that no vaccinated medical officer has brought the disease to the hospital, where the infection came from, where did the infection come from? So let's be responsible for the rest of people's lives and health. At the moment the doubt occurred in Lancet, we began to talk about it, and this was confirmed later by the theory and practice including the constituency benches, including ministers and government spokeswoman and assistant mayor of Zagreb, not to go now, all three times vaccinated, all afterwards infected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90349	Time, time. There is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90350	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. I have to react when you're not the chairman. My colleagues from the HDZ Club don't have the courage to hit the replica of my colleague Rasputic, so they're screaming loudly in like, like we're in some kind of zoo here in their chairs instead of getting involved actively in a parliamentary debate. So to pray for a minimum civilised discourse, if you want a comment you have a right to lift a replica, don't be afraid, they won't eat you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90351	I've warned my esteemed colleagues, and you're getting a third warning and based article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Next infraction of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Rasdic, he has been injured. In 238, putting out lies and demeaning institutions, so don't mention Sparrow in this context because you're telling complete lies. You're referring to scientific articles as a scientist. I'll just tell you one piece of information from the American Center for Disease Control. Therefore, people who are vaccinated and who are unvaccinated can carry the disease. The risk of infection in vaccinated patients is 8 times higher than in unvaccinated patients, and 25 times less likely that vaccinated persons will have to go to hospital or die, 25 times more likely, tell the public, and do not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90353	And you get a warning because you've made this a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90354	I thank the chairman. Dear Representative, you say the Russian roulette you don't want to play, in real life there's also the most dangerous version in bullets, but also the variant that you play with, you play with words, and so that Russian roulette you play, and it calls again on Lancet as a colleague just said there are exact figures there, so it says that the transfer rate in the first month is 88% prevented by the 5th month to the amount of 47% transmission of SARS-COV-19 disease in case the patient was vaccinated. It remains far more than an unvaccinated patient who carries it in a 90% and greater coincidence. That when you turn everything around the way you want it's a Russian roulette someone listens to and takes on those words of yours and eventually comes to a fatal outcome and to the death of unvaccinated patients in a Split hospital. You're the reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90355	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90356	Come on, when you get home, look at the footage you just said, so you just said that after 5 months, after 5 months, there's almost 50% chance that the vaccines carry the infection as unvaccinated. Okay, 47%, that's almost half. [[Clip intrusion: 47%]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90357	Please don't argue from Mr. Brkan's bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90358	And you let them in, you let that vaccinated into the hospital medical staff without testing the entrance, so that's more than a Russian roulette. There's one in the Russian roulette, one in eight or nine bullets, and you've got one in two bullets and you're letting it into hospitals. You have a face to tell me that I play Russian roulette. You've glued us to the forehead on your witty Facebook page the number of deaths you carry on your soul from the 9th month to the day, which, as Pfizer's commercialists, blindly pushing covid certificates, let the medical staff infected not have to be tested to get into hospitals. It's all going to be investigated, and it's going to be explored.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90359	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90360	Thank you, dear chairman, dear ministers and associates. I'll take another chance to thank all the staff who care about the people who got infected and who were hospitalized. They really deserve to be admired. I had personal experiences, I wasn't as sick as many others, but I was sick to the level that I had to, I had pneumonia, so very briefly, but I was full of viruses. Imagine you mothers, nurses, technicians, doctors, cleaners coming into our room, and we were the two of us, and it was all a lot of covids in there. I ask how dare you come, you'll get infected, says we have to who will, thank God here. And give them, give them Mr. Minister, find some model for these people, they're really on the first line. It's like we've got special ops and defenders taking care of something else, but we have those who break through the first line, minefields, machine guns and everything else, and that's you in the hospital and they really need you to give Mr. Ministers a look at them, please. You have to give them, it's a moral obligation, a certain satisfaction, whatever. But at the same time we have another problem, a big problem dear friends, and he's referring to the model for the moment when we feel ourselves infected, and then we go to the test, we have a subjective feeling that something's wrong, so we go to the testing course that's informally, formally in the pharmacy or wherever it's going, and then it happens positively and then we panicically or calmly call our family medicine doctor. And the doctor of family medicine, and in Zagreb it works thank God quite well, he says about this one look at the temperature, what is already going paracetamol and Andol and God and ask what is not, if any inflammation, if it is coughing etc. And that's pretty much what it's all about. Now here, after the second, third, fourth, after the fifth day, the sixth appearance of Mr. Minister's complications. You know that very well. In the hospital I am so directed, says the problem of performing on days 6, 7, 8, and here if the general medicine doctor does not react in the way to react you have a hospitalized man in two days, the 9th day when he comes is already possible late. Why? Because in 2 days if he has pneumonia, and he doesn't react with certain medicines, you can't get to a doctor, you can't call him, he's relatively relativizing, he can't see you, he can't listen to you, logically or without work, they have time for patients, or they're covered by some other jobs now our doctors, our doctors, our nurses, and you have a fever that you think will be better, it'll be better and there's a drama going on. Now that's what we need you to do at headquarters and what kind of guidance you have to send to the field and there, there's your weakest point. In that 7th, 6th, 7th, 8th day, you have a disaster to react to. There's a problem in the village. Now I've been there, here's the northwest of Croatia. In particular, I could tell you about the municipalities, places where doctors don't even show up to these people who are sick, about old people not to talk. They're not normal in that, and they're at home for 3-4 days at 39, 5 days comes urgent, end of story, respirator, on the respirator we know what it is. Please, it's serious, it's life, go to Varazdin, go to Varazdinske Toplice, go there and inform yourself. Therefore, if in Croatia Ministers made a prophylaxis that far better, far more carefully, we take much more professional care of these first 5-6 days of treatment of covid patients who have a subjective feeling that everything would be better. After the 4th day of treatment, please write a message to everyone in the club, gentlemen, I beat the crown, after the 4th day I wrote it, unfortunately, that's the impression I had, the second day I ended up in the E.R. So that's what we need to take care of. It's very mean and insidious where without medical expertise we can't get out. Thank God for coming out, but that's luck, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90361	Here, we've got plenty of replicas. The first is Honored Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear General, thank God you've healed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90363	I didn't finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90364	I'm extremely glad that you're well and that you don't have any serious complications, but I wouldn't agree with you when you talk about happiness. We know very well that this line of transition from the first to the second week is the most dangerous and it is a possible complication whether it will be or not. But you have ignored and I believe you have not deliberately left out one fact that vaccinated persons have a significantly lower risk, 25 times less risk of ending up in a hospital and dying compared to unvaccinated ones. Vaccination is not an absolute guarantee, never anywhere, but vaccination, and therefore you should call on whatever political harm you may have, you should invite citizens to be vaccinated and it will be the biggest, biggest contribution in this fight against the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90365	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90366	Thank you very much. Indeed, there were both vaccinated and unvaccinated in my room. I agree with you that according to the empirical experience, according to the family, my experience extends and rope families, people my dear and cousins and the closest who have been vaccinated have been relatively easy to do, that part of the story that I've stuck with. However, it appears to them, here are the second time at 39 and with pneumonia. But I agree with you that in that part of the first delay, 30% at the end of the day, we saw this one of us, the ones who are people who are vaccinated, less coming, less coming to the opportunity of this deadly stage eating. But we have the other side of that story we don't know is the gray area by side. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90367	Followed by a replica of respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90368	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sacic, you have told us your experience. I had my experience before I could be vaccinated before the vaccine was even there. I thought I wouldn't wake up in the morning. I didn't end up in the hospital, and I didn't have respiratory problems, I was vaccinated twice, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, I'm inoculated, and I'm inoculated for the third time, I'm inoculated, I'm in the fourth and fifth and how many times it takes. Why? Because I believe science because I trust those who understand it. I don't think it's my idea to say that I'm going to operate on my appendix, and I think it's very simple, you cut a little bit there, you sew a little bit like this and everything. So I'm staying in the domain of what I know. You were one of the ones who called me from the pay phone when I told people I was inoculating, when I was talking about the covid certificates that had not been introduced by Croatia and that the EU had introduced that I was a fascist. Now I ask you, Mr. Sacic, after the experience you have, will you be vaccinated or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90369	Ha, don't do that to me. I can answer that. First of all, I'm glad to have a dear esteemed colleague and a lady. that you've been over the covid. That really was the first time, the first time. This me, I look forward to having your vaccine helped you and, to move you from that deadly zone and give God to everyone in Croatia so that it might be, and I called you back then because you're a little ugly, I'm subjective to it, I interpreted it as not having to give them food, water, that they need them in the wire, okay, that's my subjective impression. But whether I'm gonna vaccinate or not, I hope not, I hope not, that somehow I'll try, my biggest problem is diabetes, and if I take off my diabetes, I'll be a less risky group. I had the biggest problems because of my diabetes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90370	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90371	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you speak very emotionally in all your performances on this subject. I believe that you are honest and honest at the end of the day, and that everything you say really does. However, I have these dilemmas and questions and you are extremely sorry and you care about health workers, appreciate their efforts, feel sorry for your children, we have all been unhappy and sad that our children do not go to school, what they have, are socially isolated from having different psychological traumas, you are also sorry to all of us older citizens. There we were unhappy that our nursing homes were separated from our families. What are you offering, not vaccination and declaring your party's political position not to be vaccinated, not to follow measures, masks, what are you offering?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90372	Dear colleagues, no, at least you haven't heard from us and ever today to say the words don't be vaccinated. It's our freedom, every way it is, at least now that it's not mandatory, in Austria you have to finish, but if it's on the loose, let everyone feel what they want or won't feel. So I would fence myself from you, we don't say don't vaccinate, and this statement of mine is every decision on how, constitutionally it's right and how it allows his body and subjective impression. But I agree with you this, in fact we all agree that it's a very, very insidious disease and the stupidest statement when someone says that the virus doesn't exist, I even heard it yesterday. It's too stupid, too terrible, it should, but according to him let's try, let's try to go in a way, he's an unknown thing, which could be effective. We've had all kinds of procedures, maybe we're on the verge that, with the least harmful effects, we've come to the green branch and I apologize for personally sharing my impressions and burdening you with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90373	The next replica, the replica Andreja Maric, is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90374	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I cannot agree as a doctor with your thesis that health care professionals as you have said are probably out of work, so they do not answer the phone. It's not true, they're very burdened, they're quite burdened. You must know that 80% of all covid patients had family doctors in their care, and other difficult clinical images that were very difficult to work with and ended up in hospitals. So please correct that thesis. The other thing I can't agree with is that you've even lifted the Rules of Procedure's injury to your colleague Kekin, a doctor like me, who is, we're talking about the well-being of vaccination. It is our duty to talk about what the profession and science say, and you want to accept it or not. You say you have diabetes, I'm a diabetic. Do you trust your diabetic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90376	You believe it. And when he calls you for vaccination, you don't believe him. The only thing we can agree on is that there are problems, you have unsatisfactory patients and dissatisfactory employees, and that's why I call once again on the minister to call for a joint table of all health care stakeholders to talk and solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90377	Yeah, it's a clear thing. It's, if that's how it came out of my mouth, then it cleans the lapus, like, what kind of doctors wouldn't have to do, they're just because they have work to do, so it's a lapus. And on the other hand, this, look, there are certain doubts, what now, we can't turn our heads that people suddenly die, vaccinate and suddenly die, maybe it's an accident, but it's not enough to demystify and then create questionnaires, then it creates, and on the other hand, some people who have come to this data about vaccines in BiH unfortunately say the government of the Federation of BiH says about some vaccines that have cardiovascular problems, which has diabetes, there are some, some of these reserves that don't say something else, and now we're exposed to information, and our civil protection headquarters is not saying enough about it, and then it creates, then it creates questionnaires above their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90378	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90379	Dear fellow Sacic, you have guessed in your section about the doctor, not that they because of their neglect or because they are not working, but because there are ambulances in the villages where they come once or twice a week that doctors have too many patients on their care that they do not want, but because they do not get to take adequate care, they do not arrive to devote as much time as they should. In rural areas where there are several inhabitants, go to Banovina and see how people live and where they have a doctor, where the doctor is with those in the Castle, where the doctor is with those in Dubica and how they come to him and often alone because of their stubbornness and distance and obstacles that they have to stay at home, suffer symptoms and then when the time comes for an emergency then it is a little bit and too late. That's what my colleague Sacic is talking about, and that's what I tried to talk about, and you who are doctors, don't be offended that someone is attacking you, but that's the real problem with our health care. which is not in good condition. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90380	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90381	And I have nothing else to say but agree with you fellow, sorry, I have nothing else to say but agree with your findings. You'd be damned if you said doctors didn't work on purpose. My aunts, my aunts, my aunts are in trouble that I can't get to the phone, and when they come in for four or five days, aunts, what are you waiting for? Go where to go when no one's answering my phone, and then she goes to a lung scan. And a lung scan of chaos and then the fifth day gets an antibiotic, thank God it stays alive. ... She was vaccinated three times by my aunt, and she criticized me, and you woke up so the vaccine wouldn't end up in the hospital, and all I was ashamed of was my aunt criticizing me. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90382	Okay. Next is the debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues as I come from Dubrovnik from Dubrovnik-Neretva County first to all Dubrovnik women and Dubrovnikers congratulating the day of the city and the holiday of St. Blame the Vlach of the Dubrovnik Protector. When I say so, the fact that yesterday was held at a ceremony on the occasion of the day of the Dubrovnik City Prize was awarded to Prof. Dr.sc. Ljiljani Betica Radic to the main infectologist at the Dubrovnik hospital. I'm happy to read it, and I'm happy to listen to it whenever I'm on Korčula. And I'm also happy to read Dr. Ivo Ivić, who is the head of infectology in Split. So I'll read you what I think is very good for this introduction, quote it. In my life, says Ivo Ivić, in my working life of 40 years, I have never seen more severe chronically ill people who have not yet been vaccinated. These people come to die in the hospital because they're on them, because they can't be saved in any way. These are people with no pressure, no oxygen, in a terrible state, and no modern medicine or our will can help. Young or young people have very few, but those 80+ years old are as many as you want and I just can't believe how many there are and I keep asking myself where these people come from. Every day the river of old people flows towards KBC Split, many of them are in a derelict state, and I responsibly claim that the fifths who died should not have died just to be vaccinated. Very often we have cases that just the day before treatment the patient received dies immediately the next day says dr. Ivić. The same question is constantly being asked why these old people who suffer from many chronic or oncological illnesses but also because of their age have not been vaccinated. The answer is always the same, they all respond, as their younger householders told them that they should not be vaccinated or vaccinated. And these old men depend on their children or grandchildren, and they listen to their children, for some times despite the wisdom they have acquired through life, children should listen to Dr. Ivić. I'm asking these anti-vaxers where you'd be today if your parents who are now dying were anti-vaxers in your childhood. A commentary is still a breath of death as it has never spread to Split a day after 16 deaths. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for the reason that even today here, not just here today, but for a long time now, there are questions about Covid's confirmation that she admitted to me or not in a certain way force people into vaccination, force. I'm not running away from saying that people, that the state by introducing Covid confirms and in a certain way directs them to vaccination. Since the introduction of Covid's confirmation on September 1st, I think the minister said it was tested in the public sector, the state sector was one million and 664 thousand of them were positive. Once the most conservative estimate of at least 500 would have died if it hadn't, if it hadn't prevented them from entering the public sector. Therefore, as far as the justification of Covid's certificate is concerned. And then when we talk about whether or not Covid needs a certificate, or we go to a referendum to cancel them, the headquarters is cleared and that decisions are made 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament I ask questions to all those who relativise Covid, who say they do not need them. Whether Covid's certificates are bad just because of it or because it brings 76 hands to the assembly, and then by argument al-contratio would be an excellent acceptable and excellent measure to prevent the spread of the epidemic if they were brought 2/3 by the majority. So is that, is that enough reason for yourself, to convince yourself that a part of our colleagues is an empty approach that says that you need Covid to remove the certificates. So they are not worth it because they are, because they are passed by a simple or qualified majority. If they were to make 2/3 of most of what this referendum seeks, it seeks to bring them into Croatia's legal system and the way they decide they would be good and they would save lives. Well then, without that, respected friends who stand up against them do everything and publicly invite all our fellow citizens to, to be vaccinated and thus take care of themselves and their loved ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90384	Here's a lot of replicas, first respected Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90385	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I'm sorry there are no representatives here, no MOST, no Homeland movement, otherwise I'd ask them that, but now I'm asking you. In order for you to explain, I explain it by abuse of politics, politics, abuse of people's misery to be their members in the protests when it's said that schools have become camps, that they're deceived by people in schools, in the sense that by force against the will of their parents, children will be vaccinated there, where people say they need to break school windows and jump out, their children not to be vaccinated, allegations that vaccination is a crime against humanity, that children, workers, peasants, etc. Today something like that says calm, unpunished, unpunished I don't mean to punish some kind of Infringemental already to the public [[Intruder: Time.]] who should strongly and harshly condemn such people. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90386	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90387	I thank my colleague Reiner. If the data that we are given to read from this report on the number of deaths that is, in any case, very much related to the number of unvaccinated is not enough, I don't know what else can be an argument. This antiintellectual, anti-science approach in the third decade of the 21st century is incomprehensible to me. I can think of it as being said somewhere in some, as we say to the comas, somewhere by the fire, somewhere where people don't know the reach of civilization, reach science, but so strongly advocate non-vaccination in such data, it's incomprehensible to me. I don't know, what you said, yes, not that it deserves a conviction from the public, but their own questioning which and in what way Achieving... [[Intruder: Time.]] I heard in the meantime. [[The speaker speaks at the same time, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90388	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90389	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Representative Bačić, it is very strange to me that in recent days, all these advocates of large human rights and personal freedoms have not responded to the upcoming discrimination against children who have been vaccinated in minority. What follows tomorrow will also be discriminated against by children who have been vaccinated against HPV because something indirectly imputed to them. So it's a movement, a phenomenon that happens all over the world, where people, not only protest, but also physically attack those who think differently, on media representatives who try to objectively transmit information, so no professional society is saying what individuals are saying that they are calling on some distinguished medical journals. So it's to interpret scientific results, and for that you need to have knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90390	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90391	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. Human rights protection is primarily the achievement of democratic systems, and these democratic systems prescribe circumstances in which certain human rights can be suspended and there is no doubt between us at all, there is no dilemma at all. But we need to know that the fundamental fundamental primary human right is the right to life. The assumption of the right to life is the right to health. Therefore, your right to wave your hand stops where my nose or my head begins, and we must be aware that we cannot call upon human rights when people who do not protect our health die next to you. And there's no state right to watch it peacefully... The hand and I will not say, I will keep an abstract right at the moment when fundamental human law is trampled and not taken care of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's inadmissible that we can even talk about other human rights. until, if we're not in to understand [[Intruder: Time.]] That man's basic human right, that's the right. [[Intruder: Next replica.]] to life, right to health. [[Intruder: Dear Representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90392	Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Honorable Representative Bacic. Well, here in the assembly we have been witnessing for months the statements of individual representatives of the opposition, above all, the Mosta and the Homeland Movement, which virtually deny their statements the entire medical profession. On the one hand, they say that medical professionals are making an extraordinary sacrifice in hospitals, they are putting up with extraordinary efforts to help these same patients, and when these same people, experts in the profession tell them that they need to be vaccinated, that they need to wear protective masks, that they need to implement other protection measures against Covid, then they say that it's not worth it all together, that it's not all necessary, etc. The question really arises, the basic question, whether we believe or do not believe in the medical profession. If they do not believe, then let them make it clear, but they are organising some referendums because he really is the impression that the government is, or Command said they don't need confirmation. [[Intruder: Time.]] They would organise a referendum for certificates. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90394	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90395	I'd like to thank my colleague, Shashin. I started my opening debate with St. Vlach, yesterday's session of the Dubrovnik City Council, award to Mrs. Ljiljani Betica Radić for her contribution in these 18 or 20 months since the outbreaks of Covid started that struggle daily for the life of every patient who comes to Dubrovnik. If anyone has knowledge, I quote Dr. Ivo Ivić in a Split hospital that has.../incomprehensible/... I have other hospitals, and I have listed two of them as being people I know, so if in talking to these people, reading what they're writing, listening to what they're saying, many things would be clearer to those who advocate the abolition of certain measures, so if you want Covid's confirmation, it means either vaccination or testing because by taking such measures, we're depriving them of their rights. I invite all of them to before Anything to discuss, just them. [[Intruder: Time.]] On that trail, they call on people to be vaccinated. [[Intruder: Next Replies Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90396	... Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90397	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. I recently watched a show on public television and asked the guest leader, if you see the difference between the Bridge, the Homeland Movement and the Sovereignist and that commentator, the guest says, there is no difference except that one among them was vaccinated. And they recognized that one and immediately kicked him out of the party. Of course, they kicked him out because he exposed them to their agenda. And now we've been listening again for days and months to convince us that those who aren't vaccinated know exactly how those who are vaccinated feel. They tell you what side effects you're going to get, etc., and they don't have that vaccine in them that they said is a fascist invention that it's experimental that it just doesn't do any effects. And days persist on it again. Now, the question is whether it's really a perseverance that they're convinced of or because they think it still brings some political point because I see this party that's picked up the signatures that these political points have disappeared within a short time after the signing. Yeah, it's people. They don't want to. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90398	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90399	Well, just for a little while, I'd like to tell my respected colleague, Boris, first of all, that violation of Rules of Procedure Article 238, that inappropriate behaviour in the assembly. Namely, the incorrect allegations were made at the Sovereign Club have two vaccinated, not one. This one who was expelled wasn't expelled because he was vaccinated, but because he severely violated his party rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90400	Okay. And you hurt the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a report given to us and from which we can read the following data in the table, in the reporting period since the last report, the number of deaths to Covid who have not been vaccinated is 2901 and the number of deaths to two doses plus a booster of 53. Now, I don't see how after this we can talk about whether to vaccinate or not, whether Covid needs confirmation or not. I can't do it. I don't know. I'm an engineer. Because you among these 53 are the same fates, human fates are and people have died and you can tell their stories pathetically about it and make the impression that they actually are They died because they were vaccinated, and these 2900 are not mentioned at all. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90402	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90403	Thank you very much. So I can't speak for the entire opposition you called, but I can speak for the green-left block. So when we talk about measures such as the introduction of Covid certificate should have been brought 2/3 of the majority, it's because they're really restrictive to freedom. You'll agree no matter what they benefit from, and that's what society shares. And when it brings only your 76 hands, then in part of the population you cause resistance to the Covid certificate that goes out of resistance to HDZ. And there are people like that in our society. I know it's hard for you to believe. There are those who don't like what you do in general, and then they don't believe even when you invite them to respect Covid's certificates. And if you were, and if we had 2/3 of the majority, that would mean that we have a political consensus for most of the citizens who have chosen you, that you can ring them, please, so we have a political consensus that would spill into society. So people would believe more easily if they knew that most people here agree on what's good for citizens and citizens. And you missed it, and that's what it's about. Your responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90404	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90405	Thank you, Mrs. Kekin. I'd actually be fine with it, it'd be better if you didn't say a line like this at all. You just said you're against it because HDZ suggested it and brought it to the assembly, not because it's good and because it's bad. It's the wrong attitude, the wrong attitude, what that has to do with it, and that's on the one hand. I'm not going in now. I've said it many times, and yet when it comes to the referendum when you ask 2/3 of the majority, write to me, come on, tell me one country where parliaments bring it to 2/3 of the majority. It is brought everywhere in a way that the government, the prime minister, the president of the state proposes, parliaments bring to an ordinary, not ordinary, qualified majority, and that is in line with the Constitution. So, that maybe the Constitution bothers you that it's like that, that we respect that constitution, that's your problem. But it's the wrong approach, the wrong approach. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90406	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90407	Infringement of Article 238, re-insulting MPs and MPs, with the apparent twisting of what the colleague said. So, a colleague says the political consensus would contribute to the social consensus because some part of Croatia's citizens did not vaccinate and resisted because they were brought to the common majority and HDZ, because they have resistance to HDZ. So she was speaking in general about the atmosphere in society. And you twist it to the totally amazing the way and the dead cold you say it. [[Intruder: Time.]] And some people nod their heads like this, I guess they listen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90408	You're getting a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90409	Thank you very much. Article 238, dear colleague again as Mrs Kekin said, which is that they control as opposition this part of the people who do not want to be vaccinated and want nothing. So you can understand what you're saying. So... Yeah, but to control them because if they had raised their hand for it then they'd all come in and they'd be fine, but now they won't. [[They know what they think.]] So they're suggesting they're not doing it, and that's not exactly what they're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90410	Okay, you're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90411	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The violation of Article 238 of our Rules of Procedure, as far as I know, is nowhere to be translated from Croatian to Croatian. We have now had the case that the distinguished representative Boris translated us from Croatia in a Croatian way in which someone said something. Well, we don't have that. We don't have that in the Rules of Procedure or anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90412	Well, you've been interpreting other people's thoughts now, and we can say that for the previous MPs, and then a warning to you. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90413	So was this a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90414	Yeah, it's a replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90415	No, no, there's a replica now. It's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I sat down. I'll forget I have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90416	She got a warning, yeah. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90417	So, esteemed colleague Bačić, you said a lot in your presentation, or you read very emotional words that we had opportunities in public space to hear where someone who vaccinated their children today does not vaccinate or those children say do not vaccinate. What was frightening to me is that Monday or Tuesday, I think, is the fact that in Split in the Spaladium arena, after so many deaths, a single man was vaccinated with a letter and a number for the first time. And what's going on here seems to me that we're not going to be able to achieve this greater fissure, and one of the elements that should be should be greater fissure. What do you think, you have experience, you have political experience, which are the reasons why people refuse to vaccine? People simply who decided not to vaccinate, so our colleague Sacic, after all that he said, said he probably won't be vaccinated. Why, why do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90418	Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90419	So I think that we're going to be honest with Mrak-Taritash, according to the estimates that I've heard, somewhere around, between the new census, when we're talking about, a full-fledged or total population of about 66-67%, that's about one piece of information that we didn't initially think would be us, that we're not going to get to it, but if we get to 65-70% of the total population, it's going to be one thing that'll almost surprise me, given how we started, how a number of political actors in society behave and how they actually object, so here and if you want to join HS a large, a number of political parties to that vaccination. All of this is, in a certain way, the result of such a number of vaccinations in Croatia. I can't, I'm not a sociologist, I can't investigate it, but I think it's somewhere in those frames that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90420	The next replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90421	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, we spent hours and hours of debate here in HS, and in fact everything could be reduced to one very simple conclusion we vaccinate, split. That's what it can partially guarantee us, but also prevent what it's about today and it's the measure of the subject, and that's what they died about. We are preparing for the tourist season, one of the conditions for inviting tourists to a country will also be the percentage of vaccinated in that country. Competition is ruthless, in any way it will use that against us, and that will be just a bad split in the counties that are highly potent in terms of tourism. Therefore, vaccination is the only thing science and profession says, and it is our job as parliamentary representatives that we invite people to go in that direction, because it is the only guarantee that we can get out of this in the time ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90422	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90423	I thank Mr. Ivanovic. You see, in this left part of the assembly that insists on calling the two-thirds majority when it comes to decision-making, so if you want the covid certificate in a certain way and countering the answer to what they're looking for, and that's what if that two-thirds majority doesn't get it done, what if we don't get the two-thirds majority that we do, what measures are going to take, we're going to let everything go the way it goes? This is, for example, a question that is sufficient, quite interesting to call upon the majority of whom it is often difficult to reach. It may take 10 days until we here in the assembly agree, and in the field, it will baffle the same epidemic in space. So I wouldn't agree with that. And one more thing, does that mean that two-thirds of the majority could limit everything, so that would be legitimate and there wouldn't be a question... If a mandatory vaccination would be acceptable to a two-thirds majority, I would ask the same question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90424	Next individual debate, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90425	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Minister with an associate. I had an idea to have an argument, but which is a man who doesn't change his mind about not telling a woman, and I've changed my mind, and I'm going to say something a little bit or not completely but otherwise. What situation do we have today? We have two facts, one fact is a weak fissure and another fact is a large number of deaths. After all these discussions, after all the efforts we have these two facts that are unquestionable and which are unquestionable to anyone and I would like to talk about responsibility, the responsibility of all of us who come for this pay phone and use this pay phone to send messages to the public who listens to us, to send messages to each other. So every time it comes to the crown when I came out for this pay phone I said next, the message to everyone is to vaccinate. When I went to this pay phone once and talked about the need for even a covid pass or whatever we call them, then one of our distinguished colleagues called me a fascist the other day and said I was worse than they were fascists towards the Jews in World War II. Chairman when there was an injury, when there was actually an injury chairing said he hadn't heard it, it was your responsibility, your responsibility for the spoken word. Responsibility for everything we say about this speaker. That responsibility, one day we'll wonder whose responsibility it is to have such a small number of splits. Thank you for getting a smaller number of people to have, so we're going to grow a number of cleavage. Of course, it's sarcasm. But, HDZ colleagues, do you ever, ever, ever ask at least, if there's any responsibility for you? Because when it's all good, then it's a big win for HDZ, and when it's bad, then it's a responsibility to all of us. So here in the assembly people are sitting at this moment you from the ruling, we are sitting out of the opposition, except for a distinguished colleague from the Sovereignist, all of us from the opposition have been calling each time from this pay phone, vaccinated, the importance of the vaccine. We've never missed saying that, but is it any way you're wondering if there's a responsibility for, right from the beginning when we were in that heavy lockdown, when there was a procession on Hvar, where it was explained why it was possible to maintain that procession on Hvar. When our prime minister shook hands with Djokovic, so it was not a topic, it was not a close contact. Do you ever, but at least ask if there is one responsibility for these two facts? That large number of dead people growing up, look at today again is one bus or 50 people died of a crown or with a crown or whatever you want to call it. So when we stand there for this pay phone and say something, there is a lot of consequences and a lot of responsibility behind it. Likewise, for all those actions that you have done and which you have tried to defend that very well you have done because there is also a reason why, so it is colleagues, the responsibility of you HDZ, you ruling you. One day, we have the dead at this point about as much as we have the dead in the Homeland War, all of them, and those who have been in war and all the civilians. And with one figure that doesn't fall, it doesn't fall that number of the dead. Whose responsibility is it all together? Whose responsibility is in a political sense, and whose responsibility is in each other? Whose responsibility is that, after that number of deaths, only one, as I have already spoken, is to be vaccinated in the Arena in Split. I've never had a problem with this phone booth saying that I'm going to be vaccinated as many times as she tells me I need to be vaccinated. I'm not going to decide how many times I need to vaccinate, I'm going to ask my doctor, I'm going to believe the expertise. But the legitimate question that I'm asking all of us right now, whose responsibility is for such a small number of splits, and the number can only grow in pure mathematics and so many dead of the crown, with a crown, or whatever you want to call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90426	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90427	Honorable MPs, excellent subject, responsibility. We have here the responsibility of one part of the opposition that calls for the termination of the confirmation because it would like to travel. And where will he travel? You come to Slovenia, you can't enter the gas station unless you have confirmation, you have an employee waiting at the door to check if you have Covid's confirmation. If you don't have Covid's confirmation, you can't buy fuel. You come to Italy, a similar thing, come to France, to the ski resort, you can't ski without Covid's confirmation. The responsibility of the ruling here now calls, we need to be split so that everyone can come without Covid confirmation in Croatia. No, why? We should take care of ourselves. The French advertise their tourism, but they also sent information to all of us, you go skiing in France, if you want to ski, you have to have Covid certificates, so do so when you call tourists to the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90428	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90429	Thank you very much for your replica, Col. Pavić. So I spoke from this pay phone on several occasions about Covid's receipts. Why? I do not want and will never want Croatia to be a small country at the bottom of the ranking of EU countries that will decide to abolish the Covid certificate and invite all the anti-vaxers of the world to the country, come here, you have a country where you do not need Covid certificates, which you can without these Covid certificates walk wherever you want and however you want. How is it that those of us who have a problem with Covid's confirmations, with the vaccines, when they go skiing have no problem being vaccinated, to get that certificate out, even more than anything else, they're going to vaccinate Johnson because after the first vaccination you can get, that there's no problem on the ski slope every other day being properly tested, they don't have any problem. You know what I call it? Hypocrisy and irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90430	Next replica, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90431	Dear MPs, you spoke of the responsibility of who is responsible for this pandemic that has been going on for a long time. A few bad follow-up scandals followed the vaccination campaign. So how do you comment on the latest scandal over this failed campaign vaccines and how much and whose responsibility is it that something like this can happen at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90432	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90433	Dear colleagues, there have been a lot of speeches in this campaign and a lot of words about the funds that have been paid and who has been paid you and those who have a flower shop, and they have decided together about a portal that has not worked. Let's go in a little bit just not so far past. About 12 months. In 2020, we had the first debate at the time, the debate was the government's work in preparation for the crown until deep into the night. The minister got over the crown, and he was there with us, and I have to admit to it on a human level, he was sorry, because it was hard to deal with, and then we asked him, what you did to make the campaign even happen, what you did for the campaign. Today we see that what he's done, like every time, let's calm ourselves and our loved ones so it doesn't matter. Even the slogan is guilty, today the world's public, or they say that the slogan should always be to promote individual responsibility related to vaccination, responsibility to itself, and not to protect others, so from that badge and beyond, about money, I think it'll be for that. more opportunities and talk [[Intruder: Time.]] and someone to let us know. [[Intruder: Next replica respected MP...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90434	Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90435	Here's a esteemed colleague, we've already heard here from HDZ MPs, especially Mr. Reiner when he exhibited on behalf of the club, in a way trying to minimize, is it, and to reduce the fact that we are indeed here, the 4th in Europe, and the 8th in the world by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. Like, it's not the exact information, it even questioned why we're all discussing here, and we're not medical professions, right? We're discussing some issues, fighting the pandemic, and none of us are medical professions, so all we need to discuss about this is the representatives who are these particular professions, which would mean that the laws relating to the sea, only the seamen, with traffic only traffic. So here's why, on their part, minorizing this kind of terrible information about the number of deaths per million inhabitants?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90436	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90437	Thank you very much, colleague Puljak. There, at one point, certain statistics were also mentioned, so the figures are as they are. We all have healthy eyes and we all know how to read. On the million inhabitants, our death toll is 13.69. The first next country is behind us 11.1 and the one that's the best is 0.55. Lately, a week or two, we're the first to die. Look at today, look at tomorrow, so when we talk about the number of infected, we're here somewhere. So, some day a little bit more, some day a little less, and relative to the average, we're here somewhere. My key question, and that's a few times, that's what I ask myself, I'm an architect, what's this big, I mean, what's that, are we a nation of sick people with weak immunity who don't want to be vaccinated on? Why is that great number of people dead or we've made a mistake, so if we've made a mistake? Let's fix the mistake, maybe for some. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's not too late. [[Intruder: Next replica respected MP...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90438	Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90439	Thank you. So, I wanted to ask you, fellow Members, how do you explain the fact that Croatia, when we look at the period of the entire pandemic, is 9 or 8, how does a day in the world by the number of people who died per million? The fact is, we've been in the last week of the 1st, haven't we? First It's a disaster. [[/Intruder: yes. The last two weeks first.]] So we have in all that number of people who died an extremely high number of people who shouldn't have died or died that could have been prevented without hearing from any member of the government an apology. That no one has claimed any responsibility for it, as if it were happening in itself, as if in comparable countries, with a comparable number of infected, we do not have a far fewer deaths. How can we? [[Intruder: Answer.]] explain it at all [[Intruder: Time.]] that they come here and don't offer an apology. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90440	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90441	Thank you very much, colleague Bencic. When the ruling HDZ comes and offers an apology for anything, then we will say that things have started to change in Croatia. When I was getting ready and talking to someone about the debate today, I said, the only topic of today's debate that should be why so many are dead. I don't know the answer, and I've said it a few times from this pay phone, I'm, with forgiveness, an architect. But I'm reading the numbers. And I see there's a large number of deaths. I'm talking about this absolute number that seemed unimaginable to me. We were about the new year at 10 grand. Today, we are at 14,000 dead, to us, in general, to show, we have a bus dying daily. He's dying, it's facts, it's numbers. Why? I asked a colleague of the HDZ who said it, so it's very old and sick. Well, I think there's a lot of old and sick. in some other countries, so [[Intruder: Time.]] We don't have that exclusive on it. [[Intruder: Next replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90442	Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. You are looking for, you expect in a certain way an excuse to accept HDZ's responsibility. So now I'm asking you, is it important for you to have your human responsibility and solidarity with our fellow citizens who are sick, maybe some of them are dying because, for example, they haven't been vaccinated and that it's important very much, then you'd be aware of the fact that our colleague Bencic is saying that we had a two-thirds majority, maybe more people would have been vaccinated, so if you were human... Solidarity should bite its opposition position and vote so that they will either split themselves or listen to you, or your opposition political position is more important to you that you, by default, will vote against HDZ, its decisions on measures and Covid's confirmations, and then that what you are against, may be those people who follow you, who listen to you, who support you, that [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] remain unvaccinated on one side. [[Intruder: Time, response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90444	My colleague Bačić and I know well that life does not last one term, that our responsibility to what we are doing lasts little longer than one term of office and I must remind you that there have been a series of decisions, a series of amendments and additions to the laws that were related to the measures related to the crown, for which I have voted as an opposition representative. You know there was a law in the former council that I was immediately against that never came, and that was tracking through my cell phone, where you agreed that tracking it through my phone wouldn't be good. Remember those real sets of laws that were tied to the crown, which I voted for as an opposition representative. Remember the meeting, the first meeting that was with the prime minister where we all gave support, and opposition deputies about measures and ways. But he's coming now, but... Remember your decisions that were unprincipled, remember everything you've made and remember what number we have The dead, that we didn't get an explanation for it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90445	Next individual debate, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90446	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. The Varazdin hospital today has been mentioned several times, so who said anything about the Varazdin hospital, so since I'm coming from just out of Varazdin I'd like to refer a little bit to the situation and remind you what it was like when it started. So it started with the tent setting up, so it started with the failure to approve 2 million in the rebalancing budget for the Varazdin hospital when it was necessary. Remember that after that, the change of directors also came about that he accepted the proposal and that Covid patients were going in and going still to Klenovnik, which is, there is a key hospital and were actually accepting organizational things as the wave of crowns came. Now, why do I say it so nationally, because I think we can see just the example of the Varazdin hospital how much this organisational fact is an indication that things in health are not working out. Here's the job. So, we have a Covid crisis, we take in certain medical staff who after 60 days simply get fired and ask for a new job. On the other hand, we've had recently just in Varazdin County so the reception of most of the, more non-medical staff. Unbelievable. Now, while we're in need of medical personnel right now. It is, these are the organisational problems that could have been avoided, which could have been arranged so that there could be no problem with the medical staff, with the overworked medical and medical staff, which, which is now happening to us everywhere in hospitals, not just in Varazdin. We've got one clue that's been dumped here and on the medical certificate that in the Varazdin hospital there's been a transfer of the disease from the doctor to the patients. So that's not true. I repeat again, and I will repeat it 100 times if necessary. So the medical staff, the medical staff, the nonmedical staff, although I'm criticizing that they're too busy for too long, is adequately protected. And there it should be demonstrated that the equipment is provided in sufficient numbers, to a satisfactory extent that these healthcare professionals are protected with masks, with suits and that these equipment is available and that they work day and day under that equipment, strength and weight. What is a criticism is this particular organisational problem where too little medical staff has been admitted to deal with a large number of patients. What's the same from the organisational aspect is that patients should stay in the future in the departments where they are being treated because it's natural, that they don't move on, that this, that the virus isn't being sown all over the hospital. I'm glad to hear that such an organization will have a future and a good time, so if birth is in gynaecology, if Covid gets sick, he'll stay in that department. I hear it's in preparation and that's good. These are organizational changes that go in the right direction, but those that are bad, which contribute to us that mortality is so great, that we don't have enough people who, medically trained people to treat these people and that they're the same fatigue, which is not good in the organisational sense. There. So much for me, and praise and appeal, and together indeed if we listen to each other, so we can contribute to this Covid crisis before it ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90447	We have several replicas, the first respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90448	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I underline what you've said is that not enough employees in our healthcare system are practically at all levels. This especially occurs now during the Covid pandemic, so it is in many health institutions. You've also troubled this employment at a certain point, that's the case in both your hospital and ours, and in fact in other institutions. What I would also like to underline here, too, I was talking about, unfortunately, my fellow bridgemates who are placing such a thesis are now gone, I've given my best efforts, and today I've checked again for a Varazdin hospital, and for our hospital, there's been a tendency for patients to come to hospitals and get infected by medical staff. That's not true. So I have a number here, like, in our hospital, positive, so under 20 and nurses, 6 doctors of medicine, 12 unhealthy employees, 900 and some of us are employed. So people are largely split. The equipment we use in the halls, so how's the surgeon gonna do that? has so much protective equipment to infect [[Intruder: Time.]] patients, and you ministers deny it. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90449	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90450	So I'd like to point out exactly what this is about. So it was that the patients who had Covid's confirmations, it's known that someone who had Covid's confirmation can transmit the virus, so the fact is that in that part we really have to do self-protectively much more so that we too would be as responsible and partly as medical personnel everywhere around us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90451	Next replica, distinguished representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90452	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. My colleague, it's incomprehensible for me to hear about the varazdin hospital today, and it's from you coming from Varazdin County. We first heard that Damir Poljak is not an adequate director for the Varazdin hospital. I mean, that's it. Damir Poljak, for him was called a tender, for the director of the hospital only on 1 October 2021, so he was led in this crisis by Mayor Cacic and his director whom he chose, I have no doubt or disputed his expertise. Secondly, I hear you're in the replica today with your colleague, Maric, saying that in the Varazdin hospital, patients are being infected by medical staff. No, that's you, that was in the replica. [[I'm just saying the opposite.]] I think it's amazing, I can't believe it because I know that every two or three days there's a test going on at the Varazdin hospital. means everyone who enters whether they are vaccinated or not [[Jesus Christ.]] They're going into testing. [[Intruder: Time.]] So, I think you'd really You should take this one, take a little more care of it. [[Intruder: Time.]] The responsibility that you get... [[Intruder: Please, time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90453	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90454	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Art. 238, I respect you, but I'm just appealing to listen carefully to what we're saying, which means we're saying exactly what you said that we're saying differently, so give us a little bit of listening to what we're saying... We're on the same track, and you're twisting what we said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean, uh... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90455	Dear colleagues, you have used it as a replica, an injury.../incomprehensible... a reminder. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then you have a warning. You've consciously done it. Here's a reply to the line of respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90456	Can I respond to the replica to repeat it again? So there was no transfer of medical personnel to patients in the Varazdin hospital and I repeat 100 times and because they have enough protective equipment. Did I say it loud enough?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90457	Okay. Did you have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or did you give up? Give it up, all right. Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90458	Dear MPs, let me first say something to the minister, now he's back in the assembly. Dear Minister, here I invite you to take the measures we will have at the time of summer, when the season...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90459	Are you replicating a minister or a colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90460	My colleagues. When the season came, we had the same measures they had in the West during the winter season when they were guarding their population and looking for Covid's certificates. Secondly, I wanted to replicate in a completely different way, but I have to, ma'am, that wasn't the way it was spoken. There's a lot of responsibility on the principals. Was the principal good? He wasn't good. Has he been removed? It is. Who set it up? Of course. Is the organization good? I don't know, here, we'll hear the answer. If the organization is good, well done, but there's too many dead, there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90461	You've actually given what I've been saying is that there are too few medical personnel who could cope with such a great challenge called death. So on the one hand, there is too much mortality and too little medical staff who care for the Covid sufferers, and on the third hand, the enormous irresponsibility of all in the Republic of others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90462	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Antoliæ Vupra, you spoke about how nonmedical personnel are employed. I can tell you that in a significant part of the Republic of Croatia you cannot hire a maid and a waitress who are also important in the functioning of the health system. The big problem is the lack of medical staff of medium-sized professional equipment and not only in Croatia, in much richer countries, such as Germany, Austria is short. Also, burning out syndrome, so as this lasts, more and more staff are exhausting and it creates many difficulties. You were talking about staying there. Covid positive people where they're being treated. It may be possible at some super-equipped hospitals, but you can't do it organisationally because you're going to spread the infection, right? And this is about Covid's confirmations, so they're transferring the vaccinated, unvaccinated, transfering medical personnel, transferring people who are coming, but not as they're imputing that healthcare professionals are the ones who are the most common disease within. Health system [[Intruder: Time.]] That's a lot harder, and I'm asking you to confirm that. [[Intruder: Answer.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90464	I'm asking you first to listen again to what I said. Medical personnel and because he has enough protective equipment doesn't spread the disease! Five times. And the thing about where it's possible to finish medicine and have more doctors than Pula is now disputed, that's what you'd be able to talk about. So it's a little bit of flexibility, if it were a little bit of a will to take a systematic look at the problem and to start solving it that we have enough doctors that can be trained to talk about it. Pula is not enabled, and as far as the rest of it is concerned, unfortunately, I had to repeat it five times, the medical staff doesn't spread the disease!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90465	Next is an individual debate, respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90466	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So today when we talk about this Report, as well as all the reports, I think it's very good to look back at the part that is good and apply it in the next period, and what we think we can do better in the next period to correct these things and to appeal and point out. In fact, I would now say something more about the implementation of these measures and how they affected and how the effects were on the economy, as well as on certain activities. In fact, not only during this period but throughout 2021, we can say that exactly the implementation of these measures has led us to say with pride that our GDP has grown by 10.8%, that we have had one successful tourist season, that we have had 77% more arrivals, 55% more overnights, that there were over 85% of the nights of exactly foreign guests, that in the first 9 months our income from foreign guests was as much as 90% more than the year before, that is, last year's tourist results have exceeded all the forecasts and have increased, of course, our expectations for the next period. But the unpredictable movements of the pandemic and the weak fissure could lead us to disrupt our plans. Although we are, Croatia was last year a tourist winner of the Mediterranean, but competition is waking up and it is growing stronger. Although the figures, as I said, were very, very good, here we are today being warned by the tourist sector and Minister Brnjac that the tourist booking that is very good is also needed for it to be more split in the country. In fact, a good state of reservations for the season which, for some areas, is even better than the record 2019 could come into question if there is no greater and better cleavage. We know that we have had a major labour problem and it is solved through the online system for the registration and import of workers, employers have responded even in a 100% larger number than it was in earlier years, the amount of scholarships has increased from 1200 to 2000 kuna, etc. However, the new rules are Covid, which are worth the cards of today, in which some countries are now being afraid of being infected, with a percentage split at higher rates of infection in 14 days and a share of positive ones in testing. Unfortunately, the fissure in the Mediterranean is much bigger in all countries than in Croatia, and this will be seen although the tourist sector has been vaccinated with around 70%, therefore the hotelers who have invested both significant funds and investors are calling and saying, it should be made aware that the split is not enough and should be increased. We have 55.68% vaccinated in the Republic of Croatia with 31.12.2001. In our competing countries, Portugal has more than 90%, Spain 85%, Italy 81%, Greece 72%, France 78%, Turkey 67%. I think these are the numbers we really need to worry about. It's all up to us. I call on everyone, especially us from coastal counties, not enough to just vaccinate the tourist sector, but all the population. As some colleagues have said, unfortunately this list will lead to us being some percentage higher, but surely our colors of infection will be much darker and sadder than there will be of us competitive countries. Surely then their countries will invite them to give up their journey to our country, although, as they say today, reservations for the season are somewhere and better than in 2019. We know that all of this is reflected in trends in the labour market and we are now saying that we have positive movements that are visible and in the number of employees, e.g. In December 2021, the number of employees was 1 573 000 and slightly higher, which is an increase of nearly 100,000 employees compared to the famous September 2016. Here, once again my call for everyone to come out and in the largest number we are vaccinated because it depends on our existence, not only tourism, tourist activities, but it will, of course, reflect on the economy as well as on the number of employees and all of our other indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90467	Replica, the first respected representative... Anita Pocrnic Radošević. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90468	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, as I come from the county, which is well-oriented on tourism, same as yours, I would refer to some statistics from the beginning of the epidemic. So in Lika-Senj County, 8 373, the dead were 235. So it's a county that has 43,000 inhabitants. The total mortality is, unfortunately, in the first place, the worst in the Republic of Croatia, 5 201 died per million people, while the average in the Republic of Croatia was 3 015. The data are really worrying and we are aware that indeed the only way to combat the epidemic is to respect epidemiological measures, and the only available cure and prevention so far is to vaccinate, therefore, once again I ask all my fellow citizens to reconsider, they are being vaccinated because the 235 deceased from Covid is really too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90469	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90470	Thank you very much, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. It is truly surprising to see the number coming from Ličko-Senj County, especially as I have seen it in this report, says the plan to introduce a vaccination against Covida-19 disease in Croatia and now says, in most counties we have active during the reporting period between 4 and 40 points, and it also includes, for example, the Lika-Senj County where 40 vaccination points are active in continuity. So the largest number in Croatia per county, according to population numbers, is only 43,000 inhabitants, so here is my appeal to all, and especially to the residents of Lika-Senj County where we see that the possibilities for vaccination have been created, and yet it is such a bad response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90471	Next replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, fellow Members, for talking about the tourism sector that records actually a good booking now, but which is in its own danger because the new rules that have entered into force for the EU and digital certificates, but also for the organisation of travel, actually take into account the Covid map as well. What I am interested in from the experience you have and data from the field, do you think that such a situation with a weak fissure can challenge the tourist season and whether we have other instruments besides vaccines that we can use to actually be for tourists the country they want to come to and feel safe when it comes to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90473	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90474	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. So surely the safety of the guests is first and that when the guest chooses the destination, he will choose the one who is the safest for him. I believe that this good response and a good and large number of reservations for this season where they say it is sometimes better than for 2019 is the result of the situation from last tourist season, but it can change very, very quickly. When the first tickets come out and our country or some of our coastal counties get a darker color, then the cancellations will begin. I'm afraid it can really come to that, but here, once again and from this pay phone, I will appeal to all my fellow citizens to come out, to split. Unfortunately, Dalmatian counties also have the lowest fissure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90475	Next replica, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90476	Thank you. My colleagues, you said, a good booking announces the Minister of Tourism, which is true, you said about the Covid cards, you listed the split of competitors, and you're actually coming from Vodice, it's a strong tourist town, there I think everyone has to do with the possibility of making a profit in tourism, whether it works in it or has some sort of side activity that it has, which it has. Well, me, I have to say, I don't really get it. Since it's not enough motive to have more resources, to live better, to have some dreams, wishes, and all that you have ahead of you, because I won't be vaccinated for some reason that's completely scientifically unfounded. Here, this phenomenon to me, it's not clear to me. He's tied to all of Dalmatia and some other people, but here you are, coming from Vodice, that's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90477	Thank you, dear colleague of the coat of arms. And I'm surprised and shocked, many times when I hear from a fellow citizen who did, I won't tell him the basic source of income because there's almost no house that, I say, or people in the coast that doesn't live on tourism and for tourism, and then he says that he wouldn't still be vaccinated, here he is, not against it, but he'll think about it a little bit more because we see that even the largest number of nights have just been achieved in household facilities, which means he talks over 32 million overnights we've achieved, which says that mostly guests come to family homes where it's extra income or our pensioners or I don't know, our fellow citizens with some more modest incomes that decide on both this kind of activity and so on and so on, and the worst separation is right in our counties. It's surprising, but I think if there's really a reservation cancellation, it's going to be the biggest warning for all of them, and then they're going to go. vaccinate. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90478	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90479	Dear fellow Members, I will also, too, join all those who call for vaccination, I would say that in this assembly there is actually a little bit of parliamentary representatives who do not invite, is, on vaccination and it is in general, not only at the time of Covid's most, the medical procedure which I would say in the history of medicine the most credit, is whether, why, the best one medical procedure. But here we have the fact that with all these vaccination calls, we have a poor fissure and the question is again at the end of the responsibility. So if we've been calling for vaccination for 2 years now, we can see that it doesn't work, especially among the older population, which here, according to data over 50 years, 30% of people have not been vaccinated at all with one vaccine. Is there any way we can change tactics and get some other tools to We promote that vaccination? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90480	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90481	So here's from, thank you, colleague Puljak. Well, this report shows what's going on and on. What is done, in which way the older population is motivated, and also, from the presentation and discussion of colleagues, Bačić, we see what the elderly say. It's very important to them what they're going to say to their younger housewives. Our family medical teams see that each and every one of them invited their patients, I know from experience in their Guides how she is a doctor of family medicine, so once you call that elderly person, then the second time, there is someone who after a few calls still decides, but it is a really small, small percentage, although it is seen daily that there is a fatal outcome such a patient when he suffers from Covid, regardless, still a large number of our citizens remain unvaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90482	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90483	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Here's how you yourself said that the economic indicators in the past year were more than good, that's indeed a confirmation that these measures against the Covid crisis were also well hit, that they were largely balanced, and that in some ways, I would say, the slalom with Covid had been well driven in the past year. Now, that's all right, the opposition says well, that's fine, but that would be all right if we brought that with a two-thirds majority. I can't really believe that these 25 additional votes of parliamentary MPs would be worth more than what hundreds say, not to say thousands of medical experts who eventually conceived or prescribed these measures. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90484	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90485	Thank you very much, colleague Shashin. I agree with you. First we see what they say about any research, how much trust there is in politicians. Far greater confidence is in health care professionals, doctors, and no matter what they call daily, what they appeal for, the response is as it is. I don't know what would help, for sure, that our Staff, Ministry and Government are daily considering what these ways are and how to further motivate our population, surely to see experiences from other countries, as I said, for us competitive tourism countries such as Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, France. We see what's happening next door, now next door, but I, Slovenia, Austria, in Austria, what's going on. Nevertheless, we have rebels who put it all in a second, third plan and some inscriptions that we can see in the anti-Vaxer and that amount. And that's what they're talking about to ours. [[Intruder: Time.]] You demoted your fellow citizens. [[Intruder: Next replica...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90486	Dear Representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90487	Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. Croatia is a tourist country and the share of tourism makes up almost 20% of our GDP and you and your debate have agreed almost and all about tourism. The government has worked through various support to preserve jobs, part of those measures, and of course the tourism sector. Last year's results were above all expectations. After a successful season last year, we have an uncertain year ahead of us when it comes to tourism. Is it also whether units of local and regional self-government can do more to vaccinate and raise awareness of our citizens and whether, of course, we will compete with more successful Mediterranean countries when it comes to fissure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90488	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90489	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk. So surely I can also invite and motivate and organise checkpoints that are more accessible and similar, but you mentioned the measures, so here I would say that today, at this meeting, the Minister with the tourism sector has been commended precisely the measures that still have, i.e. the continuation of jobs with agencies that have made it easier for the next 2 months to prepare for the season, of which the first larger wave of tourists in Croatia can be expected in mid-April when the Easter and school holidays, of course, are expected and good epidemiological images, or better than so far. So even now, here, tourist agencies are still using measures to preserve jobs, and the entire tourism sector, if it hadn't been for these measures, would have been left without this and few chefs, waiters and all other tourism employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90490	Next replica, respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90491	Dear colleagues, however, it is precisely more or less what you said in your reading presentation, more or less from statistics, and the fact is that we do not have a good cleavage and that it will greatly affect our tourist season, which, as you said, begins very quickly, or pre-season, which is in a little over 2.5 months. We invite, too, as you have told the citizens to be vaccinated to protect themselves primarily, but also others and to have a good tourist season, but we believe, and we also see from the data that it is simply not enough because we have a slow growth of fissure. We were at 56.8% yesterday. Did those who needed it, which is the Staff and the Government, do an analysis which is why people are afraid. I do not want to believe that in Croatia we have 40% of the citizens who are anti-vaxers and how to approach them and see if there is a possibility that these fellow citizens are also being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90492	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90493	Thank you very much, colleague Lerotić. I hope and expect the Staff indeed and the Government and the Ministry together to find ways to acquire these remaining citizens unvaccinated because they can question us not only tourist season but also economic growth, the number of employees, higher unemployment, leaving Croatia, and I am sure that they are thinking first of all about what they are doing and that we will almost get some suggestions either on the table or they will by their decision, regulation or by what measures they will contribute to greater fissure in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90494	Next is an individual debate, the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today we are talking about the report from September 1st to December 31st 2021. However, we live in the era of oxidous soybeans when there are many more infected but fewer difficult cases. Some experts believe that the omicron strain also means the beginning of the end of the pandemic, predicting that almost everyone will get infected very soon, making it better vaccinated. As almost the whole of Europe records a record number of infections, data from clinics say that the number of ills doesn't jump at the same pace, the omicron is significantly more contagious, but it seems to be significantly lighter, that's what we know at this point. Hans Kluge, director for Europe at the World Health Organization, says that Europe can be expected to go towards the final stage of the epidemic, after this last wave of months, there will be good immunity in society against the crown or thanks to vaccination or because people are over the crown, and there should be a positive effect of spring and summer when there is less infection anyway. That's what dr. Gernot Marx, president of the German Association of Intensive Medicine Doctors, that in Germany's intensive departments, almost all of them are unvaccinated, but there is still a need to see particularly long-term effects, among the older than 60 years and among the unvaccinated and time will show that when all this is over, there will be different analyses that will certainly question the good, and especially the bad ones. At the beginning of the pandemic there was talk of a lack of bed in the intensive care departments, but soon it was seen that there was enough protective equipment, tests, vaccines, but still it was in some much better equipped health systems and richer health systems, say 20% of intensive care departments couldn't work because of lack of medical staff. If we look at the situation that almost 2 years from the time of the global pandemic Covid, so as many as 70% of people who work in nursing homes and 30% of healthcare workers are considering changing jobs. So the pandemic has definitely increased their dissatisfaction and the problem of lack of medical personnel is visible on political agendas as well as in the media. The role of scientists has become, I would say, more importantly, but science has absolutely no truth, everything here is changing very quickly. Today's worth one thing, tomorrow's the other. At first, there was a weight on the hygiene arm, then it was seen that the main route of transmission was by air. So, it all pointed out to multidisciplinary teams and in the first plan rightly were infectologists, epidemiologists, but also to consider pedagogical science all those problems that are conditioned by online teaching or, let's say, psychological consequences, mental consequences, which will certainly be seen in the longer term. So we know today that the pandemic creates enormous mental difficulties, work overload, so the change in the modeality of work from home has led to certain, let's say, changes in addictive patterns of behavior that will also, after some time, be seen also the situation in which we can say that there are 3 risk groups, such as young people, elderly people and health workers. Finally, I would say something about discrimination against cancer patients, who simply because of the fact that certain people reject what professional societies say and thus overload the health system, extend waiting lists, that's something they're not talking about. Today, we had a thematic session where they were representatives of associations of people suffering from malignancies or whose family members suffer from malignancies. It should also consider the fact that healthy people who do not want to be vaccinated in some way should not only burden the health system but also burden or create more likely infections in people who suffer from malignancies and who, as such, may have more serious physical complications.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90496	We have a few replicas, the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90497	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Given the longevity of the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, the number of patients with serious consequences is growing. These are symptoms associated with the respiratory system, but they are much more difficult in the long term, as regards mental health. With 2 devastating earthquakes which, of course, was in the Republic of Croatia, can you tell me anything about post-Covid and long Covid, how much your profession is involved in this and what perhaps age groups by you are the most endangered, and as far as mental health is concerned?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90498	Thank you, dear colleague Maximchuk. A fellow Sacic talked about it, so the transition from first to second week. It's logical that when a man's breath is lacking that you have to be primarily focused on it, but of course it's not just the respiratory system that's affected. We also have a situation where people get over, get out of the hospital, and then after a month, they have a stroke or they have certain arrhythmias that are life-threatening. The question of the psychological consequences of post-Covid, in the framework of long Covid, is something that surely the waist will have to give certain answers. Our scientists coined one term “crovid” so other than the situation of Covid, which is globally, we have had two devastating earthquakes. You and Covid can sort of, if you respect epidemiological recommendations to fight, but you can't fight with an earthquake. So it's an additional burden for the mental health of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90499	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90500	Thank you. Dear counterpart Celic, in the previous replica, I looked back on the bad outcomes and the fact that the highest mortality per million inhabitants was recorded in Lika-Senj County. I did not get to mention vaccination, and by the end of 2021, 59% of the total population in Lika-Senj County received at least 1 dose of the vaccine, and 56.9% were completely vaccinated. It encourages the fact that it's in the 11th and 12th months. A higher response of the population to vaccination has been recorded and we must certainly commend the fact that we have out of 40 vaccination points in Lika-Senj County, so we are at the end of 2021. Ended up in 4th place by cleavage in the Republic of Croatia. And now, are people, as you as a doctor think that people have become more aware of the danger and that the solution is in vaccination and have finally concluded that, as you have pointed out, they will go better when they are infected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90501	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90502	Thank you. Dear colleague Pocrnic Radošević. So there are a number of reasons that are taken into account why someone, why some country is more split, is less split. For example, an example from Spain, so they're there in Madrid, there's no way to play hockey on ice because the ice halls were full of corpses and some medics say in Spain, that's one of the reasons why the higher rate of fissure was, say, in Spain. Remember, for example, the situation in Portugal where they had to transport to Germany with aircraft severely affected covid patients. It is good and positive that Ličko-Senj County is now the fourth. What's the problem, so it's definitely a problem with Dalmatia. I am very pleased and congratulate Professor Betica Radić on the Dubrovnik City Award. I also expect the St. Duja award from the city of Split for Professor Ivic. They're really heroes. Those people who work at this point, and what was quoted, so it was quoted the day after 16 people died of covid in KBC.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90503	The next replica, respected representative Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90504	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Celic, you and I are coming from the health system and we are aware of how many pandemics covida-19 have led us to new challenges. Here I am remembering for myself the first positive patient we've received from the department, and I remember that after that, we haven't left our families in days of fear of infecting them. For now, for two years of continuous stress, the medical staff and the entire health system must have had major consequences. Are there answers and developed models in which to help people on the first line of defense?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90505	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90506	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Baradić, there are studies on people who have survived in the intensive treatment units according to whom 20% of people develop PTSD after surviving in the intensive treatment departments. In addition to the patients themselves, certain serious mental problems can affect members of their families, but health care professionals as well. So, this burning syndrome, this "burnout" syndrome is one big problem, and that information that I've been talking about is that everything and the number of health workers are thinking about changing their profession is about the weight of these problems. We had absolutely the support of the Ministry of Health so that we developed certain online programs, anti-stress modules at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, and so it is in some other mental health centres so that we absolutely had support there and I think that the ministry had an understanding of that aspect as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90507	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90508	Dear Representative, as you come from the medical profession, perhaps you can say something more about it. I'm interested in Remdesivir, more specifically I saw in the Vekluda report that his commercial name was obtained and a huge number that surprised me that a total of 163 million 942 thousand kuna was paid for this medicine. Since I personally received it on the advice of a doctor, for five days I was hospitalized by a covid on minimal oxygen and I was recommended, received it for five days, no use to me, no harm. But my roommate, who can testify by name and name, has been very sick since the first dose, and then they stopped giving it to him. And after leaving the hospital after 10 days, I saw the news that Remdesvir would no longer be given, that it was not recommended. So I want to know what you know about why it's been bought so much, who brought that assessment, what are the effects of this drug?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90509	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90510	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasputi Remdesivir is one of the antiretroviral medicines most commonly given in HIV-positive patients. As it is very important to recognise that there are no specific complications between the first week and the second week so it is very important to give this antiretroviral medicine at the right time. My parents received both father and mother Remdesivir while they were at the General Hospital of Dubrovnik. They say it helped them, some say it didn't help. Each medicine has, therefore, different studies that talk about greater or less efficiency. There are studies that say it wasn't effective. As regards the order Remdesivir for the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Health Ministry’s Crisis Staff, I can tell you that the order is determined according to the recommendation of the roof professional society, i.e. the Croatian Infectological Society. There was a special working group of experts dealing with the problem of viral infections and based on this opinion is then The Republic of Croatia ordered this medicine. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90511	Replica, respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90512	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned among other things the need of individual health institutions for the temporary deployment of healthcare professionals, as well as the need to deploy medical technical equipment. So here's how I come from Sibenik-Knin County I can't help but notice that one of the eight hospitals that needed employees is just the General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County as well as some smaller hospitals such as Zabok, Čakovec, Biograd, etc. Also, the need for the deployment and lack of medical-technical equipment one of the seven hospitals is again our General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County and on that list again we have Čakovec, Koprivnica, Zabok and so on. So here's the call to the ministry when it's in future issuing both consent and getting some medical technical equipment to take care of these hospitals where this pandemic needed this kind of equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90513	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90514	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, depending on the figures, and on the epidemiological situation at a certain point, was a greater need, for example, for the number of respirators at the General Hospital of Varazdin. Unfortunately, in the last month, there has been little good information about the Sibenik General Hospital regarding the number of hospitalized and the number of deaths. This is where, if taken into account and the coordinating body by the Ministry of Health sought to deliver respirators as soon as possible as possible if necessary. Also co-ordination in cooperation with the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Nurses. Let's just say from my psychiatric clinic, Vrapce regularly had about 20 nurses and medical technicians, for example, mostly at Rockefeller or the Infectious Diseases Clinic, and I think there was an absolute health system that adequately responded to the needs, but it should be considered when we talk about waiting lists. So at this point 200 respirators are positive for covid, and 200 respirators are for others. So, of course it's coming up. Slowing some other processes because a significant number of respirators are busy for covid. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90515	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colic, we know that the occurrence of malignant diseases is one of the major public health problems not only in the Republic of Croatia but throughout Europe with a tendency to increase. To in some ways lead to acceptable prevention is important, early diagnostics are important, but it is also important to treat existing cancer patients in the right way to have good diagnostics and availability of all those systems that are important for them to stay on their feet and to hope to heal. But with the phenomenon of the pandemic, the system has become overloaded. Medical professionals, therefore, health care professionals and nurses are mostly concentrated according to the resuscitation of this pandemic condition, and it seems to me that cancer patients, in particular, have somehow fallen into another plan. I'd like to hear from you what data you're processing, and what can we do in that segment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90517	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90518	Well, dear colleague Petyr, I'm glad you've opened that topic. So the entire health system that was more or less tense was maximum focused on covid. The health ministry has recognized this from the beginning and has asked health institutions that work with cancer patients that there is no waiting list, that cancer patients are a priority. However, individual examples took place. After 11 years of waiting, the National Strategic Framework for Combating Cancer was adopted. Soon, we also expect an action plan for the three-year period, the next three-year period. So we want to increase the outcomes, improve the quality of life and reduce the death rate. Unfortunately, then, the Republic of Croatia when combined with EU member states is not only at the beginning of the death toll, but also with many other matters. So we have to keep working to change the situation for the better, and that resolute ministry absolutely does.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90519	The next individual debate is a respected representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90520	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is although today's debate has the title Report on the effects of implementing measures and the Law on the protection of the public from infectious diseases for the period from 1 September to 31 December this debate has gone far beyond the title today. So basically today we've been discussing almost all the measures that the Staff has taken since the start of the pandemic until today. From the debate that we could hear today at least from the opposition in essence, honor of exceptions has been reduced to the fact that the opposition was only dealt with by criticism, defilement often and by making up facts, labels of members of the Staff and so on as to say by denying and the negative effects of all the measures that the Staff has brought from the beginning of the pandemic to this day. There is no limit to the amount of anger our opposition has on the headquarters and on the measures of the Staff. Also, according to our opposition, the unlimited guilt that the Staff has been wearing for the past two years. All that the Staff has done is wrong, and all that the Staff has not done according to the opposition would be the right thing to do, and that would save our people, and that would bring peace and prosperity. For this our report, the opposition said it had crossed into Parliament's routine, that there was a lot of information and half-information, but it doesn't answer their questions. And what their questions are we hear every day, and in that they are clearly, articulated. So we heard yesterday it's the government's wrong, when the government's going to leave and the headquarters's wrong, when will the Staff leave, and when will they finally be able to lead both the country and the headquarters? Then it'll be all right. All these two years, our opposition that would lead both the country and the Staff has so far given millions of solutions to the pandemic, and almost every new solution was in complete contrast with what they said yesterday. So one day they would test the entire population and adults and children, the next day they say that testing is a violation of their human rights and that it should not be done. Well, they are for covid certificates, but the next day, they're covid's unnecessarily necessary, so they'd test everything again, but they wouldn't test the children. They wouldn't even test it, because it's too expensive. Our opposition was also terribly angry because there were no vaccines, because the vaccines didn't arrive on time. They didn't arrive when they imagined it, it didn't cost as much as they imagined. The vaccines were too small or too much, so they were angry with how they were being vaccinated, so who was being vaccinated, and eventually some of them were completely against vaccination. Unfortunately, it all comes down to the fact that they're in power would be great. And how great would that be, don't ask them, because they don't know. The national headquarters, together with all medical staff in the Republic of Croatia, carries a heavy burden on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, takes measures based on the scientific data identified, taking into account all rights of individuals and the economic stability of the state. It brings measures based on daily monitoring of the effects and harmfulness of the virus and adapts and the same measures to protect our health system. So we can see in this report that on November 29, 2021, the largest number of patients with covid-19 had been reported in hospital treatment of 2598 of whom 385 patients were undergoing intensive treatment. It's a great burden on any health system, including ours. And lo and behold, our health system survives even though the opposition said nothing is wrong. Unfortunately, COvid-19 in our country has killed a large number of people. Every death is a tragedy, and tragedy is a team bigger if it could be avoided. In many cases, it could have been avoided that patients were vaccinated by all scientific data, that vaccinated persons have far less chances of having a severe illness, hospitalisation, and hence death. These data should be sufficient for all of us to be vaccinated and protected from severe illness. But that's not enough. Thus, the Chief of Staff also launched and continuously campaigned to promote vaccination, stressing the positive effects of vaccination. The campaign itself should be good enough and good because it is light, for it encourages people to protect their own health. However, the campaign unfortunately failed in our country, had little effect. And why didn't she? That's not easy to answer. Apparently, more factors affect people’s decision not to vaccinate, thus jeopardizing their health. Certainly one factor is the statements of our opposition that degrades the actions of the Staff, which also degrades the positive effects of vaccination. That's why today we have a high mortality rate of covida-19 with unvaccinated persons. The report is correct, it's brought every three months. It shall state all relevant information which occurred during the period covered. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90521	We have a few replicas. The first is Honored Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90522	My dear colleague, Brkan, when you were so quick to rephrase to me earlier, I remembered that you had already been doing some work around the crown, so I found the record of the City Council of Makarska from March two years ago, 2020. There's a tone record, but I'll read it. You said: “I thank you. We've reached the crown again. How's that? I call upon our citizens, our people, panic is created from nothing. Grab on to yourself, your worries, what Maria said. Clean the yard, clean the gardens, get ready for the season, be nice to your neighbors. That's what you get. Corona means disease, a disease with symptoms of a slightly stronger cold. Man, he's holding us all in quarantine, so I can't blame him. God forbid tourism will cause us damage to the crown. So what do we do? Because of the panic, not because of the disease. Be people a little smart, let them wash their hands, personal hygiene, deodorant and all. When you come to the office, there's no word for you. Well done, personal hygiene first and mentally and physically. Please." said Brkan in response, so I'm interested in continuing education which you have concluded for omicron which is best? Brutus, Pino Silvestre or maybe Shanoar?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90523	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90524	On March 6, 2019, there was a nice hot day in Makarska. We had a session of the City Council of Makarska that lasted a long, long time. My statement of deodorant was after the City Council meeting and referred to opposition council members. Also, my statement on the corona was given to a colleague of the SDP, a city councilwoman who had interfered with the topic we discussed how she knew in her manner and went on then to tell us about the crown. Otherwise, six. In March 2019 a new restaurant opened in Makarska, it was a concert by Zeljko Bebeka, it was the main thing and the main news. However, some guys call themselves politicians like you from MOST came up with the idea to compose it all and then take advantage of it a year later. Neither the journalists, nor the councilmen who were at that council's session ever used it and never put it in context like you and MOST put it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90525	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90526	Mr. Brkan, so what now gives in what context not to put your statement. It's not about the context, it's about what you said about the crown itself and how it should be protected from the crown. You didn't answer the question of how we'd protect ourselves from omicron. But what I'm interested in, so it's clear that someone wrote this for you. What's your point of view about all this now? Did these consequences that we have on the economy, therefore, come because of the lockdown, among other things, and did the Chief of Staff bring all the measures he had rightly? Were they worth one criteria for Mr. Beros and I don't know the elite on the Pelješ Bridge, and other criteria for ordinary people. So they were terrorized. What do you generally think there were errors in the work of the Staff? From this presentation of yours, it seems it wasn't, that everything was ideal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90527	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90528	The one who writes to, you showed it a long time ago here in one session when you read something together that you didn't write and it didn't pass, so then you took us out, and then you went fighting, so there was all this stuff. That's how it ends when the Most writes to each other. What I said today, that the Staff is in these and such circumstances and knowledge that we have done the best that it could in order to preserve the health of the Croatian people. What our opposition does is absolutely the opposite. It is doing everything to obstruct the Croatian Government's headquarters, so that it will be in a position to lead both the Staff and the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90529	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90530	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's not true that we're not constructive. So I asked you nicely based on your primary knowledge against omicron is Brutus, Pino Silvestre or Shanoar better how your knowledge developed? We just want to be constructive, so answer us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90531	You can't. [[Can I have the same injury?]] This was a replica, you get a warning. Here's a violation of the Jure Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90532	Injury of the Rules of Procedure on Mr. Rasdic's exposure. Article 238 has been injured. He mentions the perfume Brutus, Pino Silvestre, everything. I don't know. I'll probably ask my wife who dresses me and buys me perfumes just like his.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90533	And this injury wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90534	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Brkan, I have a question for you. How many such discussions as this one is now, say, specifically this last one, how much they actually contribute to getting as many people inoculated, or that as many people as possible don't die in this country than the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90535	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90536	Well, unfortunately, I'm afraid that we are today a parliamentary democracy, it's our place to express the views of the people who chose us, to represent them here. However, I know what is important in our people who, at least the HDZs, have chosen us to do in their well-being, and all that has come down today, I repeat the honor of the exceptions by the opposition again. I don't see in anyone's well-being, except for their particular, petty things that would say pettyly their own satisfaction to some who they think the tribune is a bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90537	Next replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Brkić, in this inspiring and... I would like you to add your opinion on the proposal to abolish Covid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So do you know in which country the Covid certificates have been abolished in Europe right now, and what does it mean for us to be in Croatia if the only one in Europe would have abolished Covid's certificates? Is this an attempt to getoise Croatia and us to be exclusively limited in the movement of Croatia or is it a contribution to the development of medical science in Croatia and the world?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90539	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90540	He's been injured. 238. A colleague of Bačić, the abolition of Covid's certificate is not a goyoisation of Croatia in Europe, many European countries, meaning Finland, Denmark thus announce the abolition of Covid's certificates, or have already made those decisions, Spanish scientists, meaning recent research that almost equally vaccinated and unvaccinated extended virus, it is no ghettoisation It's about accepting scientific facts. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you're those Covid certificates. [[Intruder: Time.]] done great damage to Croatian health care [[Intruder: Time.]] the system and Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90541	This was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90542	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. 238, he demeans the other MPs, citing that Covid's certificates were abolished in certain EU Member States, not, that's one thing, and the other thing, not that they took away, but that Covid saved thousands of lives, only from 1. In September, when they were introduced, according to the most conservative assessment, a colleague of the bush, at least 500 human lives were saved that those who did not have Covid, who were positive, entered [[Intruder: Time.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90543	And this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90544	Dear Representative Bačić, here I am, if I knew one better solution to, and basically, the answer to the Covid-19 virus than Covid's confirmation and vaccination, if I knew it, if Europe knew it, if the world knew it, then Covid would cancel the certificates. There is currently no better solution, a response to the Covid-19 virus epidemic than vaccination and Covid confirmation that restricts the spread of the same virus. So far it's like that, when something else comes up, then normally it's time for them to cancel and Covid to confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90545	You're Mr. Jure's speech. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90546	He's been injured. 238, therefore, a colleague of Brkan is talking about it, and it is being attached to a colleague of Bačić that no country has abolished Covid's certificates, Denmark abolished them 3 days ago and many other European countries have announced the suspension, Denmark has abolished the Covid certificate 3 days ago, check it out. Check it out, she's lifted Covid's certificates and all the measures. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90547	Okay, and you're getting a second warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90548	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Again, a colleague of the Grmoy was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, again demeaning and insulting us. Not that no country is a member of the EU, it has not abolished but the EU Commission is proposing, it will probably be adopted, that Covid is confirmed to extend until June 2023. Therefore, this is what the official EU policy is saying at the moment, and we will see how Member States behave in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90549	We have a second warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next is an individual debate, the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90550	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. If at first I had a little joke with regard to the ruling, everything we've heard about running a pandemic and the results of it, it might be best to gather political courage and vote that there's really no need for this report to come to the Assembly and that we're even talking about Covid because everything is perfect, and for everything that's going on wrong is only the wrong citizens and it's the wrong opposition. If that's the case, let's close that story. Since these reports are being recycled, we already have a few waves, I will repeat something that I repeat every time, the Staff headed with Minister Berosha very well to do their job, they had unquestionably trusted both the Croatian public and the opposition. This is best discussed by the decisions made at the Parliament at the time, which is also best discussed by Minister Beros's result in parliamentary elections with his preferential votes, but then someone, whether because of their own political career, decided to take pandemic management and medicine from a whim to a minister and master these processes politically. We had new interpretations which were self-insulation or not self-insulation and that now I do not list everything that happened, except the peak of everything, is someone, and it was not a minister, declared Croatia's victory over the Covid pandemic. After that there were 1st half, 1st extension, 2nd extension, before the penalty, after the penalty, all the interpretations were given and after that victory over the Covid pandemic, everything that happens around Covid pandemic, and what happens is terrible things, the figures we have all this time, are all the citizens and it's all the wrong opposition. So it's the citizens' fault that someone took crisis management into political hands, which is why they lost confidence, which is what we have a very bad result when we talk about cleavage, and we didn't have the courage to end up making certain decisions, to improve and improve something, and that we are in Europe and the world by mortality in all measures in the first 5. Now, I can't blame all the citizens for that, and as the government sees it all together and the whole health sector is the best way to say that 6 billion kunas have been taken down in this year's budget right now in the sector that has been hit most and which, along with its employees and employees, has brought the greatest burden of this crisis. The opposition proposed so-called. a traffic light after which it would be clearer to what and when the measures were taken and it could have been a positive guideline for both the citizens and all of us who are involved in this debate, every time we ran away from it and we have some interpretations of the figures themselves. Perhaps if we call so much to the opposition, someone will now be willing to accept the debate on this traffic light because it could tell us a lot what is the next plan to go out or end the pandemic if it is possible to normalize life. And not throwing measures like we have around Covid's school, we will, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't, we won't. And since this health pandemic has also brought enormous psychosis to society itself, but it has also brought enormous economic uncertainty this part of the debate is not related to Minister Beros, but it would be much better if I were Prime Minister Plenkovic here in the assembly to come and say what economic effects and problems have come out of this pandemic, and we all see them and we all feel them, especially people who are socially endangered and here in front of this House says okay, the pandemic has brought Europe and the world, structural, economic problems that we all know very well about. So our government will deal with the rise in energy prices in a way that will reduce VAT and reduce what can be reduced, and not just drag it, think about it, watch it will be, won't be. So our government will deal with what trade chains are doing that are waved in the Republic of Croatia because it is not normal that the purchasing power of Croatia is nowhere near Slovenia or Italy, and when compared to the consumer basket, it turns out that we have 30.35% more expensive. So here they're going to say that the government is ready to trust the banks, but also part of what HEP is creating in this situation is aimed at helping citizens. It will be an adequate continuation of everything that we missed in the fight for health because we have had huge problems, and if this is all over the economy, and it's starting to spill over, I'm afraid these figures that we have now had on the census in 10 years will be declared fantastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90551	Next is the debate of the respected Mira Bulj, he's gone, he's losing the debate. And there's Miro... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] And I didn't. You went quietly and went into legend. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90552	I guess the people are watching this. And then there's no wonder for the Honorable Minister. [[Intruder: To watch.]] I will only say it briefly at the beginning of the pandemic, and Plenkovic's snowflake Boric knows it well, I can see that he mentioned me saying they say this whole time before in style not that I am like you uncle of Zagora Plekovic.../incomprehensible/... but that you often mentioned me in your speeches today. If anyone at the beginning of the pandemic was ready and worked then I was all in line with the Minister's measures. But the day the farmers were punished for having no one to break the isolation, they were charged with code numbers then Hrebac came here that was a certain isolation, and Capak confirmed to him the ministers that he could come here to vote for the majority in the assembly. Prime Minister Plenkovic's flakes said he won the virus in the election you haven't yet answered how much the virus is, whether it has ears, whether it has tails. When you caught him saying he guaranteed safety by winning the virus. Minister, at the vampire-spreading virus ball when you called on young people not to go outside, it was you who could have been on the Peljesian Bridge. Obviously the only party card you have, which is the ruling party card and your coalition partners, the SDSS Milorad Pupovac, can be on the Peljesk Bridge in half the night. Did you send any kind of inspection or anything? You're not. Ministers, when you called on young people to stand at home not to infect, not to carry the disease to their elders, you sent pictures with estrogen stars or someone on social networks was spreading, however not with the beauty of our esthera, they spread through social networks. Minister, when she was in all of Croatia just before her colleague from Vodice boasted with tourism, when Marko Perkovic sang to her everywhere, but when he came to Sinj before the elections then you said she couldn't drink in Sinj, we recommend not to drink, and the same night in other cities when 13 million people in Croatia would have ministers about it. When the whole blue and Chetish end went to Livno during the day of the Alka and the Great Lady in the evening I asked you as mayor of the conversation, that I felt it was necessary to discuss that our young people were going to another country. You were defending us concerts, and Mile Kekin was banned. I'm the river drinking at least I was a drummer and drinking both Thompson and Mile Kekin, and you wanted to ban it, and you boasted with 13 million tourists. Why did you do this to Sinjo? Why did you do that explain here? You who violate measures, you are the main offender of all measures. You say you can't go to a closed space, what you play with a mask, and you can go to your clock without a mask and talk to him without any problem, you can do it, you can do it. I'm not lying. I'm telling the truth, just the truth. Also, a colleague of Bujević's masks don't rub, masks don't help, and now.../incomprehensible/... from nose to ear, so who he's lying to, so not the people of the dead, you're not a dead end, so the minister today admits that Covid's confirmation is not protected, the other Covid confirms that he's vaccinated others, so that's what I've been saying all along. So you said to me today, perhaps you said it by mistake. [[Who said they weren't protecting?]] So you apologize to the people, did you say wrong? [[Intruder: No.]] Can anyone vaccinated with Covid's confirmation, ministers, whether they can be vaccinated with Covid's confirmation, transmit the infection, so you said they could. [[Intruder: Please don't talk.]] You said today, so all the time we're telling you that the measures are not right for you and that the effects on the economy are seen the effects of inflation collecting prices, we see what's going on or, for example, what's going on. The Ministers' inspection comes to me every day, controls the measures, and the county is the same building in the lower floor no one left, no measures, but the mayor of Bulja's sea. You know why? Because I'm obviously your virus. The only virus. I'm sorry I don't have more time to read and say, and please Plenkovic's flakes...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90553	You have one replica. Replica's esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90554	Here I am today reading the portals in this spare time and I see the man of the municipality of Djulovac certain isolation from January 20th to January 29th, he left on Friday 28th, so the day before he came out of isolation and his sentence was set at 8 to 15,000 kuna. And when it's necessary for most of them to come, you tell him Capak you Dario you can have no problem and he comes out of isolation. Or you know what's stronger when the elections were then said even these infected can come to the elections to vote to hold elections at the time of the pandemic because at the time, as Plenkovic said, he guaranteed a safe Croatia, and now he's saying that Croatia is insecure, and now we have certain terrorist networks. So, one of these unfortunate attacks on Mark's square goes to show the prime minister that there are some stronger elements of terrorism in Croatia. So let's make a deal more Is Croatia safe and has really won the virus. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90555	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90556	Well, he had these examples that, for example, shrubs. On Hvar I am glad that the procession itself was, I am pleased, but the miraculous Lady Sinjska procesija 3 centuries have been banned as Our Lady's character conveys the disease. Never did the mercy of the miraculous Lady of Sinj harm the ministers of the people of Sinj and the province of Cetina, there were 100,000 people at that time. You've banned the centuries of tradition, and I'm glad you're not on Hvar. But why did you do it in Sinj, what's the reason? What's the reason he can go to Hvar and can't go to Sinj? And in a much more difficult situation on Hvar and may it be in Hvar I have no problem with it, but why can't Lady Sinjska 3 centuries ago in Sinj? For what? And as for the safe Croatia, it is sad to hear from the prime minister every day that the Croatian state is terrorist, these fences of fellow Petyr we see here are regrettable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90557	Next individual debate of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90558	Here I see a colleague, Boris, telling Zoka's little ones, and Kapulica, Zoka and Pupovac together at Club in Slovenia 9, together. And he says and sees Katičić writes on Twitter that he could move freely to the address of Draskovic 23, so he and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may be in Slovenia 9, where you were all hanging out. I didn't see Milanovic, so this one passed us in Vukovar, that's when I saw him. And you've all been hanging out together and agreeing together, and this Constitutional Court that you're about to try to mince a referendum with. So it's yours, it's your Boric comrades. They're your friends. These are your comrades if we agree on relations with the Croats in BiH, it would be good for us all to agree on that. And if we agree, and if we agree on that, then the relationship to the epidemic will be fine. And what we are telling you and we are glad that the President of the Republic agrees with us and that he has come to our positions and around BiH, so here's what we're saying. You deceive the public, therefore, says counterpart Bačić that no European country has abolished Covid's certificates. I give him an example, he cheats on the public again and says it's not, it's not true. And then from the left here they say, but as good as Denmark is split. So what are Covid's certificates for? If Covid's confirmations do not stop the spread of the infection, we agreed not to stop it, if they do not encourage people to be vaccinated in Croatia, and on the left today we heard that a new man in Split has been vaccinated, so what are the Covid certificates for you. Why, to terrorize people, what's the effect? So you don't stop the spread of the infection, you don't encourage people with Covid certificates to be vaccinated. So what's wrong with you? Do you realize that you're advocating something that has no effect at all? Why are we waiting for Boric to blink from Brussels and then we'll cancel Covid's confirmation, is that what we're waiting for? Well, I'm not waiting for that. The Croatian people told me what they wanted, the signatures, I'm not waiting for someone to blink. Just as Plenkovic is waiting now you promised here's Grlic Radman down on the Committee on Croatians and says he promised we'd settle the electoral law. What are you going to do about it? You're just waiting for someone to wink at you. You won't solve anything. So this one would be better, I don't know if this Milanovic attitude is a trick, but it would be better if you took that attitude at least around the Croats towards, Croats in BiH and relations to the epidemic. As far as headquarters is concerned, it is clear that it is no longer just a matter of abolishing Covid's certificate that this compromised headquarters, which the minister also said was not to be met. Who makes the decisions? So Plenkovic makes his decisions. I'm first in two years. When everyone admired and everyone was afraid to ask Berosh, Capak and the other superheroes said that in the end we would see who was doing what and that in this epidemic we should not lose our common sense, that all decisions should be questioned. So I was first at that meeting of the opposition and the prime minister when the prime minister suggested that he be given all the powers he had heard from him and told the prime minister that his speech reminds me of King Alexander's speech when he introduced the 6th dictation. You can't do this anymore, you can't make decisions without HS, you can't make decisions that don't have any basis anymore. I'm asking you, here's a minister who if people don't split for covid confirmation, if the covid confirmation doesn't stop the spread of the infection, what's the meaning of the covid certificate? What's the point of testing your children? According to Brkan, we're against it, so of course I'm against testing children because parents, you're going to give your parents tests, you think your parents are going to test the children. Who's gonna... Who's gonna care? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, the coronaryvirus for children isn't dangerous, it only makes sense, it only makes sense that control if children may not pass on the infection I don't know any further in the family, so the older ones, grandparents, so for children, the coronaryvirus isn't dangerous, especially the omicron, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90559	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90560	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. In 238, when he spoke about HDZ and BiH's stances. I just want to say that they made their position clear when we voted on the Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH. Then, along with the entire opposition and the SDP, they came out, didn't go out, ran out, not because they allegedly didn't want to adopt some of their amendments. They also wanted to amend the constitution for which they were not prepared in any way along with the SDP. That's your attitude, as well as what Col. Rasdic left behind, who says he's a big right-handed man today, and we know how he left Mostar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90561	You have a warning because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90562	Can I answer the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90563	You can't. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90564	This was an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90566	He didn't say an article, man, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90567	After the historic speech of Mr. Boric's snowflake, it was hard to tell me something now. But a colleague of Grmoja, it is very important that Prime Minister Plenkovic was executed, a man who spoke about stability and security, the safety that he caught a covid and that he won the covid, is that what he won the election. Stability and security are guaranteed, and today the country is due to this merciless and terrible event where... He did what he did to challenge, declares that the Croatian terrorist country, the code, is looking for terrorism. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how are we gonna get tourists to come here when the prime minister says it this way? And as for the covid, the cages of the senseless who swept in public space as if it were a pig or a pig and would pass through the square, here on Jelačić's salary when there was a concert or in Sinj mine. So what nonsense you've been doing, that's amazing. Now, comment on the safety and stability of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90568	Answer. Here's your esteemed representative, Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90569	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. 238, insulting MPs, and I believe that it offends a large number of inhabitants, the inhabitants of Croatia, our country. You really hit me when you speak to the terrorist state of Croatia. Do you know what you're saying? You've said that a few times here in this assembly, you've said it several times on public television on HTV. If you do not know how to speak the right Croatian literary language then do not, then it is better for you to remain silent, but here in the assembly you must speak in the correct Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90570	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90571	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90572	Time. You have, you have a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90573	How many warnings do I have?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90574	Two, two.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90575	I can ask. I can't? Oh, God, save it, you Buccarice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90576	Miro, Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90577	He hurt his colleague. In 238, where he puts in my mouth what Prime Minister Plenkovic says is a Croatian state, to push terrorism, to push terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90578	Please don't comment from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90579	Please warn your colleague, stop the time, please. Don't be, don't be nervous. From the prime minister when those words go out, and we're a tourist state, so who's coming? At this unfortunate event that needs to be condemned in such a way that the prime minister insists and works for the victim now that he's executed if there's a problem inside the HDZ, there's too much height, you'll see soon, he can't talk about the Republic of Croatia. It's a safe country for tourism and for all but you're pests. [[Intruder: Time]] which you have brought [[Intruder: Time]] to this situation, leading to this situation is you a snowball in Petrinja, you and a snowball in Petrinja's terrorist act and egg in Zadar is a terrorist act. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90580	I give you a reminder by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this subject. I'm giving you a measure of distance from the session today, Mr. Bulj. ... Fourth warning, that's it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90582	How much do you have to do with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90583	I won't discuss it with you. Ante Kujundzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90584	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238. I would like my colleague, Shaslin, to also warn counterpart Dragan Jeckov, coalition partner Milorad Pupovac and Anja Simprag when they come for a pay phone at HS and talk like they say. I believe you will have the same criteria then, and I will follow you, so I will now warn you to warn a coalition partner or you will have to remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90585	Here, you follow, and now you get a warning. Marijan Pavliček, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90586	Dear comrade Grmoya, here I have... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90587	And do I have an answer, do I have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90588	Here you go, Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90589	So we have an answer to the replica of my fellow Bulls. Excuse me, colleague Pavlichek, but here. Well, as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, you haven't done anything wrong, Mr. Bully, and those who report up and attack you obviously don't listen to what the Prime Minister says. He attempted an isolated incident under the fact that there is some kind of terrorist network that supports and aids such events, which would mean that in Croatia we have an organized terrorist group even parts of the opposition tried to push it in, which is very dangerous. And you are right to harm Croatia as a tourist country. If they had any sense, they wouldn't say that. And when tourists come to Mark's square, when they see the fence, when they ask these tourist guides they tell them Mark's square is closed because there was some kind of terrorist attack, the prime minister is talking about an organized terrorist network which is supported by the opposition, etc. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90590	Replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90591	Dear comrade Grumoja, I believe that you will agree with me, that of all the bad measures that have been introduced so far is one of the worst, and this is the introduction of testing for primary school children with announcements that this will be the same for kindergarten children, if it has been proven that almost no side effects and no symptoms are caused by the omicron variant precisely in children. I think it creates an additional psychosis for parents themselves so with their children that childhood turns into a nightmare through testing every few days but also through the recommendations of headquarters that children should be vaccinated with a vaccine that is far from that and that is tested and safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90592	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90593	So, we've seen from those announcements that children who have been vaccinated with one dose won't have to go into isolation, and that means they're actually pushing their parents to be vaccinated even though there's no excuse for that. Sweden has also made a decision that it does not really recommend the vaccination of children, there is no reason for that. And this test decision was asked according to HZJZ, I have even one of these queries, so they don't know, the answer of the Croatian Institute doesn't know what tests will be used, there's no study of health consequences, there's no study of long-term self-testing on emotional, mental and mental development and children's health. And that's what it's all about. Of course parents won't test children, it doesn't make any sense, it's a waste of money, and we have a huge crisis, people can't settle bills, so split some vouchers, increase people's amounts so they can pay basic bills. And let's not throw away the money for some friend of Berosha's. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90594	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90595	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, probably a very interesting word that rulings often use especially in election campaigns. Then it needs to be credible in everything. Is this political civil protection headquarters credible in its decisions? Let us remember when the first restrictive measures were taken, following the internal elections in the HDZ. Until then, the nation's health didn't matter. At the time, however, the party's interest was first. Is this headquarters credible when headquarters officials say on one occasion that masks have only psychological significance, and only a few months after they decide that masks are mandatory for all closed spaces? And then worse, just the members of that same headquarters are taken in the urinal shops, in the Spaladium Arena without a mask on their faces. Is this headquarters credible when making a decision that children in primary schools should not get mixed up if they do not go to the same classes, while these same kids on the same bus go to the same school? Is this headquarters credible when he brings and declares lockdown for the whole state, while not responding when information is released in public that numerous ministers are banking on basements and certain clubs at the time? A series of unworthy decisions. One of them is the decision to introduce a Covid certificate which unfortunately did not contribute to what should be done, which is a reduction of the infected because it has been scientifically proven that absolutely all of them are vaccinated and unvaccinated and those who have been over and those who have not been over it can carry this virus anyway. And perhaps the worst decision is that children need to be tested, primary school children that simply have no excuse. I've been over Covid-19 twice, and my wife, I've got three kids, they've all been in isolation with us, and she's been sleeping with us for three years, she's been going to kindergarten, and she hasn't had any symptoms, she probably didn't even have Covid-19, and now I should be testing her today every Monday for that kid Covid-19. So are you thinking about how this affects that child's psyche or my second child, six years old or eight years old, and all the other kids? We got into this psychosis, this spiral that's pulling us down. We create enemies everywhere, and we see danger in everything. Let's try to reset and have a different approach to this disease. Let us confess we have sinned, here and here we have sinned, and believe the people will believe you more after that. Admit your mistakes, but you should have a different approach. So we can't bomb our fellow citizens daily with the number of patients, every day for almost two years. So imagine how we would have worked if the main news in the journal had been this, today 25 deaths from cancer, 30 from stroke, 40 from this or that disease, and every day that, and every day that, and every day that. You know where she'd end up, everyone on antidepressants. Everyone on antidepressants, and a good part of psychiatric treatment. We need to change our approach to this disease. You've already met her well, and the experts have met her well. And you yourself confirm that this omicron variant thank God does not create severe diseases. To this number of infected thanks to God, we don't have many people on the respirator, he's even dropping. So we need to change this approach to disease and start living a normal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90596	The next individual debate is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90597	So, in other words, my colleague Pavlic, who died, let's move on with our normal lives. Here's some information for you that would start living a normal life. Last year 63,611 people died in Croatia, which is more in one year than any other year since World War II. So no more people in one year died since World War II. And now you're living a normal life, aren't you? The defeating statistics certainly contribute from one side to the pandemic, surely from the other side contributes to the fact that people have not gone to checkup and that they die from other diseases, but from December to December, which this report says we had on average since the beginning of the Corona 510 died a month more. So 510 people died more a month than on a five-year average before the crown a month. So it must be a worse situation now because it's exactly that time that we've been constantly at the top of the world by the number of dead per million when our colleagues and colleagues say today we've had a bus dead, we've almost had buses of the dead for months not now, haven't we? The liberal approach was chosen on purpose. So it's not a matter of chance, it's a choice of HDZ. And this debate between the right-wing opposition that requires even more liberal measures to relax a little bit to start living a normal life and the HDZ that warns people you're not exactly yourself is one play. Because we already have the most liberal measures in Europe. So let's get this over with, with that game. But about that one. So whether we're about to say what that movie Don't look up or look up, do you want to vaccinate or don't vaccinate regardless of what medical workers and workers, nurses, technicians, doctors, doctors have been living in one state for two years now. There's no need to talk too much about the Covid supplement. It means 10% on salary and 9 months after Covid came to Croatia. And that 10% not to the total amount of pay but only to those hours spent in the Covid departments, we don't have to talk about it at all. So it's in most cases 10 kuna in any case less than 200 kuna. This is not any addition, in any case it is not in relation to what other countries have introduced. But when I ask Minister Berosch why it didn't go to the benefit of a work internship that doesn't go to the checkout comes at the time when people are going to retire, so it's not the cost you need to take right away, but you'll take it at the time because when he comes to collect, then the minister told me what I absolutely crush myself with, or I'm glad that you answered that you agree with me. But you also answered me but then you started it. But it is not the role of the minister of political parties from the opposition... That's right, I'll answer you now. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So that's where we agree is not the role of the opposition's political parties to run or, of course, we did what we could, so we sent it to the conclusion procedure, and then you straightened out and said what you just said, so tell the unions to start. But listen, we can't tell the unions what to do, it's also not the function of the opposition political party. I can tell you what the workers and workers of the nurses who come to us and beg us not to give up on it, please keep that idea to us it's very important that it would save us just what if anything else is one symbolism. Because why do nurses come most often, I have to say the same because they are far more burdened. They are very few, and they are very busy, and they do not really have high wages, and they cannot even fix what doctors who often work in private practice have. And that's why we're losing those sisters who stop working, who go abroad, and we're actually staying in a very awkward situation. So please, if you agree to run it because it's somewhere in the government, and who's the other minister? So unions can't change laws. [[Intruder: Unions.]] So unions really do. It's not the ones who need to change the laws. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90598	The first replica of the esteemed representative, Marijan Paviliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90599	Dear colleagues, don't just let you Bolsheviks impute something I didn't say and play with who died and how many people died. It's not a game for me. You can't tell lies and lies on this pay phone and at the same time say who died and we move on. I didn't say that. [[That's what you said.]] You're bringing lies and lies out of this constituency box. Well, of course we should try to get back to normal life. [[You said we're starting to live normal.]] Is it normal to vaccinate children and keep them closed for 10 days constantly every few days in isolation? Is that normal? ... Is it normal to test children who have no symptoms? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Is that normal? Go back to normal. Look at the environment we're living in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90600	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90601	I think he's hurt. 238, because a colleague called his colleague a Bolshevik, and I don't think that's appropriate or polite.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90602	It can be treated like that, but it's more of a personal culture. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90603	Comrade Pavlich, you said to get back to normal. I literally quoted you, and you have to decide what you really want. At the same time, you say it's unnecessary to enter a covid certificate than everyone would have to be tested because those who have been vaccinated carry the infection and you're against testing at the same time. You have to decide what you really want, but in fact what you want is that it's clear to all of us here that any argument you use is just to make that argument go into your favor because you're full of contradictions, so you're saying I mean really stupid things from the session to the session when you're talking about these reports, but you really have to ask yourself if you're going to go to normal, you're going to have to take a test, are you for us to take a hand right now and say there's nothing going on, let's talk about those who are dying of cancer or we actually need to pay attention to this topic. I would warn you of something that a Slovenian philosopher Slavo Zizek said to read what he thinks of your political category. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90604	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Your time is over. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90605	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, a colleague insults parliamentarians who don't think otherwise. First of all, unlike you, we have made it clear and loud that we believe that all of them should be tested regardless of whether they are vaccinated or not, but we also made it clear that we are against testing children because, according to all scientific indicators, children have no or extremely mild symptoms. Children are also much less ill than older ones. ... Don't get in my word, please... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] /Intruder: Time/ [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90606	You're getting a warning because this was a replica. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90607	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Well, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea for a respected MP and a representative to make a joint statement for a pay phone maybe it would cheer the nation up like this and us in the assembly, it would be very happy, but here. Uh, I suggest that the respected MPs actually be her performances and expressions, here's the minister I believe will have so many of these to receive you for a little month to use your work in a real sector. Here is to be truly in one good obligation except for your left-wing and anti-Croatian not only expressions but activities. My, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90608	What sexism was in here without saying anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90609	We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90610	I'm raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, therefore, the representative clearly insults and demeans the MP, calls her anti-Croatian and yet speaks to her sexually, so I ask you to warn him, and he was not in the line at all, nor did he replicate anything she said about covid and the subject we are in today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90611	Okay, you get a warning, and a colleague has nothing to get a warning, that's his opinion. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90612	Al didn't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90613	Excuse me, excuse me, did you lift the Rules of Procedure? ... And there's no replica, so there's no replica. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You can't win a replica, you can't win a replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90614	No, she picked up the plate wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90615	Here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90616	And esteemed, in 238, esteemed MP Kekin, if you were to look at your steps, you should not say a single word because you are never in the subject except your own personal lies and insults. This and really sometimes I don't know which way I'd turn to you, but I always look with a lot of respect because we live in the same city, so here, let's have that consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90617	You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90618	Thank you. Article 238, please warn your representative not to insult your colleague, Peović, or your colleague Kekin with his inappropriate dictionary. Someone to call and insult that anti-Croatian I think you, too, the chairman, should understand the scales of that insult and warn the MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90619	Well we have plenty in Croatia anti-Croatian, it is no insult at all. This one we're going to move forward with the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90621	And I didn't answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90622	And if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Bacic, there's an answer to the replica of the lady.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90623	Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90624	Deur said he had a replica, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90625	Okay, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90626	Although it was far from a replica, I understand the confusion. So Bolshevism, anti-Croatianism, a little bit should work with the minister because I've never worked in the real sector, otherwise the ministry is a real sector, okay. Comrade Deur, it's clear that you think that working at the university is completely unnecessary, but watch a little bit of college work train you to read these laws maybe a little bit more carefully than someone else, and I had here as a basic idea to propose something very affirmative to HDZ, and encouraged people who work in health care, and about anti-Croatianism, bettervism, and I don't know what we might be able to talk about in the hallway, but I think we should really focus here on concrete things, and we're really in a difficult situation, and it would be good to have this situation somewhere together and we're working out. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90627	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable Agent Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90628	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry we didn't understand each other. 238, I feel sorry for the way you have instructed me, I just want you to have the experience that you have and that you implement that you can give it to others in quality so that others have one better item about it because your position on both the Homeland War and on Croatian defenders throughout all this time gives me the right as Croatian defenders and victims that I can rightly tell you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90629	Okay, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Mariana Petir is a respected representative, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90630	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Peovic, hurt Article 238, because she was disdaining parliamentary representatives but everyone else who didn't finish college by alluding that she who works at the university reads unlike some others by referring to a colleague, Deura, that he would not read for God's sake and that it was some advantage of her because she was in college someone else didn't. Well, others have graduated from colleges and PhDs, not wearing banners about it, learning to behave politely and treat MPs but also generally with the public in an appropriate way. College doesn't mean anything to you if you don't have a home education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90631	Okay. You're getting a warning and it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Branko Bačić, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I wanted to imply that Croatia has the most liberal measures. That's not true. We had the most liberal measures at some point, now we don't. For example, for example, the UK has more liberalism, Denmark has, Denmark has more liberality, which is why I have replicated to you because a colleague of the Grumoja just said that Covid's certificates have been lifted in Denmark, they have not been abolished. Denmark has abolished Covid's showdown in the majority of the public and real sector, but not all of it. You cannot enter the facilities in Denmark, the institutions of social care continue without Covid's confirmation, and even less can be entered in Denmark without Covid's confirmation. So, it didn't stop them you were nodding there with your head and something with it and something to comment on as but Denmark was split so it can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90633	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90634	I don't know where you saw that nodding head now, so we're just thinking we were against what my colleague Grmoy says. I mean, from the start, I don't know what he said to me that he'd get along with my buddy Grumpy, I don't really know. But it means liberal measures when you say Denmark and Sweden mean what the fissure is and the Great Britain, but we have to take what the fissure in those countries I think... We said, we told him that, I don't think... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90635	Please don't, don't communicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90636	...that was our reaction, I think we can explain it to him. We don't think we can compare those categories simply because we have a very low cleavage. But listen, we really can't say that we don't have liberal measures. And also here, you've often been praised by ministers Beroš in that spring wave as you reacted, but then we were really saving lives. You were saving lives, it was a really good reaction, and it was showing how influenced it was. lobbyist groups thing went the other way. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90637	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90638	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this morning when we were preparing for this debate we were actually expecting a lot, a lot more even than you would say we armed ourselves, and now we have so many unfired ammunition that I just don't know what to do with it. But joke aside. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to thank all health care professionals for everything they do for people not only who are ill with Covid but in total for the Croatian nation. I regret to make it clear to all Croatians and Croats that they are being vaccinated. Vaccination is the only measure that can put us in a better position. This is already the fourth debate on this same subject, but we have not yet succeeded in this intention. Today we heard one thesis that has now been placed on one side as the main thesis, and it came from the opposition that 2/3 of the majority have adopted some of the headquarters decisions then Croatia would have a 85 or 90% split. So what was the reason for the opposition not to accept what we voted on and bring it up with 102, 105, 110 votes to help split the nation. But you're always looking for an excuse more, you always move the wheel to, to something else, and that's basically, basically the problem we have. Here are many of the MPs, especially those who come from the county who have spoken to tourists about a problem that can create a problem for us in the time ahead, which is that Europe will, in addition to publishing maps, see how blue we are, red or anything else in those maps, insert and what kind of fissure is in the county that tourists expect. Competition is merciless and it will do everything possible for tourists not to come to Croatia but to go somewhere where this split is much, much, much greater. Why are we creating ourselves a problem where we could actually find a solution? I think that as Parliamentarians, we have this responsibility that we cannot wash away from the assembly and I agree with all those who have told for this speaker that they need to be vaccinated, but they only articulate it in their five-minute speech, they say that as a phrase, and then nothing happens afterwards. Honoring exceptions, let's not be negative right now, there are some. What we also saw here today at the Mosta Club is experts in epidemiology. These are people who could deal with the pandemic much worse than it is, which is covid-19. Well, you see, that's not good. It's the deception of people who see in us those who should be their solution, and here they bring out false things that simply wouldn't have a dog with butter licked, not a superfluous man accepted as something. We heard this morning as soon as it was, and the representatives of the Bridge matter in the morning, in the debate, is there some cameras there, then there's some publicity, so that's interesting to them. And then a great lie from one of these superiors by Mr. Dr. Bulj who says that here's most of the European countries have abolished the covid certificates, so what are the covid certificates for, they're absolutely irrelevant. Only the UK and no other EU member states have abolished the certificate. Why does someone have an urge other than to collect some cheap political point to make such lies and to tell such lies? Col. Rasdić is referring to some scientific article, Mrs. Rasdic. Kekin answered that, and I think it was both professional and overly, to some professional article on purpose, so he's a professional scientist, deliberately misleading people to, to tell them something that he knows is not true, but it sounds good. Now these and those kinds of thesis in this HS is too much, let's respect the the thesis that makes the waist, let's be there, have a consensus about it. That's the point of the story, and if I have time in the end I'll read you a song because I'm not an expert, I'm not an epidemiologist, but I'm a mere poet, so here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90639	A mere poet later. We now have a replica of the respected representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90640	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, read that song to me in the replica because it will certainly sum up everything that is ultimately the taste of all our debates today, we have not said anything new. These reports have actually become all the same, we have buried views of governments and the ruling majority, and of course it advocates all the measures that are balanced between health conservation and between the economy and jobs, and we also have some results there. And of course one part of the opposition can't say all of it, the whole opposition really builds its own policy on everything that's the opposite of not taking into account that it endangers both the health and the lives of people, and I can't imagine at all that God doesn't have to do, with a two-thirds majority of what it would look like, so it would completely paralyze all of these measures, but here I would like a song anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90641	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90642	Thank you very much, dear colleague Murganic. Of course, the serious theme at 8 o'clock this debate Đuro Đaković produced 4 combines or put together, the Roman made up one Never, the ceramics glued 100 squares of tiles, and we're still on the stuff we've been recycling for a full year and a half. It's just amazing how bad we really want ourselves, and here we have people who want us well, and then just to take what they want, we'd get a part of the problem right. The thought of me one whole day as a rock in a blistered shoe gave me to go to see Dr. Bulj or perhaps at Grmoja's now fighting my thoughts, yet I will choose Razdic about him as a scientist of stories, and if he gets busy, they don't get watched at Miletic's. .../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90643	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90644	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Ivanovic, you mentioned tourism and fissure and you rightly wondered, says why we create a problem where we don't have to have it and really, why do we create it where we don't have to have it? We know what the government has done to preserve jobs in catering and tourism. Here is also today to praise the tourist agency for continuing these measures to preserve jobs. When it comes to labour, we have a new online system for registering and importing workers. In a 100% higher number, employers responded to a call for the scholarship of students for tourist occupations, the amount of scholarships increased, but all of which is in vain because the new covid card will show both the number and percentage of the split, and unfortunately here we are the worst among our competitors in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90645	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90646	Yeah, well, the good finding is absolutely standing and I said something about it myself and the minister was talking about it, talking about it today, and as much as we want to blame the headquarters for some things which, perhaps on the one hand, is in the political arena of nature that the opposition will always object to what the position is doing. This is Croatia, there is no other Croatia, there is no Croatia without covid and Croatia with a covid or Croatia where there is at the head of the headquarters of Willi Beroš and some other Croatia, there are no two Croatians, one Croatia that is trying best here to deal with what, after all, the most victims in all of this were given to healthcare professionals. They're a metric, not us, our debates are sitting here waiting for us to talk for five minutes, but unfortunately we're not going to get on their hands either, that's not fair. And that's not good. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90647	Time. The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90648	Thank you. So I'm really listening to you guys code living in a parallel universe. You're saying what would be natural or what's natural. Naturally, it would be only natural for one who manages the pandemic, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bear responsibility for the results that have been devastating and who have put us on top of the saddest scales in the world by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. It would be natural not to transfer responsibility to others when you, or your government, ignored the profession for a year and all professional organizations when they told you that measures should be imposed on time. We from the opposition who told you the same thing and told you when the number of infected is increasing isn't enough to react at a time when they're full of hospitals than before. You weren't listening. So you kept saying that you beat the epidemic and you're going to beat it, And today we are the worst in the world [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And it's your responsibility, not your responsibility. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90649	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90650	Thank you very much. I think this government and this minister who sits here for eight hours is responsible and he knows he's responsible and he's dealing with it every day and he's rising up with it in the morning. I don't see where the problem is. The problem is exactly what I said at the beginning, and this is Mr. Bacic's extraordinary today, and I think it might be the footnote of this debate we had today. If we had made two-thirds of the decision on covid certificates, then the split in Croatia would have been over 80%. That's for me, I've been sitting here the whole time, I haven't been out of the assembly much, it's the scale of the debate that's been going on today. It is wrong and it will not bring any more splits in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90651	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90652	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First a technical part, so we can go back to who knows or doesn't know. When we made one conclusion that we would have these reports, then it was an opposition proposal to have it every month. Now imagine these discussions every month, so we'd already have 12 of them by now. This is the fourth one. So look at these lines and you say they were right again, and we didn't know. Maybe it'll be enough every six months when I hear all this. But here we have reached such a conclusion, we act responsiblely, we deliver all that that the opposition may have one dance here, where responsibility should then be sought. And when they called for a good debate today and everything else they still couldn't handle. You see what it comes up with in the end. Turns out we all knew everything 10 days after we had the first case, and that's almost 2 years in 20 days, I remember 25.2.2020. So we heard these experts, the national doctors from MOST, so that they would have already taught our colleague from Makarska what he could say because he said it all wrong. And no one knew anything. I remember myself as a local leader who really tried to tell people from the field to go home, we don't know what it is, we don't know. The firemen were working, everything was disinfected with what we had. No one knew anything. We introduced the passes very quickly. To prevent any contact at all from being kept in that ignorance and fear, even on the radios, some common sense is heard. And then I'll tell you some numbers to see what's going on in those three years let's say they're not exactly on the same date, but the way I did it. 20.3.2020. 88925 cases infect that day all over the world. The day of the dead 5399. Mostly China was carrying most of the infection back then, the Wuhan strain. 6.2.2021. we already have 633 thousand 611 daily infected and 17511 dead, 17000 to this number. And these last figures these days mean 28.1.3 and a half million per day and 12,000 let's say, unfortunately, the dead. Big numbers again. And we're saying it's all over, let's take it all down, all the measures, we don't need anything, and it's not that they're not effects. We have the effects of vaccination. Because if there were no vaccinations, what we have today 12 multiply 5 times 17, so we would know what happened to us. And that's the effect. As we have data on the number of vaccines and deaths that have been vaccinated with two doses and a booster and those that have not been vaccinated at all. It's big, 72% one and a half percent. All we had to do was listen. But what happened, we lost what we had in the beginning. And it all turned into a particular policy to go looking for the guilty and impose some responsibility on the guilty. What do we have from trying to put it all on someone's back? And we are running away from what the esteemed Infectologist Ivić said in Split that the young, unfortunately, forgot to tell the old people what was going on, that they had to be vaccinated and that they had to let them unfortunately know that what was happening to us was happening to us. And then we come to this debate where you find out very, very strange situations, that after we have a million and 644000 tested for these so-called so-called. Covid confirms that we were able to identify the 116311 infected who would walk the population. The National Doctor says at his moment when he's in the mood to let those free populations walk, we're in favour of freedom. What are we gonna test? We don't need a covid certificate. So we'll hear other things about what counterpart Ivanovic said about bringing everything in two-thirds, we'd all be vaccinated, all of us. You just wouldn't want anyone to stay unvaccinated anymore. So we found out that in some way we have a lot of things that we share, that simple politics and politics and what pre-election before parliamentary elections and today has the sole goal of fighting for these political points while the health system gives the greatest effort that these people really don't leave this world because they just haven't been vaccinated, that they haven't done what they're asked to do, and in the end, I'm trying to say to blame the individual, to the government for some political points, and in the end of all that, unfortunately... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90653	Replica respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90654	Dear colleague Boric you're talking about collecting political points, I'll remind you how, how you've been collecting political points in this pandemic. You collected them so that every time you estimated that it was politically luxuriant, you allowed exceptions to measures. You collected political points in a way that every time you estimated that you would be given political points, you declared the end of the pandemic and the great beginning of the tourist season. You did it also in a way that you refused opposition proposals to introduce measures in time because you said no, no, no need, etc., so that each time at the 11th month you would be hit by the same situation with a huge number of dead and full hospitals. You are Mr. Boric, your government has held Mr. Lauce until recently in the scientific advice of a man who today is an icon of the anti-vaxer movement. So where's your responsibility? To collect your Pokemons [[Intruder: Time.]] Your Politicals [[Intruder: Time.]] We're going? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90655	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90656	Thank you very much, dear fellow Members, we have not collected any political points that may be your feelings, reflections because we are simply acting in continuity and I have already said 100 times here that every government is responsible, i.e. commits. And we don't have the right to do anything, and if anyone proposes, it suggests a headquarters that the government accepts or doesn't accept and we go further. What we've always said is that we respect the profession and science and that these are the only things we all have to deal with. However, there are people who have found political space and this is also shown by this referendum initiative, and this opposition that has always seen something of its own. That's why they asked for reports like this, so they finally saw that it wasn't good enough. As for Zagreb and responsibility, you show it. Congratulations on the ongoing competitions in which counterpart Hajdaš Doncic managed to place all his staff in Zagreb Holding and eventually to choose all the respected ones in public tenders experts on the joy of all Zagrebers. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90657	Dear representative Katarina Peovic, the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90658	You said that you always followed science, and listen that you always followed science and what scientists and experts or health workers asked you to say. Indeed, they sought far more extensive measures, much more serious measures, and that is the difference between the first wave and all the other waves that were coming. And in the first wave, life was preserved, but after that under the pressure of the lobby, especially means lobbys that have worked very hard, and they've certainly been putting pressures like this on the restaurant lobby, and then you've given in. And you can't say that you've always listened to the profession, and besides, in public statements, you say that, we balance the meaning between the economy and the profession. You can't say you've always listened to your waist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90659	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90660	Thank you very much. We've all studied together, I say and worked and worked and tried and singled out 10 billion kunas to preserve how normal our lives are and that we can normally do our jobs and do our own daily needs, i.e. The functions we behave, etc., so no one can dispute that. Who we listened to or didn't listen to, I said, but that same opposition forgets what she was doing. When the cafes were closed, so who was looking for a bar opening? We've had a minor interpretation of the subject here. The opposition in all order of the party, it was a cry for it. What did you forget? My biggest problem is I can't forget what you've been doing. That's my biggest problem. And that's why I always remind you, and the minister is doing his job right from the start, has the support of the majority who supports his work as well as the work of headquarters, and we've also entered a political battle with those who don't understand certain things. We're glad that you have certain attitudes that are close to what he's doing and that makes headquarters, but there are always unequivocal messages that leave the impression that the opposition is a little bit different. He wants to, that's another thing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90661	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90662	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, here at almost 9 o'clock today, we listened to everything, looking for the culprit, suggesting that we should all be tested, so that we should not be tested, that we should have a lockdown and that we should not have it, it certainly wasn't easy to balance, preserve our fellow citizens' health, preserve our health system, and also preserve our jobs. That's what this government did and the headquarters did pretty good. Of course, all of this would not be possible without a health system, without our doctors, nurses and technicians whom we should thank most at this time. Of course, there is also that part of the healthless staff of that technical staff we call it in health care institutions that have given a great deal of pain. But the moral obligation of us MPs is to help with our example to prevent the spread of the disease, means to vaccinate, those who can't, for health reasons, be tested naturally because it's the only way we can see the end of this unfortunate pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90663	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90664	Thank you very much, colleague. I have nothing to add. I think I agree with everything that you said and a really health care system that just wears this on its back for two years. Probably when you look at us here and what we're saying and they're wondering they had all this in some way some sense when we see someone, there's some fight in practice, a life struggle and these stories here that especially come from some clubs that have found little space to grow in polls so fast, quickly fall not because they thought people wouldn't forget what they did very quickly. And we listen to these theories that you just can't listen to, that's all with a fig in your pocket like we're not against vaccination, we're not this, but don't do anything. Unfortunately, there are some, and that's not left without echoes. And now we get to some possible 70% if we catch as some of the most unfortunately vaccinated and it will follow us through the next year and through the tourist season and everything else. Unfortunately, a day - long number of people who are leaving because of irresponsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90665	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90666	Thank you. Your Honor, you said we lost the union we had at the beginning, and who's responsible for losing that union? You think the opposition is responsible, I ask you whether the opposition has put politics into the decisions of the headquarters, whether the opposition has allowed various exceptions to the measures, whether the opposition is guilty of such an example. Mrs. Devereaux. Dr. Markotic personally publicly violated the measures? I'm saying the opposition isn't to blame. We have come to this precisely because of the policy involved in the profession and which because of the politics of the ruling you in HDZ created the mistrust of citizens, inconsistency of headquarters and fear and mistrust. You are responsible for this low fissure, for you who rule and who fight this battle against the virus, you are responsible for this high mortality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90667	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90668	Thank you very much. My colleague Raukar, first of all, was the headquarters, started the pandemic, so he was the headquarters, you weren't at the beginnings here in HS, so there were elections, so you went in on the wings of the earthquake and everything you talked about here, but you walked in and now you started saying and giving lessons about who's guilty. I say, there was a commonity, and I know everything, and I remember sitting in the building of the INA and everything we went through at the beginnings, and then we saw who had confidence or was not in parliamentary elections, so in the second year of the pandemic we saw in the local elections too, you got a chance in the City of Zagreb, show what you know, don't raise the prices of municipal services, garbage and all the other, gas, etc. And there on that polygon, show me what you know. We're here at the state level and we're showing what we know, maybe it's not good for you, maybe you want to do it, but after people figure you out here in Zagreb, you'll probably have some problems in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90669	Next individual debate, respected representative Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90670	Thank you, esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Many of you mentioned health care professionals and thanked them here today, so it's time to talk a little bit about health care workers. It was March 2020 when everyone was at home, when they were watching Netflix and making bread from home leave, when the online classes were being mastered, and the streets were tragically empty and the public transport was not working, but the health staff went to work daily. I remember, I went every day, I remember this terrible time, we didn't know that much yet, I remember the fear and the pain, I remember the disinfection of the hands, I remember there weren't any masks and there weren't any equipment in the hospitals, I remember that we got protective suits that were only extra large and large, so we had tiny little ones tied it up with some elastic bandages that our technicians made up that we didn't like, I remember daily mails from ministers who included words like mobilization and work responsibilities, I remember coming home, showering right away, so I was just hugging our children and husband, I remember the anxiety that we all in the health system lived every minute, and I remember the support of the public, I remember when they were clapping at noon at 3 months, I remember that they were telling us that they were beside us that they were with us and that they appreciated what we were doing. There are other doctors here in the assembly, today I think there are none more with us, and I don't know which one of them is still for real, and not for a doctor's salary which is still something better than a constituency dish, really works in the health system, and I don't know when one of them was last on duty. I've been on duty relatively recently, so I'll tell you something about duty. There is nothing stressful, so stressful in political life that is comparable to the stress of duty, so there is nothing comparable to the extation of the whole body when the caller rings. I'm gonna jump for life on a ring of phone calls that I've been on duty with. There's nothing like it when the duty goes away, so the dead tired come home after 30 hours and you can't sleep because you've got patients going through your hands that night. And now imagine when that stress adds up... In which I've informed you that from tomorrow's decision on mobilization and work obligation, you're going to do a job you haven't met since college. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last 15 years. You're dealing with mental health or the eye, the last 10 very specific psychoanalytic psychotherapy of Freud... and that or the front segment of the eye, but overnight here you are as interns, pulmologists, infectologists in doing so there is no gratification, clapping is long gone, the hunt has never been a topic, the covid supplement is like a unicorn no one has ever seen him, many of my colleagues who have worked by covid departments have been fortunate to do different reckonings of overtime at the end end end end with less wages than when they work on their home department and in their home hospitals. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last fall we didn't, I couldn't make it to the flu vaccine, I was working at the KBC, I was on duty, I was vaccinated in a way that my friend's dad found me some residual vaccine in the fridge between mustard and mayonnaise. Then finally the vaccine came, but before us the heads of various HGKs, rectors and their wives and other respected friends of the ruling party were vaccinated. Then we finally got the vaccine, and then for a moment so around April 2021, we really thought that our torments had finally come to an end, that we had the vaccine, that we would no longer bury hospitals, that we would return to normal life and normal stress duty. Yeah, well, we're too soon to be happy. For the reason that I also cited to you in the club talk that we have been talking about all day, only a little more than half of the population split up, and the ruling Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Beros concluded that this is not their problem, and whose problem is it? Yeah, well, the problem is again and again the health care staff. Yes, more than 90% of doctors and doctors in Croatia were vaccinated against covid. Their calls for vaccination are not heard by anyone, although we hear about threats spoken at the Atnivacxer protests, we read threats on Facebook, and yet we see threats where doctors and doctors walk on the streets and threaten them. We've been watching exhausted doctors on TV for a year now, listening to them come out of duty sinks, frustrated, helpless, literally begging people to split. And when this poor health care system of ours becomes even more miserable because this little good people we have left running out to some countries where they are valued, where they are adequately paid and treated should be remembered why it is. We should be reminded of the speed and direction we have come from that applause at the beginning of the story to the threats to doctors who can do anything else to fit the sentence. I'm begging you to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90671	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90672	Thank you. This quarterly report on the Covida-19 epidemic, the measures taken, we welcome the consequences with a devastating, frightening and painful fact that after the deaths of millions of people in the world, we are the first. That terrible number would be even higher if the calculation took into account the latest census of our creepy first place would be even tighter. We're close to 14,000 dead, more than two times the number of civilians killed in the Homeland War, and unfortunately we're close to the total number of dead defenders, civilians and missing in the war in two years of an epidemic, the war lasted four years. When it comes to numbers and statistics, it is often forgotten that each number is one man. The man who died most often alone, without being able to keep his loved ones close to him. Each of those numbers is one family that's lost its loved ones. The scariest thing is, it didn't have to be like that. It didn't have to be like that. We didn't have to lose an entire city like Knin, we didn't have to lose our grandparents, grandparents, mothers, sisters without children. That could have been prevented. The scientists gave us the vaccine. Only real weapons in the fight against this horror. In Croatia, however, vaccination is too low to save lives. The responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its headquarters is unquestionable because it is not enough just to obtain a vaccine, not enough, it is necessary to inform citizens, it is necessary to be consistent and convincing to stick to its own measures and to be an example to the public. Yes, there is also a need to fight conspiracy theories, various irresponsible populist statements, actions, in short it is necessary to do everything possible to achieve a fissure that would ensure significantly lower mortality, reduce hospital pressure, enable normal medical care for other diseases, and that would finally enable us to return to the old normal. The biggest problem is the inconclusiveness of headquarters and leadership in this battle with the virus. So again, I don't know which way to benefit the health of all citizens and citizens of Croatia we call on the members of this headquarters to resign and thus liberate places for new experts who can regain confidence in their independence about politics and their condensity and thus give new momentum in the fight against this evil. Some citizens are afraid, doubtful, lost in a sea of information, those citizens who have not been vaccinated. It is precisely those citizens who need special attention. Public campaigns should be stepped up to include all social forces. First of all, though, we need to restore trust in the headquarters that this system has lost. I do not call you to resign for political reasons, no, I call you to resign for the benefit of health, and consequently for the benefit of the state. You obviously won't be able to increase the cleavage because you, your maximum is 56%. Take your resignations. Allow new forces to deal with all problems. It will be your greatest contribution at this point. I am using this opportunity to once again invite all of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have not been vaccinated to think, to inform themselves in scientific sources, to listen to the daily calls and cries of our doctors and medical staff, to resist conspiracy theories that so easily lead to a false lead. I invite all of you finally to be vaccinated. Data from all countries say vaccination protects against fatal outcomes and significantly reduces viral transmission. If we reach 90 percent of the cleavage, we will be able to return to the old normal that we have forgotten a little bit. We will bring back to our children a normal childhood, we will bring back to young people socializing and studying under normal conditions, we will protect all vulnerable groups together, we will give older citizens a safer and quieter age. We need broad social solidarity and I hope to unite in the fight against the virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90673	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90674	Thank you, Vice President. Minister Berosch, it's too obvious that you have made a personal appointment in all of this. I don't understand what you're bragging about, I suppose you're still thinking about it, but I don't understand how you managed to rise above all those questions that I can't imagine what my conscience would do. First of all, you've made an appointment as a doctor. You've made an appointment as the most responsible doctor in this country, as the most responsible for the catastrophic management of the coronary crisis. You've made an appointment as the most responsible person for the entire health system. You've made an appointment according to completely excruciating colleagues of doctors, nurses, health workers, you've scheduled Minister Beroš for a number of patients who because of all the chaos that has taken place together, it's led to these terrible numbers of the dead. So how is it possible for you to make fun of yourself like this, these aren't creepy numbers to you? Ministers in world terms are creepy numbers, you know that. You've made an appointment as a politician, and all this appointment wouldn't have been possible if you hadn't made an appointment as a man first. What? What? Is that humor? [[Intruder: Please do not debate with the Minister, the Honorable Representative.]] So did I say you created the virus? Here's all the truth you, of course, are holding us first all who are critics with complete ignorers, completely ignorants with whom it's pointless and what we're talking about. First of all, before this horror, you were an intelligent decent man. You were an expert, esteemed doctor. You were all in that heroic phase of headquarters first of all because of you, you were the star of the world. Yes, you do. And since you managed to do that in the second wave, it was such a terrible deal to agree to political concessions and bring it back to that time was a creepy number. And not only did you go to these concessions to work, but you're a little bit more, you were still waiting for them to be local HDZ organizations to make their choice, and then it went to that closing too late. Everyone, already the caterers said it was the 20th. Remember? The first major long debate on this topic was at the beginning of the 12th month of the 20th year on work, the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia on special circumstances caused by the coronary virus. If you had resigned then it would have been a gesture that would've raised all these out-of-work workers, they'd have said that, that's our doctor and he said politics no, stop, so can't be done. And your second heir would then have full power and believe that Bozinović would not push her like you do. Minister Maric would not have gotten rid of it. You wouldn't dare even have the Prime Minister put things like this before you that led us to all of this. You know it all. It would allow us to really deal with this terrible crisis that will remain called your name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90675	You're done. You can go to your place. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90676	I believe that after such a dramatic introduction and insult here the present minister is not only as an expert but as a person because he said he had failed as a man. I think that these are inappropriate words in the debate, and I didn't quite notice that he was paying attention in his speech, in his debate on the subject, which is today's report, not about the qualities of ministers who eventually received great trust and preferential votes in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90677	It's a matter of personal culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90678	Thank you, Chairman. I have a hundred regrets to our minister, however, that from one political option which calls for some tolerance, courtesy, this or that of the person who got it if I'm not cheating on some kind of apartment as a member of the Union of Communists in '89. I don't think it's appropriate. We don't need drama here. The Parliament isn't a theater, and according to this individual debate, it turns out to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90679	Here's Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90680	238th Insulting Parliamentarians, and I dare say one whole profession. It cannot be called a parliamentary representative because of the way he stands out, it cannot be taken away from him the right to speak his mind and what he feels is necessary on this subject because he is an actor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90681	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. I'd like to start by saying today's numbers, and they're really dramatic indicators. 13186 new cases of infection, including 2108 patients on hospital treatment, of which 194 patients were respirator and 42 people died. I'm sorry that through our discussions, but also through public discussions, we really only see this as numbers, as if there are no people hiding behind these numbers, people's human fates, and we're just beginning to approach them with due attention when among those who are sick, among those who are on the respirator or, unfortunately, among those who have died, someone we know finds us, someone we know. So I think it's important in all our debates to include the thinking of the profession, and here we have doctors who have talked about their own experiences and who I think are extremely valuable, who have witnessed to us what they are dealing with and what difficulties they are facing, and all because of what we don't really want to use our freedom and the right to choose. And our right to choose is to be vaccinated or tested. With one measure and another, we can prevent the spread of the infection. And I see no reason why this freedom and that choice would not be used to preserve not only their health but the health of others. With thanks, of course, to the medical staff and to all the workers who do the superhuman work that is in their power, I must say that the personal responsibility of all of us would lead to the release of this health system and make it more accessible to those who need the help most. And one of the biggest public health problems in Croatia is the issue of the increase in the number of cancer patients, and in order to reach this problem, we certainly need prevention, preventive checks, stronger diagnostics, regular treatments and treatment, which certainly cannot be expressed in this situation where we are in this situation when our entire system is focused on fighting the pandemic. The accusations that we could hear about the measures that the headquarters is proposing, bringing and implementing I think they have no place because it has been shown and when we compare ourselves with other Member States that our measures have been quite flexible, that it has been taken care of all sectors, that it has been invested in saving jobs 18 billion kunas to save 700,000 jobs is not a small cost, that it has been trying as new information has come to have one balanced approach and has not gone to lockdown what some other countries have done, although we have also listened to calls here to go in this direction, I think that the headquarters well assessed that these measures leave them flexible, to allow the economy to function, too, to allow us, in a kind of freedom that lives in a new way, if I can thus say how much we can preserve the psychophysical state of citizens. I also commend the initiative that went by experts, headquarters and government towards the European Commission to include rapid antigen testing in an instrument that will be recognised with PCR testing and overcoming as evidence of Covid’s certification. It seems to me that other countries are also beginning to recognize it now as one of the good instruments, and I hope that we will collect enough support there because we know in which way it is decided at European level, that everything has to be lobbyed, that everyone needs to be supported, but such an approach seems to allow for greater flow of the entire system and that it would allow us one simpler and, if I can say so, more normal functioning. The situation needs to be taken seriously and adhered to measures that really in Croatia are flexible in relation to the rest of Europe, and this shows that the monitoring of the situation could be recognized at a given moment, which is necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90683	The Republic has a respected representative, Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90684	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will agree with you, especially this part of the balance between measures and the economy, and so our economy was weak and at this point in the pandemic, the epidemic was severe. I also agree with your finding that the initiative of rapid antigen tests certainly helped. We had this liberal approach, however, remains a problematic number of unvaccinated. I personally believe that the public campaign carried out by the Ministry of Health was good, public figures were involved, so there was a lot of work. How is your view of what to do, strengthen a public campaign perhaps for vaccination to achieve some desired percentage of vaccinated persons? There are various anti-vaxers, so some conspiracy theories. All this, of course, leads to the great delusion of our fellow citizens who are in doubt.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90685	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90686	Thank you very much. Thank you, Representative Blažević, for this replica. It's hard to say what else to do because I think the headquarters ran with all the principles and parameters that he had at his disposal. So, offering what he thinks is the best option, and at that attitude are doctors and professions where they have called for vaccination but still leaving the freedom that this vaccination is not a mandatory instrument, but that it is a matter of selecting each individual stressing how useful it can be and leaving a choice that those who decide not to be vaccinated can be tested. So that's why I'm saying that the measures are not only when we talk about the economy and in general about the approach of public gathering, that we didn't have strict closures when the whole neighborhood had one, but also in the sense that it really left that flexibility of choice and freedom for everyone to choose what they wanted. And of course vaccination is something [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which can help people protect themselves. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90687	The next one will be spoke by respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90688	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, we reiterate ourselves on these reports that are given within those deadlines that are given regardless of how the assembly has decided. But I'm going to repeat some things, and I'm just going to repeat that we had a headquarters in which on February 24, 2020, it was stated that masks are not necessary and that we're not being defended by this pandemic, and I'm going to repeat one of the dates that is crucial. Today we start in February 2022, 26 May 2020, the prime minister said his government won the pandemic. And that is, so much, about who he says, to whom he serves and of course it was at that time, in the pre-election period, was in the conditions of the pandemic or the beginning of the pandemic in Croatia, but I guess we all thought it would go away, and some were convinced that it had already been defeated. The fact is, and I warned before the local elections that some things have to be done by headquarters, not to leave to local leaders because the same time of election is going, and nobody wants to divulge stricter measures because we're going to bad, we're going to bad, it's going to reflect badly on local elections. And we had what we had, we had the awakening, the pandemic awakening, and it was normal, it was even me thinking and predictable at that time. However, I do not know what we can boast, in 86 pages, of this report there is no site in which at least once the county headquarters is not mentioned, County School of Public Health, County Home of Health, so who is he who is engaged in the fight against this pandemic. It's in the report on who's doing it. And when we talk about fissure and fear of tourism, then it's only the Primorje-Gorski County that's green. This means that the debates of some colleagues, we are already afraid of the resignation of the tourist season due to non-vaccination, but in those counties where you express concern about poor fissure are ruled by your mayors, your mayors. You have the highest mayor, you are proud of it, so you have the power in Croatia, you have the parliamentary majority, so talk to your mayors, start implementing these measures. This turns out that the Primorje-Gorski County, which has no HDZ mayor, is the only one who is successful because it implements certain things, but also because it has both professional and professional people, not politically but by experience and ability, and among them there are also members who are members of the ruling party to understand each other, it is not a matter of unity. When we talk about joint decisions, it's about joint responsibility. If the decisions of your responsibility are only yours, of course and glory, but I see we've been celebrated in these last 2 years, for many things we've celebrated, so we don't have results, so in the report itself you don't have results by county, you have mentioned them, a little Slavonic, a little bit of conjugal, a state in county hospitals etc. And imagine where things work there we read in health reform we mean to centralize health care and take away our public health care office, so where you don't work to apologize, take whatever you want, and where it works, don't touch it, don't touch it. This debate came down to fear, and I see that the addition to the agenda, on the one hand, of the Bridge to pass the referendum, not to pass it, and on the other hand to the referendum, to pass the referendum. It's two fears, and we've been hearing about it for 10, 10 hours through a variety of crackdowns on who's a commie, who's not a commie, and there's only one thing we'd figure out. Children are at least premium insurance companies who are least psychologically vulnerable in terms of both pandemics and anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90689	Thank you very much. Let's go to the final presentation of clubs, first of all SDP's Club of Representatives, will speak to the respected representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90690	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, Honorable Minister, if we tell you what we say every time and confess it is that you are really there from the beginning to the end of the debate and so we should all have ministers and I believe as a colleague that it is not easy for you, that you are really trying to deal with this pandemic, but the mistakes were, you know, and alone, admit them all together and don't repeat them. I told you already that because of these unconsistent decisions, the atmosphere of our citizens' mistrust in the institutions has been created, unfortunately and in the profession, we have severe consequences of the pandemic, and even after today's debate, it turns out that some of them are going through the woods by some road, some of these colleagues in the middle of their own path, so isn't the common goal of getting us out of this terrible situation really as soon as possible, and the consequence of all this is too many dead and too many people who are sick. Here I'm going to underline a few important things that I'm hoping you'll really give answers to. I also spoke in the previous report and today on behalf of the club, I repeat, so we haven't seen the vaccination campaign plan, who is its holder, headquarters, government, HZZ or someone fourth, and who is directly responsible for too few vaccines? The fact is that it's a ruling set and you can't accuse us of it, especially from the opposition in this part that we're really trying really hard to get as many splits as possible and get out of the pandemic. Furthermore, no research has been done on the reasons for not being vaccinated and why people do not want to be vaccinated. You have to do this, and if it's not too late, then at least that's how people are motivated and that's how to increase the number of people vaccinated, but I'm still stressing you admit the mistakes, apologize for that, change the people who made the mistakes, and then we might possibly be able to move forward. How do you plan to motivate citizens from the worst-vaccinated counties in southern Croatia who depend on tourism? So we're coming up with a tourist season. Your colleagues in your ruling options spoke of it. Then it means we really have a problem with that. You nodded to me that there were records from the headquarters session and the scientific advice I said. According to what I know, there's no record. Well, then I'm going to ask a representative for an answer, and I'm just curious what I'm going to get for the answer. Next, you nodded too when I told you how you were going to show how infected you really are because you have people who are also being tested with a bat with the PSR. That's also what I'm going to ask for information, and I'm asking you to respond in time. Next, I've told you how much we're in the health care system we're dealing with, how much we're dealing with. Our citizens have no idea about it at all, and you as Minister unfortunately didn't fit enough behind your health care professionals, publicly admit how much it is, and it turns out that you actually call them many for trouble. So please do this and in basic communication I have told you to receive colleagues primarily from family medicine for a conversation and solve everything that exists as obvious problems. For special awards to healthcare professionals, the problem is that the reward continues not to be paid to everyone but only where the covid department writes, and you forgot about the primary health care staff. The item I asked for on the previous report that more work is being done on the usefulness of vaccination in health institutions here you have indeed stated in the 1126 education report. You mention citizen counselling, but there's still not enough 8,000 counselling, 70% of the advised vaccine, so let's give you some additional guidance to increase those counselling sites. It'll obviously be useful. Put the strategy against omicron on paper and accurately state what your ways and ways are that you will clearly explain to the citizens and actually to all of us that you have imagined how to do this as soon as possible. It's over. A message to our fellow citizens. So, where there's a greater fissure there's a large number of infected now in omicron, but there's less hospitalization and difficult clinical images we've seen with the delta. It's our duty to talk about it, and we, especially the medics, speak heartily about it, so that's the only way we're going to get out of the pandemic. Please don't make mistakes. I was shocked to see again today the new affair of Vinko Kujundzic Kuspis again, so he still got some five-and-a-half million kunas. I'm asking you to explain in public that such things don't happen anymore. We've had enough of the affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90691	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček will finally speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So then, on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90692	Here's to the end, so I'd just like to specify what we've come up with as a proposal. So I did a little bit of commenting with the minister on what it would really be, and the answer that we got is that we should create a professional lab, so I would just say a little bit about what that would mean, and I think actually how much it's a complex issue that we don't even need to solve at this point in time so that every workplace is made of a professional lab. Why? It's a procedure really for categorizing some job for a dual-term internship, a certified job internship. But this situation where we are is indeed a very similar situation to the war situation. So the pandemic is an extraordinary opportunity, and there are extraordinary circumstances in place. So we have more dead than, in the war of the '90s. We have more dead last year than any other year since World War II. So the situation is really justified, so that there is no lobbying. And I'll tell you ministers what it looked like in the '90s. Here's the thing. So, of course, it wasn't a professional elaborate, but the dual-term internship was written in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on the basis of a certificate issued by the Ministry of Defence. So, according to this, if we take into account this in the fight against the SARS covid virus, the ministry could issue certificates during the duration of the crisis caused by the virus to healthcare professionals in respiratory centres as well as all healthcare system workers who are intensively involved in the fight against the coronary virus for the purpose of facilitating dual-term internships. So as the certificates were then issued, it seems to us that it would be justified in some way to skip that design of the lab. Because I think if we take into account that someone's really starting to build a lab right now, the labs are tied to specific jobs. So we should analyze every place of work whether it's subject to those criteria. But this isn't the case. So this is real and what you've answered in response to some temporary situation in the same way that the war is temporary. Yeah? These aren't jobs that hopefully wouldn't always be good. So here we have a real excuse to sort it out in an extraordinary way, and I will repeat once again countless times they have approached us in all possible situations especially nurses, nurses who are really in difficult working conditions, as well as doctors. When I was vaccinate on Velesim, then the doctor came to me and told me that here it doesn't just mean that they're working with this faithful supplement that really isn't enough. But she told me she's working overtime, and everyone's working on that Velesim without getting paid because they're working more than allowed overtime. You can't be paid for something that's not legally allowed. And that they actually do more all the time than they can under some kind of labour law. So people are really out of power and when they say they're out of power, I don't know a few months ago, then you can think about what they're in right now. It's true, I think the situation is such that I no longer think there's any exaggeration or sense of talking about it, constantly repeating that, that they're, at the end of the power and that they're actually in that... stage because I really think these people are putting up with some, some guy I mean some type of pressure that can't be compared to anything that will, hopefully, and it'll end quickly, but we can't compare it to anything we've had except say it to war conditions and that's why this benefitous job internship should be brought in the way that it does. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we're going to pass on to the unions what you said, but ultimately it's your decision, however you turn now the unions behind this or not in extremes, in fact it remains on HDZ and this government to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90693	Finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative Marijana Puljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90694	I thank the chairman. Here again for, finally, to repeat something that is obviously not repeated enough in the public or those who repeat it are not listening to them, which is that vaccination is the greatest achievement in the history of medicine that has saved the lives of millions of people throughout history. We usually always trust our doctors, so when we don't know the stomach, when we cut ourselves somewhere, when we don't know the kidney stone, the tooth, or so on, we go to the doctor and listen to his or their recommendations. However, here doctors are persistent here all the time this 2nd year, tirelessly calling for vaccination, and people don't listen because here they are, either suddenly becoming vaccine experts or I don't know what the problem is, so suddenly they stopped listening to their doctors. You have this dramatic here we keep mentioning Dr. Ivo Ivić of Split, who has been performing dramatically recently, says that a river of severely ill old people who have not been vaccinated passes through the hospital and it is unfortunate that these are the old people, those who regularly vaccinated their children 40 years ago, their children did not return the favor and did not vaccinate their parents. So here's the call for children, children, to vaccinate your parents. It is therefore defeating the fact that those who manage this crisis have failed to convince our citizens to split up enough that we do not have this many terrible numbers of the dead. The eighth country in the world by the number of deaths per million, 8 of 195, 4 in the EU, so 4 out of 28 countries per million people died. It's a terrible, terrible data and it's really your legacy of the Minister, it's the legacy of this government. When someone talks about the effects of these measures, it's enough just to say this sentence and there's no more. During today's debate, ministers tweeted something about mortality, I read here earlier on in the media, so you've published some tweets in style we've got low fissure, we've got an older population, so the numbers of these dead are kind of normal, they're expected to eat. It's actually terrible, because in some way you justify yourself, you don't think at all about responsibility, so who's responsible for this low cleavage, who's responsible for more dead than in the Homeland War. I will mention one more thing, last time in the last report I mentioned the same about one consequence of this covid crisis that actually acts on the mental health of citizens, one terrible data, psychological health is particularly endangered children, and it is a terrible fact that from Prevlaka to Zagreb you do not have a hospital bed where you could lie children who need help from psychiatrists. So here's what I can talk about in person. I know the data of children who have been lying here lately, so I would say illegally in adult wards, from Prevlaka to Zagreb there are no beds for children and for adolescents who need help from psychiatrists. That's what I was talking about earlier, I said I'd send you a parliamentary question, and in the meantime I talked to the hospital director, but here's no minister, but I'm asking him to pay attention and solve this 20-year-old problem, 20 years old. They warn experts about the problem, experts from Zagreb, from Osijek who then eventually receive these children from this area because they have nowhere else to place them. So here's this pandemic that took us more dead than Homeland work, and the HDZ government in the last 30 years. Almost a million people were taken from Croatia, so a million people left Croatia. The only conclusion we can after all draw from the best demographic measure is to move HDZ out of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90695	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Karas. 10 hours of debate, nothing new has been heard, and this is before us in fact a report on government activities, the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Republic of Croatia, state bodies, units of regional and regional self-government and legal persons with public powers faced with difficulties on 4th and early 5th waves, and the negative effects of new variants of the Delta and Omicron coronarys for the period from 1 September to 31st December. The report that we have before us included in the health care, talks about the role of eu digital confirmation, about vaccination, especially the booster dose that started right in this period, the reporting period for a series of parameters to be followed by these measures that have been taken. We've received information about the education we've been conducting, let's say the usefulness of the vaccination, the work of HZZO, and the price we pay for this unfortunate virus. The report includes the effects of the implementation of the measures in the part-round of the work of the MUP through the headquarters of civil protection, so Mr Karas would kindly ask that all civil protection system employees, in my own personal, but also on behalf of my colleagues from the club, present a thank-you note for everything they have done and what they are doing today, are also transporting all of us in health and social care and in a number of other activities. The report also includes a part relating to economic measures, the report covers everything that has been done through the Ministry of Labour that has been closely monitoring the entire development of the situation and has responded in good time to everything that can be done in order to survive in Croatia. And the Ministry of Culture in the report that we're reading has made a significant contribution to normalising some kind of a word of the kind of thing that people enjoy, and all of this is actually wanting to keep us mentally as it should be. In the report, the Ministry of Education has shown everything that has been done with the goal of the children going on to school, so that children go not online teaching but to be face to face, is it certainly best for the mental health of children. There's been a lot of effort. What is also important to mention from this report is that the Ministry of Tourism started working in time, that the Ministry of Tourism is now working on preparing the next tourist season, but we must remember that it depends on us all what our tourist season will be and how the state budget will eventually be charged. It is important for our economic branch, and we should all make a contribution to actually show that we want good for all those people living in the Republic of Croatia. Since it is an extremely large report, that all segments are covered, that the analyses have shown good work not only of headquarters but of the entire Governments of the Republic of Croatia, is it actually inter-resorial cooperation, the HDZ Club will support this report because it is actually a demonstration of full work and approach as it is in crisis situations and should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90697	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Erik Fabianic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90698	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Here's my predecessor speaking on behalf of the club and saying there was nothing new, unfortunately. In any case, I join the congratulations that are related to the effort not only of the medical staff but also of the members of civil protection, so I will now appeal for this speaker for the fourth time for one thing that I have said even at the inaugural speech, so in voting on the confidence of the government at the end of my speech, and in this year and a half of my term, I have had the opportunity to say it twice, and this is what I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally resolve the material rights of the mobilised members of civil protection, because those who are professionals are covered by the collective contract of the MUP, and then at least when we praise these really great efforts are made to 180 kuna, and if you are accidentally mobilised or voluntaryly registered, this is still your daily diary of 150 kuna, so let's be regulated by the government regulation of the government, so let's at least when we have this really great effort, and if all of all our medical staff are dedicated to civil protection, which has great effort, which is not only in terms and in Croatia, and in terms of big scales, and in terms, and in terms of Croatia. That's enough government regulation, that's me, that's me, that's the fourth time I've mentioned it, or that I'm writing amendments to the law, you know how it's gonna end, not at all. This one, and I'm going to use this opportunity to invite the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to split. Why? Because if they vaccinate, they'll most likely get this latest strain, but most likely they'll avoid hospital treatment, and if there's already a hospital treatment, there won't be any deaths at least in large. At that moment in Croatia, we will not have one bus of the dead a day that has already been happening to us for days, weeks, months. And when we talk about children, yes, children must be protected, children have traumas like our children had when we were in the Homeland War. My daughter was born in '91. That's what I said. But the fact is that... Unfortunately, and it's the easiest way to cure trauma in children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was gonna start at the end of my last debate, that's a fact. So, if you're looking at the trauma from the car crash, the insurance companies for the trauma you're experiencing, the psychological trauma experienced by a child because of the suffering fear is extremely small in relation to the trauma and damage you get as an adult. Sad or true. But I don't like cheap demagogues when we call on children to achieve some of their crazy political goals, no matter where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90699	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we move to the next point - Final draft law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 201. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, as well as by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy Dragan Jelic. Here you go. Please, we can keep it down a little bit!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90704	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. First of all, at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament of 12 November 2021, I remind you that the proposal for a law supplementing the central insurance register was adopted and now you have before you the text of the final bill, which is identical to the adopted proposal. It is important to point out that the Central Insurance Register of REGOS is an institution that deals with the management and maintenance of the database of contributions for compulsory pension insurance insurance insurance insurance by selecting and changing the compulsory pension fund, registering the contributions paid, and collecting and controlling data by insurance insurance companies for compulsory pension insurance. The REGOS Act provides for the powers and tasks of the REGOS section, which include, among other things, the connection of data on accounting contributions for pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, and the contribution to pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity with data on corresponding payments. Employers of second-income payers, i.e. the bonds submit a report on receipts, income tax and tax, as well as contributions to compulsory insurance, i.e. the shortened JOPPD forms on which it demonstrates the contribution obligations for pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity of the first pension pillar, aggregated for all workers or recipients of the second income. The insurance company. The contribution shall be paid to the personal identification number, the OIB of the obligor in total for all REGOS insurance providers of the JOPPD form shall be linked to the payment of contributions provided that the data on the type of contribution of the OIB of the obligor and the tags of the report on the payment of the identical data shown in the JOPPD form. After that, the contributions paid shall be allocated to insurance undertakings. Officials often make mistakes in filling out payment orders by entering the wrong pattern code or by paying one payment of the debt shown in multiple JOPPD forms. As a result, the payment of contributions for the first pension column shall be recorded as unrelated. In order to connect unrelated JOPPD forms to the payment of bonds, e-taxes are required to submit a request for the connection of unrelated JOPPD forms. However, one part of the debtors do not do so, and payments cannot be linked to patterns and distributed by insurance companies. It is important to stress that from the introduction of a pooled data collection system through the JOPPD form from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021, a total of around 887 million kunas of unrelated first pillar contributions were recorded, i.e. 0.54% of the total contributions for the first pillar of pension insurance resulting from the incorrect filling of the form by the payer. The relevant REGOS Act regulates the integration of pension insurance contributions by means of an individual capitalised savings rate with JPYs under official duty without the consent of the payer from 1 July 2018 but not by linking the payment of pension insurance contributions with the foundation of generational solidarity of the first pillar. Unconnected payments of the contribution of the second pillar of pension insurance on 31. December 2021 amounts to around 352 million kuna, representing 0.37% of the total contributions of the second pillar. A more precise definition of the time-limit and data-connection method and the recording of the reporting of related data and the schedule of unrelated payments for the second pillar without the consent of the payer shall be governed by the Regulation on the connection of the contribution data for compulsory pension insurance. As regards the adoption of this law, it was necessary to ensure technical preconditions and to comply with the tax administration of the Ministry of Finance and the Regulation amending and supplementing the Income Tax Regulation prescribed a connection under the official duty of all notifications under its jurisdiction with effect from 1 January 2022. Therefore, this amendment to the law will coordinate the conduct of the REGOS and the Tax Administration in linking public payments, create a legal framework to address the problem of unrelated contributions for the first pillar of pension insurance without the consent of the payer and to level the rules for the connection of unrelated contributions to the first and second pension pillars. I would like to point out that the adoption of this law does not affect the exercise of the right of the insurance undertaking but only relieves the payment obligations of the additional administrative transactions for the settlement of unrelated payments. I thank you for your attention, and I urge you to adopt this Final Bill that will further improve the process of connecting the payment of public fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90705	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90706	Good afternoon, actually. Good evening. I'd like to ask you a question I asked you on the Labour Committee, and for the sake of the Croatian public. I'm going to do a little more about it in my individual debate, and no matter what it is about something that's quite formal, and what our board members said was that something that we might have done faster in that procedure, I would only ask you to answer one question. Do you think counting insurance numbers as the number of employees is okay? Do you think that's correct?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90707	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90708	Dear Parliamentarian Peovic, that you have already asked this question, and I think it's okay, although we know there are some 10-15 000 who are contributing on some other terms, but I think it's a very, very small number, given the number of insurance companies that are now here almost a million and 600 at this point, so it's the best way for me to do it every day with HZM we get al literally at the daily level how many people have entered the system, how much difference has come out, how much difference given the previous years, so other than those minor anomalies, but who still pay something into the pension system and all of them, wouldn't they, not in the HZMO system, I think that this number is fair and that it's good to look at it in the context of particularly long-term follow-up plus minus. Is watching in 2019 and 2022 the same way that that little difference doesn't mean much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90709	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90710	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State before us is the final draft of the law, and in the first reading a high consensus has been reached on the vote of the law, so we expect this law to come into force quickly. You said that the technical preconditions in terms of the application of REGOS and the IRS were secured and that what remains is the Regulation on the connection of data with contributions to compulsory pension insurance that should be passed by your ministry and then the law could indeed and could be implemented. At what stage is it and when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90711	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90712	Well, the rulebook is already in the draft phase, so it's not as complicated as it is because we have a rule for the second column so that it will be passed even before the legal provision that is written in the law and after that we will be able to connect the first pillar so that our insurance companies no longer have to fill out any documents via e-tax or other systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90713	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90714	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear secretary of state, we have recently had the opportunity to read in the media that we have more than 209.000 health insurance than residents and that we have more voters than adult citizens. Here we have a pension system that we are now repairing and connecting unrelated payments for the first pension column in order to make it possible to unconnect unconnected payments because almost 84 million kunas of unrelated payments have been recorded. As far as it's possible, even in this pension system, we have more insurance on the basis of these unrelated payments, which can actually lead to the wrong statistics and the total number of insurance companies, the real number.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90715	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90716	Dear Parliamentarians, thank you very much for asking. Well, as I said in the opening statement, this harmonisation doesn't affect the number of insurance companies or disrupts anything. So those insurance companies to whom their employer or anyone has paid their first pillar in solidarity means as a solid payment for retirement he will continue to have all the rights to his pensions as before, but that money will not even be linked to some of his accounts within the system of risks of the system budget and we are simply solving this and in some way arithmetical or budgetary errors so means these unrelated funds mean exactly where he stands, but he has absolutely no connection with the number of insurance companies and does not affect any rights of future insurance or future pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90717	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90718	Thank you very much. The esteemed State Secretary therefore connects these payments or unrelated payments under official duty to the bonds, i.e. employers and also the state administration. Now I've got some two things I'm going to say practical questions just a little bit here for the public. Can an employer payer correct the error entered in the IOPPD form himself, for example? by means of an e-tax system, and does the non-connection of the first pillar’s payment, which we are talking about today, for the pensions of the person concerned, or what is the fact of which the unconnected payment was recorded?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90719	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90720	Dear Parliamentarians, thank you for asking. The answer to the second part of the question means, regardless of whether the payment is unrelated and if for some reason it is unrelated in the future, we see that there are always smaller unrelated payments in the second pillar that does not affect the status of the insurance company. So he's gonna get that pension he earned with his work and his payments in the first and second pillars to the full. So that money just doesn't get allocated in some way to his account, but it's in the reserve or some other state budget positions, and since in this law within 6 months, it means that if they don't connect payments within 6 months then there's an automatic connection of payments. So if an employer or anyone sees that he accidentally made a mistake in the OIB or something, within the last six months, he can e-tax himself into the correct numbers and connect those payments to the same extent he could have done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90721	Thank you very much. You can return to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90722	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Central Insurance Register Act. The objective of this law amending only 4 articles is to prescribe powers for REGOS to connect unrelated payments of the contribution of the first pension column without the consent of the payer of contributions as already prescribed for the connection of unrelated payments of the contribution of the second pension pillar. Now I'm going to explain a little bit what that really means. So all of us, or our employers, and all those who earn income, bonds are 15% of the contributions to the first pension column where current pensions are financed. That's why we're talking about the first pillar as a system of generational solidarity. 2020 21 billion kuna was paid on that basis. The bonds are also 5% of the contributions to individual capitalised savings or the second pillar to our personal accounts in compulsory pension funds that we choose or the system automatically places us in a given category and then these coins are capitalised over the years and eventually the assets are converted into pension through pension insurance companies. That's how 7.5 billion kuna was paid last year. Contributions to be paid monthly shall be made in the transitional account. It's actually one central place of payment for contributions, the place where payments are allocated to insurance companies. If employers have properly filed a report on receipts, income tax and taxes, and contributions to compulsory insurance, it is a JOPPD form, then we have no problem and these funds, contributions to the first and second pillars are channeled to our personal accounts and the state budget. However, if the employer did not submit, did not properly submit the JOPPD form there may be an error at the entry of the OIB, it may be the wrong amount of payment, the larger amount of payment or the sum of payments in several previous months, then these funds are unrelated and they end up in the temporary account of Regosa, so where it is not really the end place, but there is a place for it and they are placed on the provisional account of Regos. The Ministry of Labour and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is 2018. prescribed that Regos has the official authority to connect unrelated payments of the second pillar and return them to the personal accounts of the users of compulsory pension funds. The deadline for this is 8 days from the receipt of the unrelated payment. Since January 2002. To date, more than 94 billion kunas have been paid to the second pillar. Within 8 days, 95% of payments are connected, and the unrelated payments today in the second column are about 0.37% and in the course of 2021. Almost 355 million kuna has been withdrawn from the provisional account, which means that such a system is functioning. As regards the contribution of the first pillar in 2014 To date, more than 165 billion kuna contributions have been paid into it, of which 99.5% are related, and unrelated payments account for about 0.54%, which is currently 887 million kuna. The current law in question will give Regos official authority as well as the outstanding assets of the second pillar so that he can channel them where they belong, and their place is in the personal accounts of the insurance company. It is also important to point out that employers or bonds of payment via the e-tax system can, they can verify that all JOPPD forms are filled out properly and if they are not able to fix it, so they will not need intervention under official duty. It is also important to point out that our future pension has nothing to do with the fact that the resources of our contribution are potentially unsettled because pensions are accounted for at the base of salary and employment. And of course, the higher both parameters are, the higher the pension. Speaking of pensions today, I'll look back on today's pensions. The average pension without international contracts today is around 3,000 kuna, which is 40.6% of the average net wage. Average age pension for insurance companies with an internship of more than 40 years. is about 5,000 kuna, which is 67% of the average net salary. It is evidence that longer stay in the world of work ensures a higher pension in the future. In the last 5 years. All pensions for a million and 232,000 pensioners grew by 18%. For those pensioners receiving the lowest pensions, about 270 thousand pensions grew by more than 23%. If we compare this to the previous period from 2011 to 2015, pensions grew when pensions grew by only 4.6%. It is also important to highlight the proportion of workers and pensioners who, according to the latest data, are one pensioner to 1.28 workers, and when taking over from the SDP, the situation was 1 to 1.14 and of course it did not come in itself, this government has made a number of efforts and legislative changes to increase pensions for pensioners. Thus, there is an extended circle of pensioners who can work and receive pensions, allowing pensioners to generate additional income, as well as a gradual exit from the world of work. This measure is now used by about 19,000 pensioners. As a demographic measure within the pension system, an additional 6-month period for each child born and adopted has been introduced for mothers and adopters, thus increasing the pension by about 2% and easing the difference in the amount of pensions between women and men. It now uses more than 40, almost 43,000 users. A more favourable model for harmonising pensions has also been introduced to ensure that pensioners are more in line with the level of their pensions compared to the increase in wages and prices for consumers. Since the introduction of a more favourable model of pension coordination, 7.8% have been increased. And for the alignment of pensions in 2021. A total of about 650 million kunas were spent. There is also a double increase in the pension factor for later retirement, etc. Bondation from previous 0.15% to 0.34% for each month of retirement after the prescribed age. This stimulates later retirement, rewards longer stay in the world of work and allows for larger pensions. Furthermore, as of 1 July 2019, the minimum pensions have increased by 3.13% and this measure increases the lower level of pension insurance rights. The lowest pensions increased by 23%, by more than 280 thousand users. In order to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, the salary paid to disabled workers during a professional rehabilitation is also raised at least in the amount of minimum gross salary and age has been raised which is entitled to professional rehabilitation from 53 to 55 years. Also, the capitalised savings system has been improved by a series of changes, such as further reduction of administrative costs and liberalisation of investments in pension funds. The data shows that I-I. The pension pillar will play a significant role for future pensioners, i.e. those who will retire for the next 10 to 15 years. Following this, it would also look back on the fact that in May 2020, a Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons was introduced into our legal system, in which a new Institute of National Compensation for Older Persons was introduced. It is a monetary income for Croatian citizens, over 65 years old with a residence in the Republic of Croatia of 20 years prior to the submission of requests that are not beneficiaries of pensions or other incomes. Following the above, the HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90723	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90724	Here, good evening to everyone who's stayed brave to the end. So this is a legal proposal that we can say that most will not have too much comment, however, we said on the Labour Committee that this might be adopted in a faster process, in short, what is already being said. Therefore, since the existing legislative framework does not require the integration of data on the payment of contributions to compulsory pension insurance based on generation solidarity, the 1st pillar of pension insurance under official duty, without the consent of the payer, allows these changes to be made. These amendments require REGOS to implement, without the consent of the payer, the unconnected payment of compulsory pension insurance contributions on the basis of generational solidarity, in accordance with its official duty. Now, here we've heard some data, it seems a little different from what you've been saying on the Committee, but let's just say I won't be wrong, says that almost 800 and a few million kunas of unrelated pension contributions are recorded today, which is only about 0.54 of the total contributions to the 1st pillar of pension insurance. You also told us there were about 0.37 unrelated data in II. The pole. So it's a very small number. Also, in the discussion on the Committee, the Ministry has told us that unrelated payments for compulsory pension insurance have not yet been made, it is also important to say, have not affected the exercise of insurance rights and the Tax Administration is in control of payments, so all this is more or less formality and the procedure may have been faster, but I would ask the right question, so why is HDZ so worried about the Central Insurance Register, and I have already suggested in my replica why, not just because of workers. This means a serious source of statistical manipulation that actually HDZs say is good for us and that obviously people no longer believe in their eyes and warn that they should believe what HDZ says. When it means both the government and Plenkovic are praised for the successes, but HDZ often on its sites, as Minister Aladrovic, then cite HZMO data that runs insurance statistics or employees in the Republic of Croatia, and keep repeating that the number is higher than before the Covid crisis. Here's a statement from Plenkovic from the 6th month. '20. In the year, the number of employees, more than 2,000, the number of employees is greater than 2,000 but at the end of February, so before the start of the crown crisis in 6. I mean, it's 2. I mean, 2,000 more people are employed. But it's a lot of manipulation, which I think the opposition is weak. In fact, employees and insurance companies are not necessarily the same. So in insurance statistics, for example, people with extended insurance, young people on professional training without working relationship, there are all kinds of contracts, and for years Croatia has been, whether the first in the EU under these short-term labour contracts, as much as 4.6% of Croatian workers are working on a 3 month contract, the EU average is only 2%, there are also foreign workers who are now imported more than before because of the full liberalisation of labour force imports and the total cancellation of quotas, etc., etc. Now I'm going to tell you how much that's the number that HDZ manipulates, so last year there were 16 700 people less employed than they were insured, so it's not a very small number, and two years ago that number was 26,000 less. So we can say that HDZ manipulates tens of thousands of people who aren't employed, but are insurance companies. Now the secretary of state said, that's a small number compared to 1,600 000 employees, but if the prime minister boasts that 2,000 more jobs, then it's not a small number, is it? That's not a small number because here we're talking about dozens of people who are insurance companies, and they're not employees. Also, you have the National Statistics Office in 2021 published some important data on the working, working, active population, the number of employees, the number of unemployed, the inactive population, and there you will find that from 2018 to today, 60,000 people are less in the total number of working age population in just 3 years, 60,000 people. That 19,000 are less labour-active that employees are more or less constantly the same number of millions and 600 thousand, that the unemployed are only 1,800 less in 3 years, but the most shocking information you will find in this statistics of the State Statistics Institute is that almost a million people are able to work, but not employed. So when we're talking about problems, we're mostly talking about emigrated, but we have a huge amount of actually untapped capacity, a country that almost a million people mean doesn't take advantage of, that's not workingable, it can't progress, it's safe. And when we say, when we listen to Plenkovic mean that he often boasts with numbers, a larger number of employees then it is always important to warn about this manipulation because it is not about small numbers if we speak of ten thousand, it is a serious manipulation, but even if we don't mention here, a colleague also began to mention these figures as to how secure it is, how much pension it has grown, it did not specify what often in the HDZ jokebachter says the unemployment rate has fallen. Let's say that Andrej Plenkovic boasts the unemployment rate fell from 13% to 7%, and never states that there was a drop in that unemployment rate, and of course we all know that she's here because so many people have moved out. It's almost possible here I'm attached to that debate we've had as morbidly as to indicate a higher percentage of healthy after you've simply exposed all humans to the co-morbidity of the virus because of the completely liberal measures that we've been under. Now, these are really great tools of HDZ's chess kitchen of small statistical manipulations, so I would like to warn the opposition that it is true, or that we should respond to it. So let's also say the alleged reduction in the unemployment rate cited by this low unemployment rate is often directed back in 2019 when it came to that historically low level below 7%, but then we already had about 300,000 people evicted. So today we even have a rate of labourable evicted population 17.6%. So it's an absolute record, I think only Romanians are in front of us. The rate of employment of HDZ is indicative of never mentioning it. We are meaning by the rate of employment some of the worst in Europe are below us only Spain, Italy and Greece so I would warn that although we have a word here about a formal law, well we will support it, even though before it means nothing has happened to the insurance companies, but that we should keep the books fair, but we should keep those books that are conducted fairly and then honestly interpret them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90725	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Martina Vlasic Iljkic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90726	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Central Insurance Register Act. As we had the opportunity to hear from the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership in front of the promoter even in the first reading and in the second reading it is actually a technical accounting matter. In this direction we also held a debate in the first reading and now we have a debate in this second reading where there are no changes and I must note that unfortunately the debate on much more important laws in the past two weeks has been conducted as united. For example, the reform package of the social care system when we had 7 laws, a united package for discussion or yesterday, for example, judicial reform when a united debate also made it impossible for a quality debate and debate regarding the content of the law. So here, and in this bookkeeping as we've heard the bookkeeping stuff we have an opportunity to discuss here in two readings unlimitedly time-dependent on the reported so that I'd just like to point out the absurdity of priority. I must also point out here and refer to a colleague who has mentioned, in the context of, and in the context of, this reform of the welfare system and care for pensioners, and mentioned the compensation for elderly people who do not have income or who do not have a pension or are not users of minimum benefits, it should be said that the data are actually talking about the success of this fee. Of the planned 20,000 users as planned according to this fee we have ultimately planned around 5 or we have about 5,000 users which is actually, or if we talk about the index execution only 33% of the funds planned over the last year were spent on that fee. So that the success of planning and actually the number of users, the data itself speak and we think that certainly by informing the users and that some changes in these fees should certainly be taken into account, and especially now that we have also had an increase in the guaranteed minimum fees when this national fee for older people is actually no longer making sense that the amount is 800 kuna and we expect that it is now in the context of guaranteed minimum fees and 1000 kuna. But let's start with insurance, so the existing legislative framework is not required to link the data on payment of contributions to compulsory pension insurance based on generation solidarity, etc. the first pension column under official duty without the consent of the payer. The Insurance Central Register Act provides for the integration of data on payment of contributions to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings under official duty without the consent of the payer for payments of more than 6 months with the obligations of the receiving report, income tax and tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance, etc. JOPPD form. The payers of the second-income salary shall submit data to Regos and Regos and the tax administration, respectively, on the prescribed forms. a common template for each payment of contributions for compulsory pension insurance. In practice, this means that unconnected payments are made until the payers submit appropriate forms or requests for reimbursement or termination. As we had an opening opportunity to feel, since the bonds did not apply for the connection of unrelated JOPPD forms it is almost evident that there are 840 million kunas of unrelated contributions of the first pension column or 0.52% of the total contributions of the first pension, first pension column or first pension insurance. These changes actually enable the law to connect payments and we hope that in some way we will get rid of this system and I believe that for the benefit of the citizens as well because they certainly have had some difficulties and although we have heard the opportunity not to have any difficulty in achieving certain rights, we have had the opportunity to get the information that yet certain difficulties with the citizens stood as to this matter, so that we are willing or as in the first reading of the SDP Club will support this change so as not to take place means such unrelated payments or to give this system the opportunity to resolve and as you say do not affect the number of insurance companies, but here we are a little skeptical since every system we touch has some problems in the records about, in statistics, in interpreting everything. I think we should certainly take care of all these systemic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90727	In the name of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the honourable representative Erik Fabianic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90728	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, proposing representatives. My intention was to be brief, but I may also repay myself if we are to waste time on praises and achieving what this government has done for the pensioners because it is the same discussion, something this colleague Peovic said about it. Namely, the Social Democrats Club will support this, these amendments to the law. What it was and my remark that I'm going to make here a second time on the Labour Committee itself is that, we've been waiting 3 years, I think we should have done it earlier. Yeah, there's one other thing that's very important in this whole story, and that's that moment and it's not a problem when we're talking about an insurance company for what's going on, so when the law changes and the rule is passed. However, my question is what if someone has already filed a pension claim and achieved pension rights, how will his pension be calculated until there is a coincidence because here is not a question of the conditions of the internship, we know the internship is clean, in the database we have an internship, but here is the question of how we will calculate the pension because the pension has been calculated for quite a long time in Croatia only by the retributive system, which means on the basis of paid contributions that are in the system of generational, generational solidarity. But I'll take this opportunity to be constructive once again, abolished from January 1st this year by the number of citizens, but we're still finding it if you write a pension.hr go under the printers, then you'll see that all forms still contain the home number of citizens as a request, so I hope that this one will react much faster than Regos reacted to the matching of these, these cases. I know that the system of people and employees working in the pension system is very burdensome. Here I'm going to use this pay phone to compliment them on their work again, this one, although they have relatively modest salaries, but this is for God's sake by informers who may be outsoring well and paid, so let them do the job. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90729	Thank you. We are going to an individual debate, so the first one will be spoken by a respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90730	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about the final draft law supplementing the Central Insurance Register Act, which we call Regos. Regos is the central insurance register and is the state institution for keeping records of the status of personal pension accounts. Its main task is to collect contributions for members of compulsory pension funds and keep records of members' personal accounts. The Regosa tents are the only place where a mandatory pension fund can be selected and are located in the FINA’s offices. One of the tasks of Regosa is to connect data with accounting contributions for pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings of the second pillar, and to contribute to pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity, the second pillar with data on corresponding payments. Today's bill proposes to amend the existing law in a way that will improve and improve the process of payment of contributions to pension insurance on the basis of the first pillar. The payment obligation shall be paid by the payer, fee or other income on each payment, and shall be determined by the tax administration’s decision for the self-indemnity of the payment of the contribution. The unrelated payments we are talking about today are on the provisional account and are not transferred to the Generation Solidarity Fund as well as all remaining contributions to the first pillar of pension insurance. In particular, this means that bonds have paid contributions for the first pillar but because of the falsely filled forms, that money has not yet come to the right place or has not been allocated to the insurance companies or to their accounts. The most common errors are due to the misspelling of the JOPPD pattern, or more payments or duties expressed in multiple forms were made by one payment. It's about mistakes of a technical nature. Since this is a total of 0.55 total payments, we cannot say that the system generally does not work, and even today the payers have the possibility or payers have the opportunity to request a transfer or return through the e-tax system, however it is evident that there are creditors who have not done so and over the years it is clear that they will not do so. This proposal will give REGOS the power to make unrelated payments under official duty without the consent of the obligors. The connection of payments, payment for the second pillar has already been regulated and is implemented by REGOS after the amendment and addition of the law of 2018. These amendments of 2018 have also been introduced, under the obligation of pension societies to invest part of their income each year in strengthening the financial literacy of citizens on individual capitalised savings. Financial literacy has been on various types of savings for years and has been at a rather low level, so it is good that the ministry has obliged pension societies to invest in empowering financial literacy. As a state institution, the REGOS itself makes efforts to bring citizens closer to the subject of pension insurance, so in 2021 REGOS opened pension information centres in 4 regional centres, namely Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Zagreb with the aim of openness and transparency of the pension system towards the public as well as strengthening the pension literacy of citizens. The Peace Centre is a place where all interested citizens and entrepreneurs can get information about the opportunities offered to them in relation to the pension system and, with the help of professional and trained employees, can be informed about the pension insurance system from the work of REGOS and HZMO. This makes it easier for citizens to take actions that will result in better financial management and more accumulated means for better life in old age. And certainly, the aim is to increase the availability and quality of publicly available information in the area of pension insurance because I also consider it necessary for all of us because we all have a question of how much we as citizens are even financially written and how much we know about the funds that in particular employers pay for pension insurance, whether we follow the amounts and payments in our accounts, where we invest the money we pay through contributions, how funds operate, if we know what our rights are at all and obligations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90731	Here you can stay right away, given that you've reached out on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to finalize your speech. Here you go, distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90732	Thank you. We are talking about the final proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, a brief REGOS. The Insurance Central Register Act entered into force on 1 January 2014, and in 2018 it was amended and updated. The law prescribes the legal position of the body, the business, the powers and tasks of the central register of REGOS insurance companies, the way in which the register is kept, the reporting and use of data from the register, the remaining relevant questions for the business of REGOS. There were no proposals and objections to the draft law at the debate held on 11 November so that the text of the final draft law we are discussing today, the Insurance Central Register Act is no different from the text of the proposal for a law than the additions. There were no major procedures in the law itself, the changes covered only 4 articles. The proposed amendments shall prescribe powers in the REGOS to connect unrelated payments of the contribution of the first pension pillar without the consent of the payer of contributions such as those already prescribed for the contributions of the second pension pillar in 2018. The adoption of this law does not affect the exercise of the right of the insurance undertaking but relieves the obligation to pay the contributions from additional administrative transactions to connect unrelated payments. In order to implement the final draft law, it was necessary to provide technical preconditions for the implementation of the connection of unrelated payments under official duty. This applies to the implementation of programming solutions through the joint application of REGOS and the Tax Administration, and to the equating of procedures in connection with the non-related contributions to pension insurance, intergenerational solidarity and the first pillar of pension insurance. Since inter-resorship cooperation is concerned, the Ministry of Finance has prescribed, by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Income Tax Regulation, the integration under the official duty of public administration from its jurisdiction with effect from 1 January 2022. The Minister responsible for the work with the previous responsibility of the Minister of Finance will comply with the Regulation on the connection of the data on contributions for compulsory pension insurance with the provisions of this Act within 30 days. The implementation of the law in question does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The final draft law was also discussed on the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, held at the 17th session held on 25 January 2022. After the discussion was carried out, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to HS to pass a law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act. Today's debate has shown that the clubs of MPs and MPs are satisfied with the proposed amendments and that there is agreement on the acceptance of the amendments in question. Following the above, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of a law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-03-0.u90733	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue to work, now we'll stop working, and we'll start tomorrow at 9:30, and the first item will be the amendment law and the additions of the State Measurement Act and the real estate cataster. Have a good night. Session adjourned in 20.27 hours.
