ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102746	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I'd like to give you all my best regards, just a little attention before we go. So first we vote, then there will be a statement of view and then we will discuss 2 points according to the announced agenda. For next week, so we'll leave Monday at 12:00, then we'll work Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then that should be it. If, of course, there are some extraordinary circumstances, there may always be an extraordinary session, but so far it is planned to end 15.7. ... I didn't understand. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, fellow Whitey, you wanted something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102747	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I have an observation of a technical nature. I mean, we're short a chair, how confident I know the chair isn't made of iron, I really don't know who stole it, but we're missing it, so if you can fix something with... He's gone, he's gone, and he's not made of iron.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102748	So where exactly did you pick up?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102749	Well, it's me, yeah. If he had any extra instruments, then I'd suspect myself, but he doesn't. If you don't mind, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102750	I didn't hear you, but good. Let's go. There's something else I'd like to say at the beginning. I got a letter from Councilwoman Bencic about that event that took place two days ago and a speech from a colleague of the Pricks. I will strongly condemn it, I think the speech was inappropriate, that that statement is unworthy of what should be said in HS and I invite you all not to do such things. Also, I would stand in the protection of my colleague Reiner because he acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I watched the video, and he made it clear to his colleague Raukar and his colleague Prkacin, however, first of all, and to his colleague Raukar at the same time made it clear that these two proceedings were not at the same level and clearly condemned what his colleague Prkacin said, but you must be aware, however, my colleague Bencic asked that I sanction the Vice President of the Parliament, this is impossible, it does not exist in the Croatian Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure of the HS, so the warnings were given, however, is not only a reminder of what is a sanction, the sanctions is what is spoken, and indeed there is no equality in the procedure of counterpart Raukar and in what he said to his colleague Prkacin. So the conviction, inappropriate, unacceptable, and I invite you all not to go into debate with personal insults and we can speak very harshly, critically, fiercely to political opponents, but I do ask that we do not do what our colleague Pracchin did because it does not lead anywhere. Here, I have to say, so I'm sorry that this happened and I'm asking you not to do that anymore. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102751	Thank you. Well, I would take this opportunity to say that, if I were to continue to believe that my colleague Reiner had not applied the HS Rules of Procedure in the way he should have been applied, because he had indeed given the same sentence, so he also gave the warning to Prkačina and to my colleague Raukar, when it was clear that it was really necessary to take away the word of Mr. Prickin right away. I'll say, Mr. Rainer's treatment is about the same as when the police used to give a criminal order for both the bully and the victim of her. Because she was yelling at him because he was beating her. [[Intruder: colleagues, colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102752	My colleague Bencic, I watched the video, so my colleague Reiner made his position very clear and condemned what his colleague Prkachin said. At that moment, he procedurally has no other options but has given notice, he cannot arbitrarily now, past the Rules of Procedure, take away a word, please now, that we do not open up this debate. Please, I beg you, colleagues and colleagues, please. Hold it, everybody. Comrade Sanader, peace. Understand the position of the chairman, you tell us very often that we are being arbitrarily and that we judge as we consider necessary, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. This was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I repeat once again, the words said by counterpart Reiner clearly showed what he thought about what was said by fellow Pracchin, and what was the violation committed by a colleague of Raukar. So there's no sign of equality, but procedurally, then we're going to have to change the Rules of Procedure and I agree that we can automatism when such a thing happens to someone take away a word or ask them to leave the assembly, but at this point in time there's no business possibility. It would be arbitration that would then end up on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and then the vice president would have been ruled if he had broken the Rules of Procedure. I've studied it very well, so I'm sorry that it happened, I repeat again, we will strongly condemn it every time, but it is primarily for MPs and MPs to avoid such a speech. I beg you now, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not move forward with the violations of the Rules of Procedure because we are not going to achieve anything. Can I ask you to...? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102753	Thank you. So your conviction comes after a week ago the same colleague told the Sisak mayor that she was fat and fat, and to this side, my colleague Peović and I received two warnings, colleague Maric one, and colleague Prkacin neither, Mr. Reiner, either. So much so that you apply the same models, or equally, that you punish not even the same victim and the bully, but that those who defend the victim punish them And the bully doesn't at all. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Kekin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102754	So, explained this situation earlier I can't comment on it, but you don't have to repeat what's ugly about someone so that it's heard again in the air, it's not necessary, I mean it, but good as you want. Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102755	Thank you, Mr. President. In that video you watched you could see something that Vice President Reiner did, namely he didn't immediately react, he was completely amazed and did not react as otherwise patronizing especially colleagues..., believe but continuously patronizing almost as children, and in this case he was completely amazed Although I only want to end this, I am glad that this colleague is not present today, but this colleague did not only insult us regularly by fellow Serb national minorities, but regularly. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Matula.]] And we rise I found a way... how it hasn't been so far because of cowardice. [[Break president: Comrade Matula, please.]] I believe we were getting up and going out of his speeches. [[I'm asking you now to sit down for a while.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102756	Comrade Matula now you are doing the same thing that is inappropriate, please we have made it clear, I have sent a very clear message on behalf of the HS leadership and I ask you to accept it. Here you go, fellow Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102757	Thank you very much. Art. 238, from talks with colleagues from all political options to none of the vice-presidents of the assembly or you as speaker of the assembly, there are no objections as there are objections to the behaviour of counterpart Reiner. I'll remind you, he gave me a warning three times in 20 seconds and he took his word and took me away from the session that I didn't realize what it was about. Well, obviously he's no match for that function, he's no match for that function, and if he's up to his position, I suggest you give him a white horse as a knight of parades outside the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102758	Come on, pal, come on, come on, let's not pretend now, it's just abuse and please, can we finish now? Please slowly. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102759	I'm calling in an article. 238, in order to warn you that it's not exactly what you said, you have an article in your Rules of Procedure. In 240, it's a little rare for me to warn you about who you are here in a few terms, but we'll read it. "A reminder by taking away the words will also be given to the representative when he calls for violence or hatred or when he insults Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, both foreign and international organisations and their representatives." It was necessary to take away the counsel's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102760	My colleague Peović, what you read, so I could take away almost any one of you, then take away the word Because here, it's insulting all over the series, on different grounds, this insults foreign statesmen, and then everyone gets a warning. [[Intruder Peović: Feel free to do so.]] By taking away the words. [[Intruder Peovic: I invite you to do this.]] But this is also not an argument that means you can't throw a man out and there can't be sanctions for what he said adequately in the Rules of Procedure there isn't. And please, here's a colleague of Raukar Gamulin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102761	I'm sorry, but I still have to call an officer. In 238, I had no intention of speaking today, but quite procedurally. In that event when I reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I really said I would have been hurt by that same Breacher, my colleague Reiner interrupted me, he wouldn't have allowed me to speak because he had already given a warning. I just want to say no matter what he said, we have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you of the procedure. It's on your tape, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102762	I watched the video, so you were throwing it out of place, it's the same thing that needs to be sanctioned by the rules of procedure. But once again, it's not the same level of what you and what's been said by fellow Pricks. We've made it clear what we're thinking, and I'm going to call you all once more so that we don't use harsh words, not to be offensive to each other, but to fight a political battle hard with arguments or without arguments, but we don't go ad-hominem, we don't go to people particularly insolent. Now let's go to what our main task is. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs in accordance with the article. I will propose an amendment to the 11th session agenda with 11 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, Art. The 206 Rules of Procedure determines that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 1 of the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Law on maternity and parental support, with the Final Proposal for a Law. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of Appeal at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 11th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102954	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Majda Buric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102955	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the HS, the Honorable MPs and MPs. In view of the record number of persons employed by independence in the Republic of Croatia, which shows the results of billions and 640 million employees currently in the Republic of Croatia, given also a record low number of unemployed, given continued wage growth, pensions, all other social benefits. Given also the expected record tourist season, I will talk about Croatia's tourism exactly. So despite the extremely challenging times in which we are located, Croatian tourism has shown its strength and resilience. Croatia is one of the most desirable tourist destinations in the Mediterranean and is the result, above all, of quality preparation, of close cooperation between the entire tourist sector and the government of all resorts in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Currently, 94% of the results from the record 2019 are achieved, while with the most important broadcasting markets, such as Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic and Austria, we also achieve a higher number of nights compared to the same time of the record year 2019, which I experience as a confirmation of growing demand beyond the summer months. If we touch the financial indicators, they are so far above the level of the same period in 2019, namely, this year's first quarter according to revenues achieved by foreign guests by 2% is better than the first quarter of 2019, and the value of fiscalised accounts in the first 6 months is 24% higher than in the first 6 months 2019, while the June month is even 39% better than in June 2019. According to all this data, it can also be optimistic about the main part of the season ahead of us and in which we otherwise make 70% of total turnover and 63% of total income. Although tourism statistics are one of the essential indicators of success and the concept of the sun and sea, one of the main motives of the arrival of tourists in Croatia, the aim of the Resoring Ministry of Tourism and Sports and the complete government of the Republic of Croatia is to develop sustainable tourism, which implies a balanced visit throughout the year and throughout the Republic of Croatia, but also to care for cultural, natural heritage and connection with local population and environmental care. Therefore, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has drawn up a strategic document or strategy for the development of sustainable tourism by 2030 which will, in fact, determine the future of further development of Croatian tourism in the coming decade, and the strategy will soon be published in public consultation. It is precisely the sustainability of the core around which the strategic objectives of the new Strategy are being built. As far as the National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself is concerned, it should be said that funds of, more than 2 billion were provided through it for the first time for investment for tourism, which is extremely commendable and additionally, provide opportunities for the development of sustainable tourism, and calls will be announced as planned by the end of the third quarter. For investment in public tourist infrastructure, 930 million kuna is available to increase the attractiveness of less developed destinations, which will certainly help reduce seasonality, and 1.2 billion kuna is available for investment in private tourist infrastructure. In order to position Croatia as an innovative and sustainable destination this year, the Ministry has also initiated an additional deforestation project to compensate, in fact, for emissions from the tourist vehicle. And what should also, in particular, be pointed out is that an extremely large contribution, but also a direct and direct impact on quality and on the power of Croatian tourism will certainly give Croatia's immediate entry into the monetary union or into the euro area, into Schengen, as well as the opening of the Peljega Bridge, all of this is irrefutable evidence and expressions. modern Croatian sovereignty. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u102956	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103046	Your Honor. With this speech I want to publicly ask the question of the quo vadis Croatian judiciary? Is that what you do for a Croatian judge? I wish they'd ask themselves that question. All 1,700 as many as Croatia has at this time. I am saying this about the information published in the media that Supreme Court President Radovan Dobronic replaced Judge Damir Kos, who was the president of the Penalty Department, as well as Judge Marina Mrcel, who was head of the European Court of Justice's case-laws department for disagreement over the discussion of the additional paid engagements of judges in arbitration, as well as the lawsuits of judges against the media. I must say that I fully support Radovan Dobronic, his program for which he was entrusted in HS. I think he has a good idea and a vision and one reform force that could really help the Croatian judiciary. At the same time, I respect the knowledge and expertise, the competences of Judge Marina Mrcela, respect his role in GRECO, as well as Damir Kosa. But I urge them to consider their role and position and to change their views in the public interest. Namely, the judiciary in whose work the public lacks confidence cannot perform its role. Not only can he judge justice, but he can't judge it at all. Each ruling contains an element with which one party in the dispute will not be satisfied and without confidence in the judge, without confidence in the judiciary as a whole, always the one party who is dissatisfied with the dispute will argue that the judgment is an instrument of force and the product of someone's corrupt interests. Political, especially HDZ, is exactly the kind of perception of justice that suits the most. Contrary to most of the public's view, most of our citizens, I believe that the main culprits for this mistrust in the Croatian judiciary, for the statistics on which we are always at the bottom of the Croatian scale, are not the most and are not the main culprits themselves, but the politicians, and among politicians mostly HDZ as a party in power. And I always say that the judiciary is not HDZ because it is judged by corrupt, lazy HDZ judges, but because HDZ has created a judicial system to its extent. He has made key institutions, DSV and DOV as complete shrubs, disabled institutions that cannot perform the role and tasks given to them and thus has the HDZ judiciary in their hands. Here we've had opportunities to hear that members of these bodies from the ranks of parliamentary deputies actually don't know the powers they have. One member admitted that he had never checked a single property card of any judge in 2 years of his term. One member admitted that she had no idea that it was actually her role to pin candidates and assess their competences, for example, to draw up charges. So it's a picture. In the past six years, HDZ's government has made its interventions in judicial laws the worst blow and pushed the last nails into the independence of the judicial branch of power. One of the biggest blows is the introduction of security checks on judges and state lawyers and I strongly opposed it, but it is very difficult to defend the judiciary and judges against the corrupt political party, who are entitled to corruption convicted, unless they themselves are aware that they have to change the criteria and rules of the game on their own. The judiciary, first of all, can reform the judges themselves. If they are self-aware enough, if they are ready enough to figure out what the HDZ is constantly bribing them and myths with, which convinces them that their additional activities are normal and accepted, even though that is not the case. The standards of integrity, honesty, professionalism, fully committed to the judicial engagement that someone in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia has is the starting point. And those questions that the Supreme Court president referred to to all judges should be the starting point and the answers to which the entire Croatian public has the right to know and can get answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103101	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I could pick up where my colleague Dretar stopped. And what part of Croatia is gnawed to the bone by these great moralists and the like, so I dare say, east of Croatia, Slavonia, Baranja, West Srijem. And so we had the opportunity to listen to our Prime Minister say last week that in Slavonia he returned to optimism, that in Slavonia he lived never better, that he felt the breath of new winds. Unfortunately, he did not remain immune, at least that impression did not remain immune to our President Jandrokovic, who also said similar things last weekend. But colleagues and colleagues, the only new winds that blow there are the new winds of eviction, and I don't know which of Podokin's villages showed our prime minister and president of HS, that they went with such admiration. Why didn't they take you out of downtown Osijek? Why didn't you see some other parts of town, some other parts of town where every other house or third house is empty? Why didn't you go a little bit into the rural parts.../incomprehensible/... Slavonia and Baranja? Why didn't you go see ours, not half empty, but even empty villages? Why didn't you go talk to our farmers to tell you that roses bloom in agriculture, how we make great laws and how they progress from day to day? What they didn't talk to those who were waiting for a bus or a train, God forbid, from Osijek, say, so they tell them that train has been driving for six hours, and in a good case, you're lucky, practically, if you get there, that's what the HH tells you. Or that they haven't gone to talk to those who continue to dig through the containers looking for a bottle of plastic, so they can earn a few kunas and literally feed on our pensioners? That's what I doubt they've been showing them. And if they'd shown me the things they showed them, I'd say the same thing, yes, in Slavonia, roses bloom. But the situation is much, much, much different. Perhaps our President of Parliament and Government were showing hotels that were built in Krk with money from the Slavonia project? This truly commends a valuable project that will certainly improve departure from Slavonia, at least to work on Krk in the season. They may have been shown all those projects that were implemented by their party colleagues who were partners, godfathers, neighbors, acquaintances, etc. the influential HDZ in Slavonia, which received money from EU funds. Maybe he went to visit the vineyard of former Minister Tolusic. Maybe it's a project that makes new winds blow in Slavonia, Baranja and West Sreme. But, colleagues and colleagues, I must tell you, now here from this place and for the truth, that it is far, far, far from the true state of Slavonia and Baranja. That people, unfortunately, are still waiting literally for someone to die so that they can find a job, that young people continue to leave, and if they don't leave, then they plan to leave. Covid crisis and war in Ukraine have disrupted some of the drains of our brains. But they didn't stop them. And unfortunately, if you talk to young people or citizens on the street in general, they will rarely tell you that they are planning their future in Slavonia, Baranja or West Sreme. And why is that? I'm five minutes too short to talk about it. But they certainly don't plan to leave because of smart politics and new winds blowing in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103193	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103194	Instead of the current government telling us clearly what autumn awaits us and what current crisis we are in and that it also explains how the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina County and other earthquakes affecting areas cannot happen and because of the programme of measures in which prices are not quickly changed to the current market. We need to read the depth and strength of the crisis from the procedures of certain HDZs where we see that the water has come to the throat so much that it is now being stolen from certain construction sites. In this sense, I will look back at what is currently current, which is an attempt by Andrej Plenkovic to dehaize his own government. From the election, 3 key political figures recently, first of all, the new Minister of Construction, then the candidate for mayor of Split, and now the last, Minister of Finance, we see that Andrej Plenkevic is sending a message to HDZ that the ownership of HDZ's card is a difficult environment if he wants to behave as one of the key functions in the party, or implemented in the government. Is it because he dried up the HDZ pool? Is it because Andrej Plenkovic does not appreciate, moreover, members of his own party who have shown confidence or Andrej Plenkovic is taking steps with the decisions of the courts in the Republic of Croatia and admits himself to his own activity that HDZ is a criminal organisation and that therefore its members cannot act as the most responsible functions in the country? It's something that every HDZ man should ask as a question and something their party boss should answer. And I will first and foremost look back at one of the flossules that often slips through public speech, which shows what depth a political scene has come to devast, which results in the citizens' ultimate mistrust in politics. So, we are increasingly hearing about the need for professional, not party people, in government too. The situation is completely reversed. We need people who will be professional, political, or party. Which means being political, i.e. Party? This means passing the legitimacy or verification of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, given your own quality in democratic elections, which should also be regulated differently through the Election Law, where citizens, based on your expertise, trust you to manage the country's social processes. However, we did have a certain retardation. Of course, the HDZ is primarily responsible for it since it is the longest in power, which is that it has been put into key places in the country, rather than professional people, which has now resulted in a reverse process that, past citizens' legitimacy, people who do not have to go through democratic elections in order to act as key functions in the country want to be put in place. And this shows that people are getting smaller and want to participate in general both as voters and as holders of functions in the democratic elections, how deeply the depth of our democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia is. So we need in the Republic of Croatia as many professional people as possible politically activate, demand trust from citizens, and then, if it gets it, behaves the most responsible functions in the country. HDZ that devastated this natural process Now he's trying to get himself out by dehaled. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Your own government. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103365	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.52 HOURS]] No, no, no, I'm saying in principle, I'm basically saying, no, no, no, no, that's a point, that's what's called a point, and uh, we can sit down a little bit and calm down. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative Marko Milanović litre will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103366	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the resolution on a better future of BiH is under discussion today in the afternoons in the German Bundestag. Addis Ahmetovic Bosnjak, a representative of the German SPD in Bundestag, is the main author of this nakaradal resolution that tries to pummel the ideas of Bosniak unitarianism under the vision of the civil political concept, a concept in which there is one Bosnian identity, one Bosnian culture, one Bosnian language and one nation ruling over the others. And when this resolution is voted and BiH finally begins to breathe with the full lungs of unitarism throughout the historical hearths of Croats, throughout BiH after 30 years. Once again, the brotherhood and unity of all the ethnicities of BiH will prevail, all will go to sea, no one will live on debt, each day a new factory will open, there will be jobs for everyone, there will be no poverty, and crime and corruption will disappear overnight. What the resolution promotes is BiH 2.0, which lacks the consistency of three peoples, in which Croats have no rights, in which Croats are hampered by Bosniak interests and policies, in which Croats are placed at the same level as the secessional authority of Republika Srpska, which rightly condemns Dodik and Covic's work, but also where Bakir Izetbegovic, a repeated rapist of Croatian rights in BiH, is not condemned. And it is this fact that the chambers that are the objectives of this resolution by the socialists Ahmetovic and his green pillows and Jarans are. The goal of this resolution is to rape the rights of the constituent Croatian people in BiH, and what does our government do, what does the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs do, what does Minister Grlic Radman and HDZ do while Croatian rights are repeatedly raped in the neighbouring country? They look, they don't participate, they don't intervene, they're observers, they like to watch. In the English speaking area such is called... That's what happened two years ago. In 2020, when Bakir Izetbegovic announced the following and announced what is being debated today in Bundestag, I quote: Croats have too many rights and if they continue in two years, they will not have what they have today, we will develop the chains of parity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats can't have the same as us who have four times as many. If we need friends from Europe and Islamic countries, don't give God a need, we'll win military if we have to. That's what Bakir Izetbegovic said 2 years ago. These messages from Bosniak politicians to Croats in BiH are not an isolated case but a rule, and our minister, who is awaiting impeachment next week, is doing what he does after such statements, nothing, usually just looks at. Politics and decisions by Croatian governments have led to today that the Croats in BiH are twice as many as 30 years ago, today BiH counts only 15% of Catholics, while Orthodox people are about 31% and Muslims are more than 50, and who is to blame for such a situation? They are guilty of all these authorities until today that have had a maternal relationship with their people starting from the very beginning of our state and a compromise solution of Croats without their entity within BiH. It should also be remembered that Jadranka Kosor, who has enthroned representatives of national minorities in Croatia, put them in the front lines to suck up taxpayers' money and all this to the detriment of the Croatian diaspora, which every year sends three times more money to her homeland than the total direct foreign investment. Neither should a small mouse from Madrid, Zoran Milanovic, be forgotten, with all his heart in 2010. Without a reservation, Komsic was pushed under his mandate, which today is Milorad Dodik, one of the largest allies in BiH. The government is no different from the rest of BiH, this minister is no better than the previous ones, and that is why Croatian sovereigns have been collecting signatures for his impeachment, and that is why Grlic Radman must step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103489	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103490	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Another Friday, once upon a time in his theatre group, doing a satirical performance "Greetings from Remetinco" my colleague and I thanked USKOK for continuing to work on the production of material for our play. Likewise today, we don't need to think about things at all and the material comes from itself. The first measure, the parent parent, remained in force, the decision by Mayor Tomasevic to abolish the measures, has been declared illegal by the court. The agenda of the so-called agenda. The progressive left left in Croatia continues with a measure of global ideology that wants to destroy anything that can identify any person, any group of persons, any civilization, state, nation, religion and as the ultimate goal of the family. Obviously, the only thing we can really do is finally answer the question of where the wild pigs go, with Zagreb's asphalt to the garbage dumps of the capital cantograd. The International Investment Dispute Resolution Centre ruled against Croatia, and in favour of the MOL in a dispute that will cost all of us around two billion kuna. In fact, the disputed contract under which the Croatian state has committed to take over the storage and sale of gas from the INA, buys all of Ina's domestic gas production at market prices over a period of as long as 15 years. To conclude together, the purest example of corruption at the very top of the country ended with a debacle to be paid by the Croatian people. The impact of a certain part of the male body on the thorn is extremely easy if it is someone else's. The finance minister left the government, asked a number of questions, fled a sinking ship to prevent a new affair, or was he simply bored. Not getting into his personal reasons no matter what happens on Wednesdays to the former minister, we can just say rest, you deserve it. Statistics are merciless of the magnificent 20 from 2016, there are only three left. The affairs, arrests, investigations, corruption, guessings, nepotism, infatuation, theft, deception, incompetence and much more, and not a very nice one cost them political positions. If anyone's worried about their future, there's no reason for fear. They are fertile and are burdened with various benefits by state mangers, and there will always be more than enough fine and delicious hay for meek and obedient sheep and quietly glaring lambs. Of course another big news this week and the arrest of former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Tomislav Tolusic. When we read everything the European Anti-Fraud Office has charged him with, we can really say, things are at a level of wonder. The man turned the existing vineyard into an oran on paper, and then when he got the money, he suddenly became a vineyard again. The man created 2.5 million kunas from nothing, pulled another 2.5 million kunas from Europe, and successfully enveloped his wine envelope. We have to say freely, after turning water into wine, what happened in Cana Galilee a few thousand years ago, this is one of the greatest miracles I've ever witnessed. I didn't do it before, but I read a lot about it. Generally, the European Anti-Fraud Office, popularly called OLAF, obviously has no hearing of such miracles performed by former Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Tolusic. It is clear that for the end of the week, I have left as a treat a prominent member of the ruling party arrested in theft. Well, that's not really a novelty, but this time, the object of the grab is extremely original. Building iron, a party that has packed hundreds of Croatian companies in its pocket, blacked out thousands of factories, undersold tens of thousands of apartments, has fallen into some kind of chickening with rods and bricks. The continuous metastasisation of HDZ that has lasted for 30 years and has affected all the authorities of the Croatian society, I must admit that it has also spread unexpectedly to the market for secondary raw materials. The ruling party also took part in a lively match in the economy sector very creatively and efficiently. Where's the end of it? The rusty machine, the broken refrigerators, the old bikes or maybe the new slogan, we never had enough, we gnawed to the bone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103789	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u103790	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, I was talking about the inhumane representation of Roma families from New Vinodolski that shouldn't have happened this way. The result is that we have over 10 people sleeping at the sports stadium in New Vinodolski under the open sky and waiting for help from anyone. We enter in the third week of this situation of course with alleged efforts of the city and with all the information I have there is no real estate in the area of Novi which could be granted and rented for the purposes of their temporary accommodation. As we enter into the third week of this problem, and that things are not moving from a dead spot, the attorney general warned that if someone refuses to rent an apartment on the basis of national belongings, they are subject to the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and that such behaviour is punishable. This warned the town of Novi Vinodolski, which is reportedly seeking, and which is also responsible for the housing of socially endangered families in this area under the Social Care Act. There is no reaction from representatives of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, whom we have not only addressed as representatives of the Roma community but also 28 civil society associations, accommodations that have allegedly refused to offer from the welfare centre which has been rejected for the reason why a stay for homeless people who do not receive children and who do not have a living room, so adequate accommodation has not been offered even though it wants to show up. The only goal of this whole process is to drive the only members of the Roma national minority from the territory of Novi Vinodolski and to transfer the problem to someone else, another institution, another unit of local self-government. The second week in a row I'm talking about this, and I thought it would never come to this, that in the social state as we are by the constitution I could tell the family humanitarian disaster in a tourist resort during the tourist season. It is another class case that responsibility is transferred from one institution to another. I also visited last week with the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Kalisar, and we helped them with the circumstances. But the basic idea of people who are from this scenario is that after they leave the New Vinodolski area and never return there. It's a carefully planned project and a request we've heard in meetings before. We're going to help them get away under the pretext of dealing with criminals, the continued dehumanization of the family to highlight incidents that have been happening all these years, rough generalization all to show up in the worst light in which those who potentify it partially and succeed. The residential facility they were living in was torn down among other things because it was insecure and not conditional on life, and now it's not a problem that they're under the open sky. The facility was torn down in a way that the people involved made fun of these people, all accompanied by the excessive presence of the intervention police. The facility was torn down in a way that part of their private property was destroyed throughout the process, from which it had been more than 10 days and until last Saturday when from the second time I visited no progress was made. I wonder if in this case we haven't informed the media and we're not talking about this case so we can treat them then? This way of dealing with them continues, and although they are staying in the sports field, no one wants to give them access to the use of either showers or toilets for use by the terrain, they are left to themselves, and the welfare centre and local humanitarian organisations do not offer an adequate temporary solution. If, as a state, there is not a single real estate available for these situations, then we really need to think about one across the social programme, and in these uncertain times, it does not exclude that we will not look at these images more often. I'm angry because I think this shouldn't have happened before alternative accommodation was found, and here I see the greatest responsibility of the local welfare center and the town of Novi Vinodolski. I hope this is the first and last case of this. I call upon all ministers, colleagues and colleagues and institutions to visit these people to see what great criminals do when they sleep in the open sky in 2022. In the middle of the tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u117246	The final draft law implementing EU Regulation 2021/784 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 on the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 297. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the House Movement Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club and the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. We held the statement earlier at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So we're going in a row. First, the amendments to the Legislative Committee. First amendment accepted. Other accepted in modified form. The applicant, i.e. the applicant of the amendment, agreed to accept the amendment in the amended form. 3., 4, 5. and 6th Amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted, they become an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2 we have the House of Homeland Movement's Club, the government doesn't accept them, so we'll vote on one and the other. Amendment 1. Let's vote. He didn't need the number of votes. And the second amendment of the same club of representatives. Please, let's vote. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed. We are now going to an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government is also not accepting it. Let's vote. He didn't need the number of votes. And the two amendments are to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, both governments do not accept, so let's vote first. He didn't need the number of votes. And the second amendment of the same club of representatives. Please, let's vote. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/784 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 on the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet. Please, let's vote. 119 MPs and MPs voted, 111 were in favour, 7 abstentions and 1 against, and thus the Law was adopted. Final proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and matters relating to parental responsibility and on international child abduction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 278, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. We have made a statement, and we will now vote on amendments that the Proposer does not accept. We have two amendments. Both governments don't accept. 1st Amendment, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the second amendment of the same club of MPs, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and on matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction. Please, let's vote. Unanimously, with 119 votes, the law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u117643	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club For a just Croatia for 10 minutes to point out once again that this law, and even the fact that if we set up cultural councils at the level of kindergartens will not help the catastrophic state of culture in the Republic of Croatia, will not help the ministry that spends 4 million kuna a day to support institutions and the action of certain parts of these institutions such as HRT where, in the masterly cycle of the symphony orchestra in 11 concerts, only one Croatian director or conductor is conducting, too, it will not help because in the cycle of the Sfumato HRT Assembly the next year, a well-known Serbian conductor who is known for conducting the famous Marsh on Drin, it will not help the Minister to elect members of the Council and presidents, because of the same powers that it gives the mayors and mayors, will not be able to give them the right of this Treaty, which will enable them to create that they in real way of the law that they do so. It is a classic form of how in some ways the deep state is rooted in Croatia and how it uses every possible moment to buy people and that these people afterwards exclusively for their political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u117644	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. We continue to work in accordance with article. 293.b. So we're going with the amendment of MP Hasanbegovic, the government doesn't accept him. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to the amendments to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the first amendment, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment of the same club was accepted and became an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. Two, the government doesn't accept. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 4th Amendment of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 5. Amendment to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 6th Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments to MPs Peovic's three amendments, the first amendment is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Two, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 3rd amendment has been withdrawn so that we do not need to vote on it, but we will vote on the final proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. Please, let's vote. 127 MPs and MPs voted 76 for, 2 abstentions, 49 against and thus passed the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. First, the proposal to raise the issue of trust to William Berosh, the minister of health in the government of the Republic of Croatia, is proposing 32 MPs and representatives in HS, the debate is closed. But before we go to the vote, we have several requests for a break so far, the first colleague is Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118291	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, and I would like to point out once again that the other day we had the third recall of Minister Beros where we pointed out all the failures made by the minister. I will now point only to what one minister should be and what Minister Beros is not. One minister should first look at the benefits of our fellow citizens and then see that the system works. I ask you which of our fellow citizens is satisfied with the work in health care? The 900,000 who are still looking for a review, all those who are waiting for certain specialist reviews or some of the magnetic resonances, if it wasn't tragic it would be funny when you announce yourself, and then you get an appointment there at the end of 2023. Or maybe it's 2023. full, so it's already beginning in 2024, and about how Minister Beros managed to argue with the complete system it's not really anyone's hands yet, there's not a single association of doctors behind Minister Beros and it should be an alarm, it should be a sign, it should have been an indication to our prime minister that there really is something rotten in the system that absolutely can't work. Minister Beroš when he cannot solve the problem then solves it in a very simple way, which is to say that he will solve the doctors of family medicine, all his problems and his so-called so-called. The reforms will be resolved, and the way he acted in the case of Cavida is something that will remain in the annals of Croatian reality and corruption, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118292	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118293	I thank you on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club. I am looking for a 10-minute break to go through all the arguments and 12 points that we believe Minister Beros has reached the point where he has to submit political responsibility and leave his post as a minister. I will remind these 12 therefore catastrophic results of pandemic management, the lack of access to pregnancy at the request of one part of Croatian hospitals, the case of Cavida, the case of Ćorusic, the Medikol affair, the Cuspis affair, and the lack of prevention programs that lead to extremely high cancer mortality, centralisation and withdrawal of hospitals to regional self-government or the overall proposal for reform that does not support any stakeholders, the Road Safety Act against which all medical associations have rebelled, the strategy for developing investments in primary and secondary health care, the lack of emergency helicopter medical services, etc. But I want to use this pause to remind what context this recall is taking place in, in a context where the evening before Minister Maric resigns, in a context where the day following the recall of Beros, former HDZ Minister Tolusic's arrest is also of course due to corruption affairs, in a context where we also learn that Croatia is losing its dispute at the international arbitration court worth two billion kunas that will be paid by Croatian citizens for HDZ corruption, in a context where, as a cream at the end, we are coming from the theft of an iron building stolen by some prominent HDZ employee of Croatian roads, in a context where Kuščević from that first level of re-purpose land now comes to the level of investment in, in renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118294	Thank you very much, colleague Bencic, thank you very much, the break has been approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118295	It's a context in which it takes place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118296	Comrade Bencic, please, so please, let's stick to the line, now we're talking about order and now nothing again. Let's move on, Comrade Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118297	We are also looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes in order to point out once again to the Croatian public and to all colleagues and colleagues that this proposal from our colleagues on the recall of Minister Beros was incomplete, he explained from 7 points a number of legitimate reasons for the shift, but one of the most important, also extremely important, that reflects on the lives and health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not touch exactly the management of the crisis in the pandemic in such a way that they spent huge money, billions of kuna for the purchase of vaccines that did not get results. According to Halmed's statistics, 5 million 220 thousand people have been vaccinated in Croatia since 1 April 2022, and that group of people who have been vaccinated in search of health has been reported several hundred thousand by-products which are easier than 54 even for the loss of human lives, which we have not reflected in this report. This requires our attention, and we also need to open the topic because the vaccine and the phenomena it brings, by side, that vaccine against covid also deserves to be condemned by the ministry's conduct and the competent services, and, in that context, it is necessary to look at the acquisition, the potential purchase of a new 7 million doses of vaccines that we already have an excess of 13 million, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118298	The apartment is approved of course. Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118299	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to once again explain the position and position of our club regarding the request for the resignation of this minister and the way we vote. In fact, we will certainly be for the replacement of Minister Beros, but we did not sign a request for his resignation for one quite reason I would say the principled reason, that reason lies in the fact that we are above all extremely dissatisfied and we think that this is the real problem, the governing paradigm, so if we have a situation in this country that in the last six years. Ministers change as on tape, 25 people have left the government, if we have a situation that the ministers are boastful of us, that the ministers and full of us former ministers are full of prisons, if we have a situation that they prove their daily, their rather problematic ability to solve these citizens' problems, we could ask for the replacement of any minister in this government. That's why we're going to be for a shift, of course, but this is about something else entirely. We're not and we don't want it to remain an impression, Minister Beros is a problem for the system we'll change it and everything will be fine. That's the way we're actually clouding what's the essence of the problem. Two months ago, we asked parliamentary representatives 13 of us 7 from the post and 6 from the opposition to discuss health reform. State Secretary Dulubic told us to join the HDZ if you want to discuss health reform. Gentlemen, the problem is in this unbearable ease of identifying the state with HDZ or with any which other party. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118300	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118301	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club HSS and the Workers' Front. Respecting all the arguments made by colleague Bencic as well as other colleagues who sought a break, we also say in advance that we will vote in favour of impeachment, after all, we are one of the initiators of that. Everything, all the arguments that are stated stand absolutely and there are more. What concerns us most is one thing that is somehow put under the carpet through the media, which is what I personally thought would never happen in one Croatia in my country. It's an organ store. So in Croatia, in Zagreb, in the capital of our country, the EU is traded with the authorities, and that's what doctors or fellow doctors do, where more and more are calling for, or calling for, a conscience that I thought would happen in some third or fourth countries of India, Pakistan, so that I don't insult anyone in African countries in the middle of Zagreb. So in the middle of Zagreb, live persons who are not related to the one who is transplanted by the kidneys, therefore, from Serbia and Kosovo are transplanted. So, these kidneys were bought whatever anyone said, and one of the donors was, was a person who had several children from Kosovo and who, according to all the relevant papers that were available, was borderline intellectual abilities. So Minister Beros had to be responsible for the pig business, he didn't do anything, we still don't know the names of the doctors who did it, we don't know the names of the users, and that's something that doesn't happen in Croatia and that's why Minister Beros has to leave because of everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118302	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118303	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, but above all respected colleagues from the ruling majority, I ask for this pause to invite you, although I know that this appeal will not bear fruit to think with your own head and vote by conscience, and you will not do so. And today after this vote, you will once again boast how you defended Beroš as you once defended Kustević, as you defended Tolusic, as you defended Gabriela Žalac. And you'll all be proud today and say we've defended him. You'll say you failed, these demands are barren. But the fact that you defended the good soldier Beros will not change the situation in Croatian health care. The waiting lists will remain, the availability of healthcare will not increase. The appeal of conscience won't stop. Croatian women will not be guaranteed their rights. Loss in the health system will continue to accumulate between 400m and 500m kuna per month. The health system of the Republic of Croatia by defending the good soldier Beroš today will not be better, and people in Croatia will continue to live worse. And that's the reality of your actions. Your actions when you defended Tolusics, when you defended the Grill, when you defended Kustević, when you defended all those whose defense was indefensible. But your party grip was stronger than that every time. And you vote today however you like, but know what you're doing today, what you're doing all this time is hurting the citizens of this country, and it's up to you to evaluate how you'll live with it. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118304	The apartment is approved, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118305	I have reported for the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, and I will abuse that institution of course, such as the abuse of five MPs shortly before the debate when they pointed out the need to respect the Rules of Procedure, so they appeared in violation of the Rules of Procedure. This item of the agenda takes place in the context of the arrest in Istria, in the context of the inscriptions, the inscription on some wire fences in Vukovar, in the context of the historically low SDP rating, in the context of the smell of garbage and daily firing of pipes in Croatian metropolis in the context of President Social Democrats' announcement that [[Intruder: Thank you, Comrade Capula.]] that the talks about recruiting MPs... [[Intruder: Collar, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118306	Comrade Capula, Comrade Capula, please, you may finish your colleague, Capula. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know why you called in that way, you get a warning. Comrade Reiner, here you go, break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118307	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to draw attention once again to the fact that, in connection with the request for the recall of Minister Beros, we discussed here from 15.45 to 15-1 in the night, and that there was talk and talk about everything except those 8 points that the opposition put under quotes on the soul of Minister Beros. It was all about everything and everything else, but it wasn't about anything at all. I'm a little surprised. I must also say that I was surprised that during that debate of 32 MPs who signed that good part of the time there were only a few. At one point, at one time only four. Have others not been behind it, or do I not know? It was actually about everything and everything, not those eight points. So not 12. Apparently, colleagues who put up with it don't even know how many dots there are, and some people don't even know what it's really about when they're talking about organ trafficking. So they'd shut down a program of non-compromising donors. So let a little guidance be given in the matter and let them say it openly and deny the authorities to all those who have been receiving for years organs from non-compared donors as well as in the whole world, while also very clearly speaking about problems and some objective, financial problems that do not exist only during Beroš and do not exist only during Croatia. but to be dragged and read in the '80s what was written about health care. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118308	Comrade Reiner, thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118309	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter A colleague, or Mr. Vice President Reiner, demeans and insults all of us who have really worked with each other and do our job every day. So here we're many from half ten to deep into the night while the debate is going on so you're completely empty this one of yours, this your summation as many of us have been at any moment. There's always been more of us. That's the first thing. The other thing is, if you've been following anything from this position you've been sitting at, we've been going point-blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118310	Comrade Maric, time is up. You get a warning from your colleagues, Maric. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a pure replica. Here's my colleague, Beljak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118311	238th since I was personally called by Mr. Reiner. I didn't say I was against transplants. However, there are all praises for Croatian health care. But a colleague of Reiner's in Zagreb happened in an organ store. So someone who is borderline intellectually capable has several children from Kosovo to donate an organ to someone from Zagreb. It's a fact and it's a shame you're putting under the carpet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118312	You're getting a warning, you're replicating it. It also has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bartulica, here's a break of explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118313	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. You see doctors and nurses, other medical staff are not the reason why our health care is in this condition. And that's why the great failure of the minister to defend these people did not defend doctors who were under terrible pressure to appeal to their conscience. It's no coincidence they don't want to do certain procedures, and they rightly refuse to do so. However, he also came into the situation that he should defend family doctors from having to report patients to the police and so on. He didn't do it, and it's his big miss. However, once again I will appeal to the ruling to consider the practice that health managers instead of doctors and specialists run the system. In health care, decisions are made daily in Croatia on problems of financial nature. And he's certainly not professional and he's in difficult circumstances. I'll remind you of the overtrust this government had in SMS so-called. joint procurement on behalf of the EU as a whole. We are in a situation where we will remain with enormous amounts of vaccines that no one needs. Who's going to be responsible for that? Do we still know the exact amounts paid? We don't know. 30 billion kunas are not enough for public health, and our citizens still think that health care should be free. So, in that entire debate, Minister Beros did too little, and we have a lot of demagogy about why debt is being created. So, until we do. Introduces a market mechanism into the system we will spin in a vicious circle. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118314	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? Then we will comply with Article 293b. Keep going. And pursuant to Article 252. I would like to inform you that in order to make a decision on distrusting a member of the Government, a half majority of all MPs are required, so 76. I am now voting on the decision to show no confidence to Willy Berosch, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that 129 MPs and MPs voted, 51 were in favour, 78 were against, which means no decision was made on the non-confidential statement to William Berosh, the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Come on, please! [[Applause.]] I know you've made a mistake. ... Is HDZ guilty again? ... [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] Okay. [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] There's still a vote on how it is. You clearly said you didn't mean how you voted. It's clear to all of us. Okay. Let's move on. Proposal for a Animal Health Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 299, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Animal Health Act is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. 125 MPs and MPs voted, 87 for, 38 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118857	Thank you very much. We will now go to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Education and Education Agency, first reading, P.Z. No. 301; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Yes, Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak, please. Then we'll stop now, and this, on behalf of the IDS Club, was requested by the esteemed representative, Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118858	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, for the very proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, I request a break on behalf of the IDS of 10 minutes, and the addition of the Law on the Education and Education Agency. There is not much to add, it is 4 articles and it is understood that it is going to improve according to the time in which we live, but I would like to draw attention, but when the topic of education is two, three things. What is a chronic problem and I hope that all together as a society will succeed in this, it has begun to be a lack of quality teachers, teachers, less and less young quality professional staff who end their education come back to us in the system of education, not by their own fault, not perhaps by the guilt of all of us, or we are all actually equally responsible because of what they are motivated to do besides what they call it, what they want. The private sector has started to pay a lot more than the public. We need to seriously consider, especially with some professions, how you further stimulate our new young future professors. And not only their salaries but also the material and technical conditions they have in their workplace. And what's most important, if we've fallen a lot in recent years or decades, preschool teachers, teachers, classroom teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers, and teachers, high school teachers, they've always been one pillar, one foundation, one role model in society, and from the perspective of those of us who have experienced and respected them, they haven't fallen in their quality, but what we have done is that, I don't know, today parents and children know more than teachers themselves, I don't mean here on the first lady, to be, in fact, all of them, most often those parents who have the weakest school walking and explain to teachers how they should do their job. Here, I felt the need to distract and try. All together do something by that... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118859	Thank you. The apartment is approved. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We will continue to work so I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education Tomislav Paljak to give an additional explanation on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118860	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency, so allow me to give you the key reasons for launching the procedure for amending and supplementing the applicable law. The Law on the Education and Education Agency created a legal assumption for the establishment of the Agency for Education and Education, prescribed its activities and structure and other issues necessary for the implementation of the Agency's activities. The Agency's law enables professional and advisory activities in education and education, as well as monitoring, improving and developing education and education in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, adult education and training of children, Croatian citizens abroad and children abroad. Since the Law was passed in 2006 and has not been amended since then, it is not in line with certain positive legal regulations. Also, implementation of the Law has seen shortcomings that need to be corrected through amendments and additions to the Law. According to the current provisions of the Act, the Agency’s activities in monitoring, improving and developing education and education in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education are laid down, and the Law also provides for the work carried out by the Agency as its activities. In view of the fact that in its work, the Agency shall cooperate with the institutions responsible for education and scientific education and other educational institutions in the field of education and is not prescribed by the Law, the above-mentioned addition of the tasks carried out by the Agency in the course of its activities shall be proposed. Furthermore, the applicable Act prescribed the internal structure of the Agency in such a way as to establish departments and branches, and the work of the department is conducted by the Head of Department, or branch... branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By prescribing the Agency's internal structure, the Act slows down and makes its activities more difficult because it does not allow the Agency to make up its structure and adapt it in the best way to carry out its activities and activities. This proved to be inappropriate because it did not allow the Agency to form its structure and adapt it in accordance with the changed needs for the exercise of activities and jobs, and the proposed amendments and additions to the law are therefore prescribed to be governed by the Statute of the Agency and not by the law. The proposed proposal represents a more flexible and efficient solution, and will allow the Agency itself to make up its internal structure and adapt it in the best way to carry out tasks under its jurisdiction. It is also stated in the current legal framework that the Agency is managed by an administrative council with six members, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Science and Education with the aim of raising the quality of the Agency's management board system. Amendments and additions to the law suggest that the president and five members of the Agency's Governing Council are elected on the basis of a public call issued by the Ministry of Science and Education. This ensures transparency of the overall process and the availability of information to all relevant experts who wish to contribute to the work of the Governing Council and the Education and Education Agency. The composition of the Governing Council of the Agency has thus far not been in line with the Labour Act on the representation of workers, and therefore the proposed law provides for the selection of one member of the Governing Council as a representative of workers. In addition, provisions relating to the conditions to be met by a person for the Director of the Agency shall also be regulated. According to the current law, it is prescribed that the Director of the Agency must meet the conditions for senior advisors, i.e. that it must have the appropriate high level of expertise established by the General Act of the Agency and 7 years of working experience on educational and educational activities, as well as to fulfil other conditions laid down in the Statute or other general act of the Agency. Since the provisions on conditions for the selection of the Director of the Agency with regard to the appropriate level of education are not in line with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and are also intended to ensure and raise the quality of directors as management and expert head of the Agency. Amendments and additions to the law stipulates that the Director may be appointed as a person who has completed at least a graduate university study or integrated in front of a graduate and graduate university study, and at least 10 years of working experience in education or in scientific activities in the field of education and education. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the amendments and additions adopted by this bill will enable the Agency to form its internal structure and adapt it in the best way to carry out tasks under its jurisdiction. In addition, the composition of the Governing Council of the Agency will be brought into line with the Labour Act on Workers' Representatives and the way in which the Presidents and members of the Management Board of the Agency are elected on the basis of a public call issued by the Ministry of Science and Education. Also, the conditions for the selection of the director of the agency will be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and the quality of the director will be raised through the previously acquired work experience. I note that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources because they are also provided in the framework of the regular activities of the Ministry of Science and Education and the Education and Education Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118861	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. More colleagues came forward for replicas. Some even before you even got to the pay phone, but let's start in a row. The first is a respected representative of Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118862	Dear Assistant, can you please tell me how many people have left the Education and Education Agency in the last five years and how you explain this trend as well as why this law does not regulate the status of the agency as an educational institution and the rights and position of workers, but focuses exclusively on the director?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118863	Mr. Paljak is the secretary of state. He's no helper. Here you go, Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I have no record of how many people have left in the last five years. He can be taken out. The agency is a living body, people come and go, so we don't currently have that data. If you insist, we can deliver it to you in writing. The Agency, in its essence, is therefore bound by the Law on State and Public Authorities and Officials and is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation by its coefficients and would therefore have a different status of the Agency in collapsing if we had treated it as an educational institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118865	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118866	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The proposed amendments and additions to the law prescribes that the organisation of the Agency is governed by the Statute of the Agency, not as set out in the current Law on the Education and Education Agency. In fact, the regulation of the internal structure of the Agency is indeed slowing down and making it difficult to act, and I therefore believe that the proposed amendments to the law will allow the Agency itself to form its own internal structure and thus adapt it in the best way possible in the operational sense of its work and operations for which it is responsible. Also, what is important to highlight will be harmonised by the composition of the Governing Council with the Labour Act, and also by what is very important to highlight as far as members of the Board of Directors themselves are concerned, they will be chosen on the basis of a public call which will affect transparency. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118867	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118868	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've detected everything well. It is the Statute that will enable the speed and flow of the Agency's internal structure and that is one of the intensities of this law. As you said in the election of members of the Governing Council, it will no longer go exclusively on the proposal of the Minister, but it will go through a public call, and the alignment with the Labour Act assumes that one of the members of the Governing Council will be from the Council of Workers and therefore this law is amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118869	Dear representative Bedekovic. Excuse me, who's in line now? Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118870	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State Paljak, here you have said yourself that the intensity of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Education and Education Agency is primarily what the law dates back to 2006. It also showed that it is necessary to regulate the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia with other laws such as the Labour Act, but you also took advantage of the opportunity of a colleague Bedekovic to help the agency through internal arrangements, through the statutes which will certainly contribute to the senior advisers who are there to have their own coefficients, to have their profession, but you have also succeeded in making these changes and supplementing us into one part of transparency more, therefore precisely for the reason that the proposal will be made before the Government of the Republic of Croatia through a public call, and you have enabled workers to have their own member of the administrative council and certainly what needs to be welcomed and supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118871	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118872	Thank you very much. I have nothing to add now, exactly what you have stated and the intensity of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118873	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118874	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Yes, this law dates back to 2006 and it was time to make certain changes. My question is about the article. Article 2(2), i.e. 8th in the previous law, says the organisation of the agency is governed by this law and by the statute of the agency under this law. The Agency may establish branches and their activities shall be governed by the statute of the Agency. Is it possible now that the agency is setting up branches past the ministry, so does it have autonomy and authority because so far we have the agencies Split, Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek, is it possible that we will have more in other parts of Croatia, given the importance? That's where I think of Zadar first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118875	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118876	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, of course, but that flow between the ministry and the agency always goes into parallelism will continue. As regards co-operation on the establishment of a branch, it is not as such questionable, it was simply not explicitly stated in that cooperation in the law, and therefore we specifically state it here that we would have a foothold in the law of course and cooperation with other organisations, but also in other branches when there is a need in some space to establish itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118877	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118878	Here's the esteemed secretary. So, this law in some way brings some cosmetic changes that will ensure that you say the flow of the Agency's work, but what I asked you on the Committee on Science and Education, so when are you going to deal with the problems in that agency that the director was talking about and in the media some months or less ago, which states that employees themselves are looking for a deep reorganisation of the agency? In open competitions for new jobs you can't get anyone because the salaries are insufficient, so the salaries to counselors are less than the salaries of teachers they have to advise. You have a problem with the age of the staff, so from 117, it seems to me here from the media, 117 employees of 79 employees are over 50 years old, so they're threatening employee drains, and the new ones aren't coming. So when are you going to deal with the whole agency?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118879	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118880	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In this regard, these amendments to the law are also serious enough because the internal structure that can be regulated by the statute will allow, among other things, the agency to deal with and work, with its internal structure and, among other things, directly with the coefficients and the fact that these material receipts of those people for whom excellence is assumed in their work and who supervise those working in the education system so that these conditions are better. These amendments to the law will make it possible to achieve this, and that this flow in analogy with changes to the law in the NCV has proved to be good, I think it will also prove to be this law in the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118881	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118882	Your Honor, Secretary of State Paljak. I certainly welcome these amendments and additions of the law, however, I think it is necessary to highlight what the Education and Education Agency is really up to, and is a professional development, which is an organisation, which is an organisation, which is an organisation of expert meetings, training, promotions in the profession of counselors, mentors, experts, or excellent advisers, and the conduct of expert exams, etc. What I would also like to praise is the horizontal harmonisation of the law with the ZOR, with the Labour Act where a representative of the Administrative Council must be chosen from the worker's representative and I also welcome it and I think it is good that the president and members of the Administrative Council are chosen by a public invitation, and not as appointing or on a proposal from the Minister, so I certainly believe that these changes will lead to dynamization and in fact the speeds of action in accordance with the needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118883	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118884	Thank you very much. Yes, you've said that well, and it's good to repeat why the agency even exists, which is why this Education and Education Agency is extremely important. You've listed some of the key jobs she's dealing with, and in order for her to have her purpose to continue, of course, that legal assumptions have to happen, and you've heard that this law hasn't been changed since she was formed since 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118885	Honorable representative of the Voice and vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118886	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this law reminds me of an amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman for Children when a proposal was sent to this HS only to provide such opportunities in transitional and final provisions and to open the space for a lawyer to be replaced by a new Advocate or Advocate. My question to you is, with all the problems faced by the Agency for Education and Education, why did you not consider it appropriate for you to come to HS with one comprehensive content law that corresponds to the key problems that have been warned for years, rather than having decided on the only human law that you would open space to replace the administrative council immediately after the adoption of the law and appoint another, and that the board of directors who had not expired the mandate and that you would appoint another or other?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118887	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118888	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, of course I can't agree with you, nor is that the intensity of the amendments to these laws, because if that were the case, we wouldn't have to change it at all like not a single set since 2006 would have considered it appropriate to amend it here. The Administrative Council was elected in the second month of 2019, to them and thus to the beginning of 2023. Before that, the administrative council was elected even more directly, you know, on the proposal of the minister so that we wanted to form a body that would elect a new director we should not have changed this law. This law is in this very sense in line with the Labour Act and is much more transparent since it assumes a public call for participation in the work of these bodies you mention, therefore this insinuation does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118889	Dear Representative Voter has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118890	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt You demean all of us here MPs who know very well that this Labour Act, the latest amendments were passed in 2019, that you wanted this law to comply with the Labour Act, you had 3 years for this, we know very well because we are passing these laws and amendments and supplementing the law. So I ask you, Mr. President, Vice President HS, to protect our parliamentary deputies who are passing laws to demean us in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118891	Thank you very much. You know it's just like me, that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so... No, you can't answer anything, so you have to get a warning. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] This, a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118892	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, the agency that is today's debate is burdened with problems, and now in the replica, they can't take it all out. But frames such as memories, memories, mentions, mentioned, pardons, before definitely are. I, like my colleague, would have liked to have seen a more comprehensive proposal because I think this law should be adapted throughout a series of segments, not only in those that you have proposed, but my question and my debate would actually go for what is already here in some way and asked. Since we are also expanding our responsibilities or formalizing some of the links that already exist, there is a likelihood that the size of the agency's work will spread and not narrow down, so at least formally, these were some informal business and relationship that were informal. Is the agency human beings capacitated to be able to do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118893	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118894	Your Honor, yes, it has to be because otherwise there's no point in being at all. It is as it was formed in 2006, as it is imagined and as it works all these years of course it implements what it has created and it must continue to work and must be capacitated, among other things of course human and I think that these amendments of the law are going in that direction. What's happened in the last 3 years. And why isn't it passed, that I can't take that obligation on myself because I belong to an administration that doesn't even fill the 2nd century. It is not at the head of the ministry, and we are already bringing changes and changes of course. It is possible to discuss the whole document in the future, but that is, at this point, what we can do and what we want to do most effectively to make the agency work faster and better and more dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118895	Dear Representative Pavić, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118896	My dear secretary, if you think that only human policy is a problem in that agency, then you could change the personnel. You have now with this law in fact legalized that it changes in a different way. I don't think it's just a human problem all the time. Unless it's you from the ministry and the agency itself and the people who work at the agency so far after 16 years. The work realized what that agency should look like, to prescribe that structure into the laws that we know how much will be spent in that agency because the agency has problems in schools, don't forget, you know that very well. There are us here who worked in schools, we have home mates working in schools, and we know what the problems are, and now, instead of solving these problems, you didn't let the minister appoint four board members, you're going to appoint a new director, and everything will remain the same, and then the statute will be what, what will they write inside about the organization? We should talk here today about whether the organisation is good and whether the new organisation will allow the agency to implement its objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118897	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118898	Thank you very much. Your Honor, as opposed to this inaction since 2006 you can at least agree here and do it, and we do it, I repeat, because this law does not comply with a particular... the legal regulations and the fact that the shortcomings that can be seen in this amendment have been observed, this 4 articles significantly improve and raise quality or create assumptions that the agency is working faster, stronger and better. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we did, and what's not done, what we should still do okay about it we'll still talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118899	Dear Representative Pavić has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118900	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238. The secretary keeps saying things that don't stand. We don't know what we're voting on here, what that agency is going to look like, which is going to say in the new statute, which is going to be the difference between structures, we don't know anything about anything, so we're voting on a new law, and we're just going to change people, and the organization is nothing, zero, zero, zero, and right now it's wrong and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118901	Well, that was a replica, not a breach of the rules of procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. Dear Representative Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118902	Thank you. So this agency, with its hundreds of employees, has become one of those bodies that are their own purpose, this shows also the proposed amendments and additions to these laws. This agency deals more with itself than with issues it should deal with. The comments from the e-Consultation show a deep frustration of the entire system and this frustration is justified. Teachers are being pressured by controls and supervision, and the entire education system is actually being neglected. I believe that it is doubtful whether it is necessary to survive as an independent body in an existing form and whether the tasks of the alleged tasks can be organised in a more rational and efficient way. In order for the agency to have its own justification and purpose, it should be deeply reformed, and clearly for such reforms, this political structure has neither knowledge nor will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118903	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118904	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. I cannot agree, of course, that one body is an agency that performs professional training, which performs the work and supervision of teaching in calling, which works on professional exams, which does professional meetings from early and preschool education to high school, which produces and conducts curricula, which conducts professional pedagogical supervision, which gives opinions on programmes and in early and preschool education and education in primary and secondary schools and simply cannot be considered as a sole purpose, so I think we have more than enough reasons why the agency must survive and work, of course. We can always discuss quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118905	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, respected president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118906	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, honourable state secretary, respected Madam Director of the Education and Education Administration at the Ministry of Science and Education, respected both colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education Agency in the first reading of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has been discussed at its 42nd session and in accordance with Article. The 98th Rules of Procedure of the HS in the capacity of the home working body. And after an introductory explanation submitted by the proposing representative, in which he explained the intensity of this bill, which complements the tasks of the Agency's competence and regulates the internal structure as well as the way the Director was appointed, and to which he explained the importance and complexity of the activities carried out by the Education and Education Agency. The debate really highlights the agency's role in the education and education system, stresses the importance of allowing the agency itself to form its internal structure and adapt it in the best possible way to carry out tasks under its jurisdiction, in such a way as to make it possible and optimise the work of the agency itself and influence its operationality. The importance of harmonising the composition of the Governing Council with the Labour Law on Workers' Representatives is also highlighted, as is the way in which members and presidents of the Governing Council will be elected to these amendments and additions on the basis of a public tender, and not so far on the proposal of the Registrar Minister, which will certainly contribute to the transparency of the work of the Agency itself. However, the Committee also highlights the opinion of individual members that the concept of law should be more comprehensive, and also points out some objections not to art. 5 proposals governing transitional and final provisions. And after the debate was held, most of the votes were adopted by the Committee by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education Agency, and, of course, all objections and proposals and opinions will be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118907	Thank you. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will be spoken by a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118908	First of all, I want to look at two things that are already said here in replicas, and we have a lot to say about the activity of the agency itself or the ignorance of what its activity should be, and then the need to improve or expand the scope of the Agency's activities in accordance with the legal provisions. My first question, or replica, which I referred to the secretary of state, concerns the problem of leaving people from the system, leaving people from the agency. I got an answer that people come and go. Indeed, that is not the answer that is appropriate for a secretary of state who must know the situation in his system, and the figures from, I will be very specific, I have asked about the last five years where in one agency that has just over 100 employees, 30 people from the system, so a third, a quarter of the people in the system talk very much about the state of the agency. And that's what we need first of all to serve the minister or assistant minister, and then give an explanation of what's going on, why people are leaving. In my presentation I will try to offer a possible explanation. The other thing that concerns this law is the question of what the agency should do in the first place. On the one hand, we could hear colleague Oreskovic thinking that the agency could also shut down, which I disagree with. The Agency should start to carry out its primary activity in accordance with the overall scope prescribed by the law, and then it will have a very good sense. But we could hear even more from the replica of my colleague Buric a fundamental misunderstanding of what all agencies should do, which is actually the cause of as many as 284 comments from teachers and teachers and one 30 comments from consultants within the public consultation and this bill proposal and who are dissatisfied with the way the agency works. So, when a colleague Buric tried to explain to us what the agency was up to, she focused first and foremost on what the agency had come down to, which is professional assistance, the organisation of professional trainings, meetings and the giving of titles to teachers, which we know as the work of the agency, however, it is not the only thing the agency should do. The Agency is indeed in practice, although it is not recognised in the law, and then in the salaries of employees it works as an educational institution and it should monitor national curricula, participate under the law in force. 4. to participate in the development and development of the implementation of the national curricula, to provide professional assistance and to provide guidance to institutions, their directors, educators, teachers, teachers, etc. in the implementation of the activities of education and education. Therefore, the agency must actively participate in education processes, help teachers in their activities, see what happens to these curricula, improve the system of education. The Agency does not do so at present, it serves more as a supervisor and as one who assigns titles to teachers when turning to counselors or more advisers. In this respect, its scope of action is not fully respected in accordance with the legal provisions. But at the same time, although it does not participate in the process when expert opinions are needed, and at the moment we are also following an affair about how schools worked, assigned grades and subsequently concluded, a high school in the city of Zagreb, and then an expert opinion is expected from the agency. Then these people in the agency are not only public employees as a public institution as it is now defined and what they want to leave but they suddenly become experts and must be experts in certain fields of mathematics, physics, Croatian language or any other way to give their opinion. So, they're asked for an expert opinion, but when we talk about their salaries, they don't have the odds that they're following it, which is why we're in a paradoxical situation today that the agency's employees have less salaries than the ones they decide on, so from the teachers themselves in schools, which is why we have a big exit of the system. Who wants to work at an agency where his expertise is not respected? And then we have the overload of the remaining agency employees who want to get out of the system again, and that's how we spin around in a vicious circle, which is no good at all. So the key question is what do you do? When we talk about art. 1. these amendments and additions to the law should introduce a second chapter that will regulate the status and activity of the Agency and respect the status of the Agency as an educational institution, as well as the status of its staff as educational and educational staff. Second, when we're talking about Art. 2. these amendments and additions shall not be subject to the organisation of the Agency by the statute of the Agency if it is to be designated by the Administrative Council, because it does not contain experts. We know what people are named and here the administrative council is defined, so they don't necessarily have to be experts. These are people who are politically determined to be in those places. Therefore, one who will determine the structure, the activity of the agency, hence the systematization of jobs and everything else, should be one professional independent body which would consist, for example, of workers who have been in the system for a number of years and who are the best because of their knowledge, experience, research, etc. they know the activities of the Agency and can determine how it should function in the future. What's good within this bill that finally respected the year-old application of workers is that in art. 3. one member of the Governing Council may be elected in accordance with the general rules governing the work or finally having a member of the Management Board of Agency Workers. When we talk about the director of the agency himself, it is not some change in the situation so far, however, the question is why the conditions for the director are changing and it is not being considered and it does not change in line with what I have previously stated and the conditions for the employees themselves. If we are currently in a situation to question, for example, the results of national exams and we are not satisfied with them, the question arises why is that? Don't they run curiculas? Is there any discrepancy in the work of individual schools compared to understanding these same curricula? But who's going to decide? This can only be done by agency employees who are regarded as educational and educational workers, suitable for which it is not acceptable for such changes to the law not to require additional costs in the budget because if we really valorise the work of employees in accordance with that education that they should act under the law then they need at least four additional ones so that they can be paid and their position respected as well as in some other institutions that concern education in the Republic of Croatia, such as the NCVO. The law should resolve the status of the agency not as a public institution but as an educational institution. If the Agency is to be a public institution, it is not up to advisers to be placed in the position of experts but only by supervisors. If we're talking about the problem of leaving, then we really need to see what's going on with the workers, why don't we report new people to jobs, why so many people leave, and also think about even the positional calls within the agency because right now in the agency that has some 115 employees we have 15 positions, so we're coming up with a situation that we have people who do practically two jobs, they're also senior advisors and department heads, so the question is whether or not they're two working contracts at the same time. Why is it not possible for the Agency to play a legal role in the content and improvement of education and education? This would certainly improve our educational education system because they work only on call today, not following educational curricula, are focused on professional exams, promotions, supervision and education, which is only part of their activities. Finally, we should not only deal with directors but also with the position of workers, and I will remind you once again that senior advisors are lagging behind salaries for those in schools, which is why they are leaving the system. This is a problem for all of us, it's not just the agency because the bad results of national exams show that the exams are one, the reality of the school is another, and that we don't have those who will follow it and potentially change why we need cooperation within the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118909	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary with the director of the administration, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the Education and Education Agency is a legal follower of the Department of Education. At the time of his existence, the Institute of Education respected or enjoyed a special status, and even I will say it with respect and awe throughout the system of education and education. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the Education and Education Agency has been since 2006. to this day, in some way, it is very weak and we have failed to strengthen it in all possible ways in order for it to truly fulfill the key, one of the key roles that it has in the system of education and education, and I am not at all interested in discussing the reason for its existence. In the assembly, we held such a debate when the assembly discussed the programme of the then potential prime minister and members of the government, Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, in those late nights, and we saw this argument, or document, program, the night before which it made it very clear that a full curricula reform should be stopped, but that there should be consideration of the reorganisation of certain agencies and public institutions in the system of education and education. This fortunately did not go away at the time because it came across strong resistance not only from opposition representatives but also from members of the bridge's representatives who were part of the ruling coalition, apparently did not get a good look at the programme with which HS would be represented and it is good that it did not happen. The Education and Education Agency should be strengthened because it is extremely important to carry out professional and advisory activities in education and education, to participate in monitoring, improving and developing education and education in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education systems, but also to educate Croatian citizens and children of Croatian citizens abroad and children of foreign, foreign citizens. At this point, the Agency has branches in Split, Rijeka and Osijek, so it is completely unclear to me why, in one of the reasons of this law, it is said that, one of the reasons why these amendments and additions are being adopted or proposed, so that it could be done on the internal structure, but also on the establishment of so-called. branch. This law does not simply defend the existing because it is defined as having branches in these three cities, but that it can establish the same branches in other parts of Croatia if necessary. Secondly, I really don't understand when you say in an explanation that through this law you will comply with working legal documents, in particular the Labour Act, where the Governing Council will ensure that one employee representative participates in it and there is nothing controversial about it, but what is controversial is that this Labour Act and that provision and these positive regulations have been in place for many years now. If we look at when the last amendment to the Labour Act was passed, it was 2019. Although I think that even then it is not defined but that it has already been defined before then I am right to wonder what you have been waiting for with the amendment in that sense of the law so far, why you need 3 years for it, so it is a simple item, not even an article, but an item of the law, and we have had in the parliamentary procedure and much less changes and additions to the law, so that no one would question you that such a proposal went right away when the pre-conditions were created, and in some way also an indication of how the administrative council should look. I will point out, a year and a few days ago, you changed the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, where, among other things, you were changing this item, and I told you in the debate what you were waiting for with other agencies. I think they still exist in the system of exactly the agency, in a system of education and education where you have not yet included this item and where workers do not have the right to participate and be members of the administrative council. I ask what's waiting, is there a right moment waiting? And that's why we're coming to that key question of mine, why is this law right now and what's its purpose? I think the reason why this law was passed is the same one that was presented in the assembly a few years ago when we changed the Law on the Ombudsman for children where the key to amending these laws and the main intention of then the government as a proposing was that, in the transitional and final provisions, it was said that after the law entered into force, the adoption of the law could make human changes. And I think, unfortunately, that's the key reason for this law to be passed through the transitional, you have the insight that the Dalmatians would say, that you're changing something here a little bit now, that in fact in the transitional and final provisions you'd say ok, now that we've changed the law in the transitional and final provisions we're going to comply with the statute, but we're not going to miss the chance to prescribe that a new administrative council will be elected within 30 days, and that this newly elected administrative council is going to call for the principal and we're going to choose the new director, because that article of the law doesn't have to be there at all. We had laws and even the NCVVO when we were changing here, we were also changing the conditions for the selection of the Governing Council, and it was nice there in the transitional and final provisions that said that the members of the board of directors, after the adoption of the law, continued to act on their mandate until the end of the term of office until the end of the term of office of four years, and so it was supposed to be here as well. But for some reason, it's because it wants to change the board of directors so that the board of directors or directors chooses them. That's not smart. With all the problems that the Agency for Education and Education is facing, with all the changes and additions of structural comprehensive that you should have come here before us in front of HS, you have come with this one small, small partial political classic maybe and of course party interest to give you the blessing that you can make human change. And why I'm saying you haven't thought about the content at all and the agency. In the light of the law you're saying you're supplementing the article, that one more thing before I go to it. You forgot to prescribe with the Governing Council the conditions under which the term of office of members of the Governing Council ceases and before the end of the term of office, which is normal to be defined in all the laws and is defined now and in force, means there are some objective conditions where the term of office of a member of the Governing Council or of one or that or of a request for resolution or certain things which does not satisfy the law to be resolved and before the end of the term of office, there is no such thing you have disturbed with your mind. And now I'm going back to being. So how sloppyly this law has been written, it's disastrous that it wasn't really taking care of the agency at all, but just that we're changing the board better under the law, and then the principal is telling you that you're changing the tasks of the Education and Education Agency where you're filling them, you're supplementing me as it is. 4 of the current section 3. in carrying out the Agency's activities and now says it participates in the design and development of the implementation of the national curricula blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you cooperate with other institutions in the education system, so it is already doing so, but do not worry at all that in the meantime that the Law on Education and Education has changed, that we have a framework of national curricula, 20-and-a-half lower-ranked curricula, which is national for specific areas of education and that it should actually be the activity of the Agency and that it should be prescribed by law. So please be serious and make comprehensive changes by the second reading, and the first point should be this one for you. 4th century 3 is not sufficiently complete in accordance with the new circumstances, it should simply be changed and written new. Therefore, there is no reason why we should support this law, so we will vote against it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118911	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Damir Bakic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118912	Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law is very simple, it is so simple that on the eye it seems impossible to find any problem in it, and the problem is that this law is too simple because it solves some administrative issues in the Education and Education Agency, and it doesn't say anything about its work, about the delirious, about the promotion and the role the agency has or should have in our education system. Namely, the Education and Education Agency is the central institution of the system for supporting pre-tertial education and education, while it is also under-capacitated when it comes to the number of people and expertise. It's part of the financial cause. In fact, work at the agency requires expertise, experience, but also some kind of professional not institutional but real, content professional authority. In other words, the agency should hire the best people in school for senior or only advisors, but the salary it can offer is much less than they have at school. Since it is about colleagues and colleagues who are 15 or 20 years old and who are most often in the status of teaching counselors, colleagues before me also spoke about it. The agency also has a number of external associates, so people who are not employed in it do the job of consultants but their status is extremely discouraging, leading to great fluctuations. In addition to all this, the agency has too few advisors and advisers, which is especially visible if this is compared to the Slovenian Institute of Joy, which is much better teamed and covers a double less educated system. Two key functions of the Education and Education Agency. One is supporting the continued professional development of teachers provided by the agency through various types of professional gatherings. Some of them are excellent, some are mediocre, some may be completely useless. But it's about... activities that do not have any common strategic focus resulting from the development needs of the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Similarly, it would be particularly important for the Agency to establish continued cooperation with universities, especially those which educate future teachers with scientific institutes, professional associations and civil society associations, and individual experts in the concept of targeted training programmes. Through this cooperation, software packages consisting of curricula and working materials should be created and then educated and licensed by educational groups that will then be able to provide further quality education of educational or educational workers at different levels from national to county, professional councils. It seems, however, that the professional training of teachers is currently going completely mechanically and routinely without knowing the strategic goal of waving through one-time professional gatherings intended for teachers or teachers of individual subjects. However, there is a much worse situation in the area of what should be the second key function of the Education and Education Agency, which is a professional, advisory support for educational and educational institutions in the development of effective practice. There's nothing going on here. While it is not possible to increase the development potential of educational institutions without such support, it is crucial to improve the quality of education. Agency advisors come to schools only when sent to expert-pedagogical supervision, but never to help schools improve their work. In short, the agency has advisers whose title is entirely administrative and who are not in the job description to advise anyone. The agency is very far from school. Central and three branches in Rijeka, Osijek and Split cover very large areas, and communication with schools is rather an exception than a rule. By the way, the school office has nine district units on almost three times smaller territory just to get closer to schools. In addition, this type of institution is in other European countries not only to ensure quality but also to promote innovation and change in the system. They have, and institutions have fast and continuous two-way communication with practice, but also all other stakeholders and almost on a weekly basis offer materials and project opportunities for practitioners. These institutions are actually a channel of introducing dynamic changes in otherwise by nature of things to three educational systems. If we want to introduce any more serious innovation into the education system or talk about quality assurance, I think it is essential to work on a change in the Agency's work. An additional problem is that for such professional advisory support agencies there is no professional capacity either. And here, perhaps, is the root of all problems, because the agency does not have any expert advice, any body composed of experts that would help the strategic definition of the Education and Education Agency. There is no more serious network of permanent external associates that could compensate for the lack of expertise. After all, the agency’s advisers spend much of their working hours on full-time administrative tasks instead of on those professional ones. The Agency should therefore undergo serious functional transformation and capacity building. That's what we should talk about, and that's what we should talk about today. That is why I call on our educational authorities to open this debate as soon as possible and help the agency strengthen and advance its action, and we are ready to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118913	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Rade Simicevic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118914	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with the Director, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education Agency. This is not a work report, and I think if we were to talk about the report then we would actually lose the meaning of this debate because it's about amending the law. I may be the freshest person to come out of the education and education system, and I know that it's not easy for people who work at the agency to find it extremely difficult. But listen, times change. I hope that we'll change according to that, because I know when I went to school, that my late mom didn't think to come to school looking for anything, but for everything that happened at school, I was responsible. So if we all did our job as prescribed, then I think that the system and education would be even better, even though I have to say that from what I know that the system of education and education may be the best segment of society we have because they work there extremely hardworking and dedicated people. They haven't been paid enough, but lately the salary has increased so much that I can be satisfied right now and I say in this situation where we are if everyone does their job then we'll get the goal. So now I'm going back here to this agency law dating back to 2006. And he never changed until then. To address these shortcomings, it is necessary to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on the Education and Education Agency, which will ensure faster and more effective regulation of the internal structure of the Agency, not as before by law. Article 2 One, so this is old art. 4. The law prescribes the activity of the Agency which performs professional and advisory tasks in education and education. The Agency participates in the monitoring, promotion, development of education and education in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, adult education, and education of children of Croatian citizens abroad and children of foreign citizens. The Agency shall carry out the following activities so that it is not, it does not mean unknown what the Agency is doing, and the Agency is doing really complex and responsible tasks, so it participates in the design, development and implementation of national curricula, providing professional assistance and giving instructions to directors, teachers, teachers and professional associates in... The activities of education and education shall be organised and carried out by the professional training of educational professionals and directors, carried out professional examinations for educational staff according to specific regulations, carried out by professional advances for educational and educational professionals and directors according to specific regulations, gave an opinion on programmes in pre-school education, pre-school curriculums in primary schools and high schools, public education programmes and vocational education programmes, and in adult education programmes unless the specific regulations are different. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency shall also give an opinion on the educational programmes of the general education programmes in the verification process of educational institutions, monitor and implement the Croatian national educational standard as part of the national curricula, carry out professional pedagogical supervision, participate in the organisation and conduct of teaching evaluations of competitions, participate in the design and monitoring of national programmes, carry out information, documentation and publishing activities and sub-assemblies, which it has added, cooperates with other educational institutions, as well as scientific, educational and other educational institutions in the field of education. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. means Art. The 8th reads, is changed and said, the organisation of the agency is governed by this law and by the statute of the Agency in The Agency may establish branches and their activities shall be governed by the statute of the Agency. So far, the internal structure of the agency has been prescribed by law, and it has slowed down and made it difficult for the agency to form its structure, now the organisation of the agency is prescribed by the statute. In addition to those amendments and additions to the law, the appointment and resolution of members of the Governing Council with the Labour Act shall be coordinated in a way that a member is elected as a representative of the worker. It is also prescribed that the selection of members of the Governing Council appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is carried out on the basis of a public call issued by the Ministry of Science and Education. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 3rd, Art. 9. it is also said that the Agency is managed by the administrative board of presidents and 6 members, one member of the board of directors of the Agency's staff is elected in accordance with the general rules governing working relations, 5 members and presidents are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the order of prominent educational workers and experts on the proposal of the Minister, and on the basis of a public call issued by the Ministry. The Presidents and members of the Governing Council shall be appointed to the 4th year. The legal provisions also harmonize the conditions for the selection of the director of the agency with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Classification Framework. And in art. 4th, Art. 1st century 2 is changed and it is said that, for the director of the agency, a person who meets the following conditions may be appointed, completed at least a graduate university study, an integrated graduate, graduate university study, namely 10.g. work experience in education and in scientific activities in the field of education and education. The Director shall be the Management and Expert Head of the Agency, the Director shall be appointed on the basis of a public tender for a period of 4g. with the fact that we were able to think about the director being appointed to the 5th year. as it is in the system of education and education. The Director shall be appointed and resolved by the Administrative Board, the appointment and resolution procedure of the Director shall be arranged and drawn closer to the Statute of the Agency. Finally, the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education Agency does not require additional financial resources, the means of implementation shall be provided in the framework of the regular activities of the Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency for Education and Education. And Art. 5, Art. 5. It actually regulates transitional and final provisions. From all of this clear to the faith that the adoption of this law will improve and improve work, that people will stay in the agency, that they will be well paid for their work which is extremely demanding, given that the system of education is increasingly complex and demanding and that we really need to have complete educational and people who are willing to deal with all the problems. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education Agency, and include possible proposals in the law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118915	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118916	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we've heard one very deep, intense and content dissection of all 11 articles of the new law. But we've heard a little bit about what I'm really interested in. So this is the Agency that's burdened with problems. But the problems, unfortunately, are burdened by the whole system of education and there may be a thing, the only thing I would agree with the previous speaker, and that's enthusiasm and the work of the people who work in that system because if it wasn't for him, that system would have gone a long time ago not to say where, damn it. But if there weren't those dedicated people, surely that system wouldn't be, and unfortunately, it's actually unfortunate that we have to rely on someone's enthusiasm, on someone's love for work, just to be paid. Because if we're going to talk about salary increases, colleagues and colleagues, then wild inflation. And no increase unfortunately has been able to compensate, if your inflation, your real inflation is 11% and your wages are up 3%, so count on how much pay went up. But I would like to see a much more comprehensive and more concrete proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency and not just about it. I'd like to talk to you about a more extensive and thorough reform of the education system in this House for a reasonable period of time because if we say that the Agency is burdened with problems, it is. But why? Indirectly or directly because the system is burdened with problems. Because the system is a trom, because the system often does not have the strength to respond to some of the challenges that modern times put before it. Because, unfortunately, we're human beings. A lot of colleagues and colleagues have been talking about what this is all about, and I still think today, unlike my colleagues from HDZ, that teachers, teachers and teachers are underpaid, but I'm not talking about the Agency. So the people who should be watching them, who should be their incentive, who should educate them and question them, have less pay than the ones they do it to. So, the situation is tragically oxymoronic, almost all the way to the Allanford kind. So that's one segment of the problem. The second segment of the problem is unfortunately the inadequacy of our education system to the demands of time. I'm afraid that our educational, educational, actually system has lost that, that educational component, that it's gone, it's long gone, and that education system is not at the level of what it's supposed to be. First of all, I don't think it gives our young citizens the knowledge and skills they need in the modern world, we want to talk about civic education, sexual education, many other new knowledge from science and changing actually the situation both in the labour market and in general in science. It's on the one hand, and it's on the other hand, we're putting too much pressure on some things they certainly won't need. Theoretical knowledge, and knowledge and skills they won't need if they don't decide on specific professions. More guidance on students and more encouraging students should certainly be a priority, but I don’t know how it can channel and encourage an Agency that has very internal problems and which well maintains the system as it is or is. He's been working a lot of times after the inert itself. And yet, when we talk about the relationship of the labour market and.../incomprehensible/... of our modern system, unfortunately we continue to hyperproduce surplus occupations, and the deficit is not something that we need to imagine very much because I think in the end that it is also in the student's interest to study for, go to schools for occupations that, of which they will be able to live and which they will be able to work with. Here's just one piece of information. So according to the information available, the economy is chronically lacking qualified construction workers, not only builders, carpenters, armyers, welders, facilitators, butchers, roofers and insulators, but also some professional interests that require a little more finer work, such as plumbers, electro-installers, carpenters, locksmiths, locksmiths, painters, painters, wallpaper, glassers, sub-depositors, ceramics, loaders, heating installers, air conditioning, dry construction motifs, toolmakers, builders, truck drivers, etc., etc., etc., etc. These are all the occupations we have to import at the moment. Also in the maintenance and repair activities of motor vehicles, there are chronic shortages of car mechanics, but autoelectricists, auto-laquirers, auto-laquirers, in the processing industry of machinery and tokara, CNC operators, butchers, bakers, pastries, etc., etc., etc. The last of the above are also missing in the activities of preparing and serving food together with chefs and waiters, therefore pastries. On the contrary, we have a lot on the market, commercialists, business secretaries, administrative references, fashion technicians, graphic technicians, veterinary technicians, hotel and tourist technicians, etc., etc., etc., when we talk here about secondary education. While we're burdening ourselves with these problems, until we've actually put our system on some healthy ground, I'm afraid that with such cosmetic changes that obviously concern only when some possible human resources and personneling within the Agency itself, I think it's almost gratuitous. I think it's a waste of our time, our colleagues and colleagues, all together. It is clear that from time to time we need to modernise the laws of education, the more practice shows you that some things don't work, some things work better, some worse, some of them need changes, but I don't see it here. All the changes I see are about appointments, political decisions, i.e. the Governing Council and so on. So I think it would be a lot more opportunistic if the ministry had come forward with some comprehensive proposal, not with a proposal for a new 11-point law that I say deals with most of these staff issues. However, the Education and Education Agency should be an upgrade of the system or supporter of the system, but we, while we have a bad system and until we change the system, can change the agency as much as we want. Of course, there are also staff issues in the agency lack of experts, and unfortunately the teaching profession, teaching becomes less attractive, not only for the sake of finance, because if only the finances were doing so would probably be done by no one but because of the fact that now parents and children as someone mentioned in this speaker know more than teachers and teachers, and you can see the interest of colleagues from HDZ, only a colleague here is present here, vice president of HS. But, well, we're only talking about the future of our children, so nothing radical. So we at the Social Democrats Club believe that the proposal that was to be found before us should have been much more comprehensive, that it should have been in the introduction of a debate on the reform of the entire schooling, so we're doing this little bit more literally, and the caravans are going forward, nothing else is going to happen or our system is going to improve, and the agency is going to do better than there's going to be someone sitting in the principal's chair maybe a little faster and easier than it would normally be under the law that's in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118917	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118918	I thank the chairman. Dear secretary, dear colleagues of the three of us, four and five, here comes the number. So here are the amendments and additions to the Law on the Education and Education Agency, so the Education and Education Agency, which is not actually in the system of education and education. The current law prescribes activity, prescribes the organisation of the agency and other issues necessary to carry out the activities of the Agency, which are therefore the main activity of professional advisory activities in education and education, monitoring and improving the development of education and education in pre-school, primary, secondary education and education, adult education and the education of children of Croatian citizens abroad and children of foreign citizens. So, this agency is a fundamental institution to monitor the work of teachers and teachers, education to act in problem cases in schools, activities include the implementation of school competitions, such as LiDraNa and similar events. The current law dates back to 2006. It hasn't been changed since then, it's not in accordance with the law, and some of the shortcomings that this law has begun to correct have been observed in the implementation, and here are some of the cosmetic changes here before us. Therefore, it is proposed that the internal organisation of the Agency be defined in the statutes of the Agency, not in this law, the addition of the tasks carried out by the Agency, the composition of the Governing Council is harmonised with the provisions of the Labour Act and the provisions relating to the terms and conditions for the Director of the Agency are further regulated, so this is from the amendments and addition of this law. In the consultation on the proposal for these amendments and the additions, there were about 300 remarks which do not deal with these amendments and additions, but are in fact warning of serious problems in the agency that have not actually been touched by this law in these amendments. As I have also asked here and in the replica on the Secretary of State, so when are they actually going to go into a more serious solution to all these problems that have been discussed by some colleagues before me, which are mentioned in these numerous remarks. I don't know, when it came to order this was an emergency, as Mr. Secretary of State said today that these changes are very necessary in order to be more serious about the serious organisational problems within the agency. We kind of doubt that. So, the more urgent it can be that the agency is crying out for employees, no one wants to go to the counselors. Advisers to the Education and Education Agency have a truly responsible function, however they are not paid in accordance with the work they do, advise, monitor, promote, evaluate, value the work of teachers, teachers, but they are paid less than they are, which is actually inappropriate and is not in line with the jobs they perform. In particular, the pay gap has bounced off the changes in school pay increases in 2020, the agency's advisers have the status of public servants, which is why they are not being subject to an increase as education workers have been given. We asked here some of the colleagues so how many agency employees have gone over the past period, so it's said here people are leaving-coming, the problem is that people are leaving, and they're not coming. So, here's a report from the media a month ago in the last two years, 20 employees left, among them many expert advisors. We see that employees are constantly complaining that they do not have the possibility of professional training within the agency, looking for a reorganisation of the agency in which 15 bosses are currently saying that there are more than 100 employees, they are not allowed, for example, to improve abroad, but only through Carnet's project and school. One of the problems here recently and you could find this in the media, with LiDraNo review of literary creation which ended on April 29th, the agency with external associates had not yet concluded a contract for a job that was carried out in March and April. So, you're constantly having some issues with the organization, the agency's work. So, here's a state-owned agency sending associates to work without a signed contract. What's actually going on in practice and on a regular basis. So some teachers may even want to work at the agency, want to oversee the work of teachers, colleagues, teachers, and move from some educational institution to the agency. However, after facing the Agency's working conditions after a few months, they return to their organisation, or apply for the competition to the job they left. At the agency, here's from the same article in the media right now, 117 employees, as I warned in the replica. 79 employees are 50 years old and older. It therefore points to the risk that in the coming years the release of professional staff will be continuous. So here we go every year, for the last few years, pensioners are leaving, but new employees are gone. So, if it's going to shut down the agency, is it going down the volume of work or what? So, what's the plan to stop this trend. I'm going to read here so I don't repeat some of the things my colleagues said before, I'm going to read one comment from a public consultation that might be here to sum up all these problems. Says the Education and Education Agency has a history of more than 150 years, so in the name of the name it contains education and education. I believe that colleagues at school mean that senior advisors are part of the education system, and this has not been the case for a long time. Senior consultants deal with perplex jobs, organise expert meetings, educate fellow teachers, teachers, professional associates, directors, organize competitions, conduct promotions in calling, professional advisory insights, and expert pedagogical supervisions, write expert opinions, programs, coordinate with the work of the head of county expert councils, workers are both in the office full-time and in the field doing the job of a driver who is very often stressful, and influences the exhaustion of the body. All these jobs can be done by a person who is a professional and an expert. Senior advisors in the agency come from teaching and permanently during this work follow and improve their teaching classes, stay in class colleagues by giving them professional college support and thus affecting the education and education system as a whole. It is therefore very important to return this one-and-a-half-century institution to a place where it belongs to the education system. It is absolutely important to act on the principle of justice, and to give senior advisors an appropriate coefficient higher than the excellent consultant they promote to the highest calling in the profession, i.e. that the salary of a senior advisor is still a little higher than the salary of the most advanced persons in the system that value and promote. In this regard, here is the proposal for a change of job name senior advisor to senior expert consultant specialist and, if we want to be a knowledge society, it is important to regulate the status of employees of such an important institution in the educational infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia. So, a lot of problems in this agency, all over her organization, in people who are leaving more and more and they're not coming. So it's not that normal kind of fluctuation of people. Even here are a third of the people in the past time who have left, and few or nothing have come. And that's what this law is about, what we expected to actually get out of this law that it's going to deal with, and it's not here. Well, here's hoping that by the second reading, something might change, improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118919	Thank you. We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118920	Thank you very much, Vice President. A few words and an individual discussion. In fact, what my colleague Puljak was saying might be the most indicative if we were talking about this agency, which is a lack of personnel, there is no fluctuation, or the personnel are leaving and they're not coming, and I can say that this applies in an indirect manner to the ministry. And people who should be monitored by the guidance system to support schools, teachers and teachers are often either too old or unmotivated or, as counterpart Puljak said, watch how to get out of the system, because the system is terribly underpaid. And if he says you have to oversee the work, you have to give instructions to teachers, you have to organize competitions, you have to conduct professional exams. So you're expected to be the best in the system. By some logic, it should be the best teachers, the best teachers with many years of practice who can actively help those in the system, so give them advice, direct them, enlarge their work. However, this is not the most common situation. You have people, of course, that I'm not wrong about the soul in the system that's great, but that's usually in the system because they have no choice anymore, or I can't go back to their teaching positions. And it's actually that, in that it's summed up the whole absurdity of maybe our system when those who should be supervised are actually least paid and somehow least appreciated. And their wages like my colleague Puljak said didn't grow. And that doesn't really surprise the personnel deficit the agency has. And here we can discuss the law that I said changes 11 articles. Most of them refer to staff issues, and that is to the Agency's management, not the core issues of the agency's survival. But what will change that at the end of the day? Nothing. Like I said, I guess it'll just help someone sit in the principal's chair before or in the board chair, and that's all. Nothing else will change, the caravans will pass, the dogs will bark, we'll argue here but everything will remain the same. If it'll improve the agency's work, I'm sure it won't. Will that improve the status of the Agency's employees? I'm sure he won't. Will that ultimately help the system? Well, I'm sure he won't, and that's why I'd like the Ministry, I say, to come before us with a bill that looks like something rather than purely humane issues, and not personnel issues in terms of, say, regulation of employee status, but human rights issues of the Agency's leadership. As I said, this agency that is burdened with problems, but the problems are burdened by both the whole system and the Agency cannot be different because although it is formally behind that system, it is alive with that system and intertwined with it. For this reason, I would like the laws that come to us in the future to be about actually rooted changes in the system, the root changes that we need so badly because, as I said, our children don't actually get the skills and skills we need in the modern labour market, and then not the skills and knowledge we need in life. We produce surplus professions, not deficits, and we have teachers and teachers who are getting harder to work with. Here, it's our seriousness and our reality, and I'm afraid, if it continues like this, that really less people will be motivated and educated, and then they'll work as teachers and teachers. Because I'm saying, it's obvious that today students and parents know more than teachers and teachers. My colleagues, and I'm going to finish this, my colleague Puljak mentioned something that rang very loud to me. Breeding and education systems. We no longer have the education system. Educational yet somewhat, but educational, education at school is no longer due to this approach which both students and parents know more than teachers and teachers and, in fact, we should change the entire paradigm of our system. It won't be easy and we won't make it through the law, but we certainly won't make it through these laws either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118921	We've got replicas, a respected representative of the Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118922	Well, here, I wanted to replicate something else, but here, I can actually agree with your last finding in the education system, it's kind of gone, and it seems to me that less and less and less of an educational one. We have one of the problems, so what we're talking about today, on this topic, so this agency that people are running from because they're simply not satisfied with working conditions, and they're doing a very important function, now the question is whether it's supposed to work within an agency like this, separate agencies or someone else, but so this function needs to exist and a function of advice, to help colleagues in the education system, teachers, teachers, and how will it be done when they're not really satisfied with the whole organization? I would even say no materially, it's materially one of the problems, but the whole organization and how it's all set up, here, just a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118923	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118924	Thank you, colleague Puljak. I absolutely agree and I'm actually going to repeat what I said, and that's that it's a financial aspect of that job, I don't think anyone would do it, really, that job you have to love and what you're doing you have to love and put a lot of yourself into that job because it's not just a job, it's also calling in some way, we all know that we who came from that system or we've spent a part of our lives in it. So it's not just gonna go and do it, so that's one thing. The other thing is that teacher expertise is constantly being questioned, which is not necessarily a bad thing. The Agency should be reviewed, it should ensure the quality of teaching, just because teachers have better knowledge, skills, didactics, above all, teaching, etc., but who prescribes your teacher's expertise? Well, mostly parents. Parents and children and therefore we have such cases, such as, here, the last in a high school in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118925	Honorable representative and vice president of the Vosovac Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118926	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, you are right when you say that the Agency and the Ministry do not want to enter, or leave the system they are the best or those who are good do not want to enter because they are simply not just low-paid jobs, but in fact this part of the best, excellent carry on themselves the burden of not being the work of others. You also have 30% of employees at the Ministry who are top-notch, top of the top, you have 50% of those who are correct and have 20% of those, if they were gone tomorrow, you wouldn't even notice if they weren't there. And this 30% and this 50%, most often these 30% carry exactly the weight of these things that you wouldn't even realize they're not going to disappear tomorrow, and these good ones you can't actually pay adequately. And here's the key problem. And it's not like there's no money, I'll remind you that we've been paying the Ministry for, say, five years, the assistant ministers and state secretary for the same job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118927	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118928	Well, fellow Glasovac, I'll just agree, you've been an assistant minister, so I believe you know how the personnel pressures are in the ministry, I know it indirectly. And unfortunately, you're right here, not just the Ministry of Education. I think the situation is very similar in all state institutions, ministries, agencies, etc. And it's actually a tragedy that you good workers can't stimulate, you can't reward, you can't do anything at all. And these good ones are expected to draw for everyone else and there's actually the whole absurdity of that system. I can give you some other examples, let's just say, why don't we have top-notch informers in our ministries? Well, for that money, no IT that's solid knowledge is going to work. It just won't. A large system to maintain, such as e-school, e-Intentions, e-Matice, it should be known and power, and those who are the best in the market are doing much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118929	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118930	Dear colleague. Well, definitely these 11 articles are something to discuss, but it definitely shouldn't be a measurement, i.e. we should have a much wider law and a much wider topic and much more often in this House to talk about the Croatian education system and like you, but also a few colleagues and colleagues have already said, our education system that comes down to the enthusiasm of those who work in it, to the deficit of staff and definitely to small salaries and a lot of other things because that the education system doesn't work, for example, we can see companies that simply don't have them and which education system does not create. Let us take an example of Palo Alto and many as small as possible, medium-sized, as large as possible, and what global companies form within a circle of strong educational institutions, while in Croatia, world companies are created solely because of the talent and dedicated work of individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118931	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118932	Thank you very much. You're right, and you know how I see not only in education everywhere it should be. So you have a strategy, you have some goals that you want to achieve from that strategy, you change the system and the laws according to the goals you set for yourself. And with us all ad hoc seems very chaotic and very transparent is absolutely everything so we're changing parts of the law here to probably change, I said what I mean by that, but actually there are no long-term visions. Our system hasn't radically changed since you and I went to school, and it's been a while. And you agree that the opportunities in the world, the state of the labour market, have changed greatly, and that's actually a tragedy. We brought the Education Strategy, which no longer has any S, no one mentions it anymore, into the drawer. Well, I guess we've made up our mind and we can have a consensus that we want a good education system, that's a role for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118933	Thank you. The next one will be spoke by a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, so she'll speak to a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić. Here you go. I'm sorry I called you. You weren't there. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118934	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We are all very skeptical of this law because of the fact that if we change the management of the agency only and if we allow the government to appoint a part of the leadership and then appoint the director, or choose the director, I don't think we're going to solve the problem. We have a lot of problems with the Education and Education Agency, but these problems in this law are not touched at all. If we want our agency to work better, if we want to have a better education system, then we have to make other moves. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry that the majority of us are still claiming that the law is good and that it solves problems. It's an approach that's catastrophic. Why? At present, the agency has a bad teamwork with consultants for certain areas, very bad. As a result, there are not enough of them at all, these same counselors are not getting out of school counseling. What happens after that? It remains all in the principal and the professional departments for the control of teachers and their work. Is that good? I don't think we're going in the right direction. Let us not forget that in this agency, professional people’s salaries have been reduced and, of course, the number of employees has been reduced. Employees are leaving mass. And who's leaving? They're leaving the best. Why are they leaving? Because they're most wanted and it's easy to prove, it's easy to prove. Look who we have a system monitoring the quality of teaching, our system is such to advance the teacher and continue to demand. There's no such thing as anywhere, there's no pattern for a promotional proposal at all. Wouldn't it be normal for this service that monitors the teacher's work if he regularly monitors the teacher's work, if he has records of the teacher's work to make a proposal for his advancement? Today, if we don't have a system, the information system is a unique system in which all data can be recorded and that, after that, automatic services suggest the advancement of individual teachers, progress in the profession. It would be a normal approach, but for that we need to have quality people in the right places who will go to schools in time and in the number of hours it takes to follow the work of teachers. If we do not have that, then we have the kind of promotional requirements that are still recommended in which folders you need to prepare which document to make it easier to process it later at the agency and to get the counselor out into the field or into school and to be present at the follow-up so that later someone may be making progress in the profession. That's not good. We're not gonna solve the problem with the front positions. Whether we are now, this law will actually be given, yet surely the ruling majority will vote, it will be possible for the statute to change every little bit. Why? Because the statute actually defines the administrative council. What does that mean? If we're changing the organization of the agency, I'm sorry if we're changing the structure of the agency, and we're changing the organization. Are we gonna change the agency's organization every once in a while? Wasn't it enough 16 years for us to learn what it takes to keep our agency quality and to do our job well? Wasn't it enough for us 16 years of tracking that agency's work to see what the problems were? Wasn't it enough for us for 16 years to realize that these people who are good quality, who have shown up and hired the agency that they have to be rewarded for their work? And these new teachers who are willing to come work at the agency, as my colleague said if I'm not mistaken, Marian, if they even come to the agency after a few months from the agency, they're leaving. Where are they going? They're back to their jobs because they're still unfulfilled. So we have a problem with professional people. And now that the government is going to appoint a board of directors, it's not going to help us solve the problems that are currently in the agency. nor will we improve the system of education, of course of education and education. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118935	Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118936	Thank you very much. You're right when you talk about it, the agency should also work on calling teachers, teachers and mentors, or counselors, but I want to tell you how rigid a system is. So you have a salary that you have to be a mentor or advisor to a lot of paperwork you have to have, review lectures, seminars, so you have to invest a lot of effort and time to end up being a pay raise that's actually miserable, means that it's not something that would further motivate you to be even better. And that's why this system is actually resting exclusively on enthusiasts, those who do well, who love their job because I say they choose a job by pay, in some financial aspect of that job would never choose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118937	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118938	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here I come from a family where there's been a lot of teachers and teachers, my wife's a teacher, my aunt's a teacher, my uncle's a teacher, an uncle's teacher, so we know, I taught high school for a few years, and we know what education is, and we know how it works, and we know how it should work. I'm currently a high school school school board, and I know what problems they're facing, and we know what's going on at that school despite the fact that the principal is great, good, but he's having trouble getting people out of the agency, he just can't. The supervision is currently being carried out in a way that is not adequate and then we have a problem that is then being swept over to other teachers and afterwards and to students, and we do not have what we need to get with this system of education, and it would be much more quality to take care of it, rather than the leadership that the government will now appoint.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118939	Honorable representative and vice president of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118940	Thank you. A colleague of Pavic's should be seen by agency employees who left the agency, who were in 2021. either seven, and in 2020, even 14, and most of them actually went on the basis of a contract or a job transfer agreement with another employer or a temporary or permanent one should see whether they left because they were dissatisfied or an agency such as some other agencies in the system take that role of employment and transfer to others, which is one highly organised HDZ methodology of filling state institutions with staff should first see it. And secondly, we have huge untapped potential in mentors and field counselors that we don't use, not just agency employees as senior advisors. It's the field. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118941	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118942	Dear colleagues, I must agree with you on this second finding, that is certainly correct. We should do this research, and I think that we would come up with an amazing result, but the fact is that we're leaving a part of the quality personnel that have been admitted and doing a good job. The fact is that these jobs are also used as a hot spot, people come to the state agency and are then beautifully transferred where they can be transferred to their experience, knowledge and potential qualifications. And that's another problem because at that time when they came into the system they didn't do their part of the job because they just couldn't even do it and they weren't meant for that part of the job. They were there to get there and transfer to another agency or to some ministry so that they could be in the system and without competition moved from one institution to another. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118943	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118944	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavic, I just have to correct you and tell you that it's not the point of a counselor that everyone is at school and that they're out of the blue coming to educational institutions. The point of counselling is to evaluate the work of educators or workers, but also to evaluate curricula. And there are procedures for all of this, and there are rules for all of this, and that's what counselors do. So, for example, in this year alone, the Agency for Education and Education has spent as much as 104 state-run events, just for teachers, teachers and teachers, at least four national events per class. I think you should know that when you introduce yourself like that as a top teacher of the education system. I think you should be serious about carrying out This kind of attitude, and to actually express the fact and the truth. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118945	Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118946	Comrade Buric, thank you for your education. I really didn't know these numbers or care to tell you the truth. I know the system the way I am, and I think I know that system enough, but when I don't look at it as ideally as you do. First of all, the primary role of counsellors is not to come to school out of the blue but to come to school announced, to come announced. No, he doesn't come because he's gone, you don't understand them, they don't exist, they don't come to school most often after the principal's call, most of the time by the principal's invitation. The fact is that there are meetings or pardon trainings to be held in both counties and that these trainings have quite a number, but don't forget that a part of teachers who are interested in it can't be at these meetings simply can't be because of the organisation of teaching. And then there's the problem. And to get the counselor to come to school on time, to work with those teachers. that he has records of these teachers [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It would all be different. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118947	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first plate was raised by a respected representative, Buric. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118948	Dear Vice President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured in an article. In 238, we really have to react 13 years I've worked in the education system and I can't accept the fact that you've brought it up, and it's a pure lie that school counselors don't come to school when they've been so much at my school. I mean, I'm going to be very, very honest and open-minded where counselors to the Education and Education Agency at my school have been every once in a while. Not just in mine, but in many. That's after 13 years, it's my duty to tell it and tell it the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118949	Yeah, you know it was a replica, so I'm giving you a warning. A respected representative, Bedekovic, also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also believe that Article 238 has been injured. Namely, dear colleague, I appreciate your concern for the system and I appreciate your consideration. However, I believe that such statements need to be guided by facts and therefore I believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. You can't argue casually and you can't speak and generalize the entire system based on perhaps examples from your environment, perhaps examples from one, two, three or five schools. You must see all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118951	It was the same replica, so I have to give a warning. Your colleague Pavić and you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118952	Well, I did because my colleague Buric says things first that I didn't say. Listen to what I said about what you claimed after that, that's one thing. Another thing a colleague claims is that if there's something in my middle, it's not elsewhere. Don't all the students in this country have the right to the same education? Don't they all have the right to the same terms? Don't they all have the same quality of teaching? Don't they all have the same quality of teachers? Is that what you're gonna tell me? Is Zagorje wrong? Zagreb is good, Karlovac is good. But Zagorje is not well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118953	Thank you very much. And you know it was a replica. Let's not do that, let's not do that, then we'll be very surprised when the Rules of Procedure is implemented and knowingly violate it. It's not right. Yeah? Dear representative Puljak has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118954	So here's to not speak casually of the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law came about 300 remarks and remarks and advisers, so those who are also employees of the agency, but also the comments of teachers who have collaborated with these advisors and are actually masha problems. They state problems that are not solved by this law. So it's not a flat-rate evaluation, it's not an evaluation from not knowing yours or my neighborhood, but here's even on the basis of three hundred remarks on these amendments and additions to the law. So, problems in the organization of this agency, problems in even the work of consultants on the ground, and what happens? You also have unskilled advisors, and then even when they come to the field, they act in different ways. You can also see one comment from the teacher. So, a bunch of problems that this law doesn't solve. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118955	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118956	Thank you, fellow Members, for paying attention to the number of remarks that have come and how much has been accepted. Two, two comments were accepted, the rest were not accepted. The rest have been received or accepted in part. And the teachers also made comments, and the principals also made remarks. Now I have two requests from two principals asking me to draw attention to my distractions. So if you think the directors are wrong to tell it to the directors, then I will invite them to their home, so talk to them, and tell them that they lie like you told me. And just before you listen to what I said, so you know what you said after that, and I agree with you completely. And if we don't listen to what the waist tells us, what people on the field tell us we'll never write a good law. This law with the agency, with the interests of the agency, with the interests of schools, education and education systems has nothing to do with it. And as for education and education, I've been working in the education system for the last 17 years, to make it clear to you, for information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118957	Thank you. Now we're going to the final exhibit. First final presentation of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Nikola Mažar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, so here I am, unlike my colleagues in the opposition, I will not take the right or take the courage to say about the Education and Education Agency that the best have gone, because I don't know if the best have gone or the best have stayed to work for a clean, simple reason since I don't work with them, so I can't have an assessment of whether someone is the best or not and I won't give such a flat-rate statement but I will focus on the scale of the point of this agenda, which is the Law on the Education and Education Agency. And someone also mentioned today in the debate that it's regrettable that the bill has so many articles, that it's gone. In fact, the proposed law, or the quality of the bill, is not in the number of articles or the size of the law, but in the content. And what we can see from this bill that and with a few articles, very important things change and those things that are mentioned in the e-consultation. So, if someone has read and reviewed e-consultation it is true that over 200 have different opinions, but it is also true that most of them welcome these amendments and supplement the law. And what is crucial, if we want through this debate today really to show concern for the Education and Education Agency, then we will see that just the senior advisors who are mentioned are mentioned in a way that needs to give a certain legal framework for their actions, but also value through the coefficients of the complexity of their work. For this reason, it is important to stress that the agency as a public institution cannot and should not, and it is good to change here today through the law to prescribe both the coefficients and the internal structure and the systematization of jobs because it only slows down the functioning and manner of the Agency's work. It is these amendments and the bill that today's amendments will allow for faster, more high-quality and efficient activities of the Agency, as it will enable all that is needed for advisers and job systematisation and, in accordance with the Regulation on job names and the coefficients of complexity of public service jobs to enable them to make possible, therefore, that part that matters to them. But also what's important and good to stress is that this very proposal today's law changes key things other than the statutes of the agency. Therefore, an opportunity is given, an opportunity and is legally strengthened that workers have their own representative in the board of directors of the agency, is put in accordance with the Labour Act. Also, members of the administrative council proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not, as so far, be proposed in such a way that the relevant and competent ministry makes a proposal but will do so through a public call. I think it's the best and most transparent way to elect members of the Administrative Council. The Director will also comply with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, certain criteria will be put in place, including 10 years of work in the profession. This will be created, therefore, for the principal to be a professional person above all. Of course, these things, when we look through a few articles, are crucial for not only the work of the agency, not only to strengthen transparency, but also to what follows, and the next item of the agenda of the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity, to be approached professionally and re-accessively, in the interests of both employees and directors and educational institutions, but of course everything in the direction of those for whom it is done, and that is our students. If we look at today's independent union statements that welcome, so also the proposal for a law on higher education and scientific activity if we see in an e-consultation where these changes and additions are welcomed for the agency, then we can certainly see that all of this that we are discussing today makes sense. And not only does it make sense, but it has support and a wider public, but it also has the support of the union and the support of the profession and support of directors and professors, and for that reason we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118959	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm surprised and amazed, I don't know if I live in a parallel universe but I don't live in that Croatia and I haven't worked in that system and I don't get the messages I hear from this side of the assembly. Right here while we were sitting down, my colleague Pavić and I were comparing what messages we were getting. We don't get messages that flowers bloom, just the opposite of people leaving, that there's a discrepancy with the ministry, that there's no change. Here I'll tell you I've also been in the system for years. I haven't really seen the agency counselor, and I can't even blame them. I'll tell you why. Because they do everything, there's too few. So they also have to do professional training, have to work and compete, have to work and advance. They actually have very little time at the end to get out on the field, go to school. And I'm very glad that your schoolmates were very often. They're not in my house. Yeah, there's no mentor and no counselor, yeah. There is. But I think if you don't trust me, and you trust people in the field, here are the principals and teachers. Because I'm saying I think we live in a parallel universe where it's more important now who's going to be the director and how it's going to be chosen than whether this system is going to work. I'm telling you these changes won't do any good to the agency, to the system, to those employees, absolutely nothing. Their lives will continue as they went. There won't be any better people, they'll keep going and we won't actually solve any problems except that HDZ's either him or HDZ's prone to the person or HDZ's head of the agency. That's what we'll do for our colleagues and colleagues. I guess that's the problem with the education system, and we solved it, which is where I congratulate you. We'll clap at the end when you raise your hand. But the key issues of the agency, we haven't solved them. And I say again, if you don't trust me, if you don't trust your colleagues and your colleagues, then ask people who work in the system. You don't have to go far. The Education Agency is here where the Ministry of Education is. We also have an agency exposure in Osijek, so I know how to talk to those people. And what they're telling me is not what I'm listening to here. So those who say that sometimes some live in a balloon or some want to live in a balloon is absolutely true and the real problems of the system we haven't touched through these changes to the law. I wish I could say hello to that and say yes, we solved it if not all, and then at least some agency problems but we didn't solve any colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118961	That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We are going to the next point and that is - Proposal for a law on higher education and scientific activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 300. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please. Before you begin the honored representative Marija Selak-Raspadić raised her hand, I assume she wants a break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118964	I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club that before I begin this debate at all, I am warning of its inability, and this inability stems from the way the Parliament's agenda is drawn up, knowingly and manipulatively, so that a key point, a key reform in scientific activity, a high education of reforms, this law that addresses the supposed most educated part of the Croatian population that should be the engine of society comes to the agenda. When? A week before the break, on Friday afternoon as the second item after the vote in parliament. This is even for the otherwise manipulative assembly of the agenda in HS with the aim of suffocating parliamentary debates and moving from the eyes of the public and the media precedent. Since I've been in HS, I haven't remembered that there's an important point, let alone a crucial law on science and higher education discussed after the vote in HS. My basic question on this trail in view of the dramatic changes proposed by this Law, which are primarily about capturing university autonomy, which I am extremely critical of, if this is your crucial reform, and you pushed under the rug because I am here, now I have sent all the journalists who are going to pass this on to the Croatian citizens, because Friday afternoon and people have gone to their homes, what are you ashamed of? What exactly are you hiding? Why don't you boast about your reform in the process? And I find this manipulative assembly of HS's schedule totally inadmissible asphyxiation democratic debates and procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118965	Thank you. Thank you. This, of course, pause will be approved. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We will continue and invite the respected Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs to give an additional explanation on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118966	... HS, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] A functional and quality system of higher education and science is regulated on the modern requirements of the higher education and research sector is a prerequisite for the successful development of each country. The importance of setting up such a system begins to regulate the legislative framework, which, taking into account the European dimension of the development of science and higher education systems, will simultaneously address the national system and encourage the development of society, innovation and science. It is precisely the basis of these guidelines that the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity that lies ahead of you. The relevant legal framework was adopted in 2003, 12 amendments and additions have passed, and does not meet the current needs of the academic community and society, and therefore the existing system of higher education and scientific activities is necessarily necessary to address and improve in terms of creating a better model of funding, organisation of universities and promotion criteria and the award of scientific, or scientific and educational callings. The responsibility for the adoption of a new Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity is also in the national but development strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2030, by 2030, and the strategic basis for the adoption of a new legal framework is also the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which defines the adoption of a new law as a prerequisite for implementing reforms to raise research and innovation potential. The key reform measures under the NPOO provide for the modernisation and digitisation of higher education and sciences, which, inter alia, are planned to be implemented through the introduction of a normative framework that will allow the legal and financial framework for the organisational and functional integration of universities and scientific institutes and the new result-based financing framework. These measures will also enable a comprehensive digital transformation of higher education and infrastructure investment aimed at achieving the objectives of green and digital Europe. Infrastructure and institutional changes are needed not only to achieve strategic objectives at European and national level, but also to achieve the basis for setting the leading standards and competitiveness of Croatia's higher education and science system at global level. This Law aims to strengthen the system of higher education and scientific activities and its institutional capacity and to bring it into line with the principles and tasks of the European higher education area, the European space of education and the European Research Area, and we intend to achieve this through provisions that improve the legal and financial framework of the system, which in a flexible way regulate the principles of organisation and financing of the higher education and scientific research sector. Since we want to strengthen the Constitution by defining the autonomy of the university, in certain matters we leave a greater space for the autonomous functioning of institutions in the system of science and higher education. One example is that universities, universities, or academia are given authority to prescribe the internal structure in the statutes, as well as the internal order of scientific, scientific and educational, artistic and teaching, teaching, cooperation, professional and other jobs. In the context of greater autonomy of the university there is also a provision which leaves the universities part of the powers of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, relating to funding and will independently negotiate and establish an annual and multiannual financial framework. As I open this topic of financial aspect, I would like to remind myself that the model of financing higher education and science in Croatia has experienced some changes and improvements with the aim of increasing public and higher education responsibilities in the management of financial resources. However, the public funding system remains insufficiently transparent and does not involve effective monitoring mechanisms for programme contracts and results achieved. This funding model makes it impossible to achieve the full potential of the Croatian research sector, resulting in scientific productivity, efficiency and transfer of knowledge still limited. For this reason, these laws prescribe framework content and procedure for the conclusion of complete programming contracts as a new model of funding for public higher schools and public scientific institutes based on results, influential publications, a number of competitive projects, stronger international cooperation, increased number of projects with the economy, etc. Full programme funding for higher education promotes results-based action and reforms the system of funding for higher education and science in a system based on the quality of relevance and social sensitivity of higher education and international visibility, i.e. a framework that will serve as a platform for defining the objectives for which scientific institutes and higher schools will be responsible and those objectives will be established by means of a multi-annual programme contract. The full programming contracts will also include responsible social action taking into account the needs arising from national and European strategies and action plans whose measures are based on the improvement of higher education and science systems. The proposal for a law also defines the basic development and implementation component of the programme contracts, i.e. funding based on results achieved, and clearly indicates that public higher schools or public scientific institutions which do not conclude programming contracts by the end of the year in which they started funding in the following academic year from the state budget of 95% of the previous year or the current year. Public higher schools and public scientific institutes assume responsibility for systematic work towards achieving the objectives of the programme contracts in order to achieve additional funding based on results achieved and thus for the first time establish a functional system of promotion and development of the quality of higher education and science. In addition, such an incentive system of financial management will directly stimulate public scientific institutes and public higher universities that conduct research in the field of green and digital transitions and educate personnel for a high technological environment. Individually expected impact on the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs while modernising study programmes should result in the selection of deficit staff and the selection of deficit staff in the field of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, computerisation of high performances, etc. The bill highlights the strategic, advisory and supportive role of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, which cares about the development and quality of the overall system of higher education, scientific activities and technological development in Croatia. An important legal solution to the establishment of a Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education has proved ineffective in relation to the purpose for which it was established. In practice, the opinions and decisions of that committee were merely nominal, they were not able to apply or have any legal force in relation to decisions of higher schools, and in particular decisions of non-integrated higher schools establishing ethical bodies and ethical codes in two degrees, university and university. This law therefore proposes that the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, as the most advisory and expert body, which is concerned about the development and quality of the overall system of higher education, science and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, assume competence in adopting minimum ethical standards. Minimum ethical standards will be required to be part of the content of ethical codes that will bring individual higher schools or scientific institutes with additional ethical principles, given the specificity of the scientific or artistic field in which each higher education or scientific institute operates. In this way, it aims to enable an individualised and more functional system of establishing and protecting ethical principles. The bill prescribes simpler procedures for the employment of teachers, scientists and co-workers and for the advancement of teachers and scientists through jobs, bringing the acquired calling together with the right job. In the context of progress after a period of time of five years and meeting all criteria for choice in a more scientific term, an internal procedure will be carried out. The new law no longer foresees the possibility of establishing private higher schools by county, towns and municipalities and the possibility of the county, city and municipality being founders of private higher schools, but does not affect the rights and existence of already established higher universities according to the applicable law. Such a normative solution was necessary because of certain cases of insolvency, inefficient management system and high schools established by counties, cities and municipalities. Finally, in order to promote accessibility and to ensure the right to education and inclusion of higher education in such situations, additional unplanned burdens on the state budget have taken place on significant expenditures. Since the differences between high school and high school are no longer foreseen by this draft law, the possibility of establishing a higher school as a high school is no longer envisaged, which aims to achieve equality and clarity in relation to the types of institutions and the purpose of their activities in the higher education system. We have provided that high schools, or in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law established under the provisions of the applicable law, will become high schools and will coordinate their names within the time limit set out in the draft law, as compared to the applicable law, the difference between the constituents of the university with and without legal personality is more clearly prescribed. Through the long-term application, the applicable law has proved to be lacking in the section relating to transparent mechanisms of control over the legality of the work of the university body, in particular in relation to the law, the justified spending of budgetary resources and the responsible management of other resources. Therefore, the new law systematically addresses the issue of supervision of all bodies of the university. In fact, the current law provides for the existence of university councils as bodies that oversee the performance of higher education tasks and the legality of work. Such a solution was without formal effect in practice, given that the decisions of the council remained at the level of the report, with the possibility of making a proposal. Therefore, instead of a university council, the draft law establishes a new body, a university council that has specific powers by law. The establishment of a university council protects public interest at a public university. It is clear who cannot be a member of the university council in order to ensure the independence of the body and the obligation to propose measures which are necessary and time limits for the removal of irregularities, with a view to setting deadlines for the removal of the irregularities that have been found to exist. It is also systematically prescribed and prescribed the supervisory powers of the university itself over colleges or art academys. The next novelty adopted by the bill to clearly highlight art activities in the post of higher education as a separate category for the first time. This enables the affirmation of artistic creation and expression as activities of equivalent scientific activity, and provides for the records of artists in the unique register of scientists and artists in higher education. The bill also establishes a clearer system of academic and professional names acquired after a professional and university study, which will facilitate academic mobility and recognition of qualifications in national and European legal transport. In particular, through these provisions, we are correcting an unfavourable position for students who have completed a graduate professional study and have acquired the term "professional specialist" or are now proposing the term "magistar" called profession. As regards the position of students as an important participant in the higher education system, it is stressed that students still have the possibility to participate in higher education bodies through participation in their work and decision-making, such as the choice of rectors and dean of the public university. The participation of student representatives in student issues has been further strengthened through the Institute of Suspensive Vet on Senate decisions and college or academic council on issues of interest for students. As regards student law, the bill introduces a significant change for regular students who want to start a working relationship. Thus, regular students will have the opportunity to conclude work contracts and to maintain the status of a regular student, but without exercising student standard rights and the right to subsidized education. Furthermore, the provisions of the bill also establish the obligation to comply with the study programme with the Croatian qualification framework, which will improve and even the quality of the study programmes and also refresh the purpose of registering the Croatian qualification framework. The adoption of this law and the harmonisation of study programmes and registration quotas with labour market needs will allow higher levels of employability of diplomats and we expect this to contribute to the retention of young experts in Croatia. The multi-year planning of human resources and through programming contracts further opens the possibility of returning Croatian researchers, and attracting quality scientists from Europe and the world. The bill also establishes a normative basis for the digitisation of higher education through the issuance of documents on completed studies in digital form, as well as the regulation of public obligations of higher universities for electronic data management through the Ministry's information systems and the Science and Higher Education Agency. A prerequisite for an effective exchange of information and recognition of rights stemming from the fact that studies are completed at national and European level and enables the establishment of a central information system which is also in line with the EU's digital and green objectives. He would like to say that the proposal included a large number of relevant stakeholders in the system of higher education and science, and the public space on the law was discussed not only during consultation with the interested public but also during the full presentation of the law at the meetings of the rectorial assembly, the Senates of the university, the councils of the university, the higher schools, and the directors of the institute, unfortunately, not with one Senate of a university. The social partners praised the efforts, and in this context I want to mention the conclusion of an economic social council that welcomes positive changes and good solutions in the new law, in particular the introduction of programme contracts in the financing of higher education and science, which affirms the purpose of university autonomy. Finally, I believe it is necessary to point out once again that scientists and teachers in the system retain acquired titles that will be taken into account in progress, and the criteria of progress will further specify the national council. Finally, I stress that all the procedures adopted by this bill are primarily aimed at improving the system, organisation and funding in the field of higher education and scientific activities, and with the ultimate aim of enabling the research and higher education sector to become even more efficient and functional in relation to the needs of society, the economy, and in particular more competitively observed in the European context, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118967	We have a whole series of replicas, let's start from the beginning, the first respected representative of Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118968	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I believe that this law represents a reform step towards the improvement of the Croatian system of higher education and scientific activities and that it really brings positive changes, that it modernises the system and adapts it and, of course, harmonizes with the principles and tasks of the European Research Area, the European space of higher education. During public consultation, however, and in both public and academic space, part of the academic circles took the view that the bill violates and violates the constitution guaranteed autonomy for universities. I believe that it is primarily necessary to distinguish well and to clarify the concepts of autonomy and accountability. Autonomy, above all, as protection of academic rights and freedoms, protection of intellectual independence and financial autonomy, and on the other hand responsibility as responsibilities to society; and [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] responsibilities for the management of public finances. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118969	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118970	Please comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118971	Thank you very much. I think that this law has certainly protected not only the autonomy of the university, which is guaranteed as a constitutional category, but the constitution itself says that the autonomy of the university is guaranteed by the constitution and the law, that we have strengthened it by this very law in a way that we have transferred the entire series of powers to the university itself. The only thing this law and critics mention is a slightly greater control objectively again in the very sense of the autonomous action of a single body called the university council that is primarily monitoring and controlling the responsible spending of funds obtained from the state budget or public money at public university. No other restrictions are introduced, but they are improving.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118972	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118973	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this bill provides for funding by impact according to the work results of the institutions. However, as far as you can see from the website, for example, you can download, as many as 25 to 30 study programs, not one student is the first choice. Professors work normally still do. On the other hand, here I am for over a year and a half dealing with the traineeship problem so these young people after school can't achieve a traineeship because the state doesn't prescribe enough quotas, go out, work on black, market needs them, so there's a need for physiotherapists and others, but the state doesn't do its job. Therefore, it is necessary to harmonise market needs, to change the registration quotas, to work on changing the kukrikulum of schooling, but all these changes happen too slowly. How long do you think these changes of law and within what time will solve the problem, here's a particular traineeship where people wait a few years for a traineeship and the state doesn't do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118974	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118975	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right, I agree with what you're saying should definitely enable the rapid traineeship in those professions where it's prescribed, and these are mostly good parts and regulated professions, but also some others. Unfortunately, it is not in this ministry's jurisdiction, but through this law we want to make a synergism between the needs of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia in very close cooperation between higher education institutions, the Employment Office. So listening to any need at the level of the Republic of Croatia in this regard will plan and negotiate through programming contracts the part to be financed by public money. Of course, it will still remain possible for universities to be independent, but in that case without State funding to open up some study programmes, but then to their own responsibility [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118976	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118977	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. Since students of nearly 11,000 of them gathered in the “300 equals 300” student initiative do not have the opportunity to be here with us today personally, they asked me to convey their denial or to be their voice in the assembly once again. Dear ministers and fellow students thank you for the courage needed to make these changes, but also for really listening to them when they told you about their problems and respected their suggestions on their resolution. For this it took great courage and students of professional studies sincerely thank you for listening to them and respecting their suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118978	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118979	Well, thank you. I think in our conversation with the students, we respected that part of the constructive proposals that came from the field, and I note that there is another law that should also be adopted and serious, so I would say that a new law will be needed, which is the Law on the Student Assembly, which then further defines the rights and functioning of the student organisations themselves within the higher education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118980	Dear Representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118981	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists Independent Union of Science and Higher Education sent a letter to trust other colleagues in other clubs, so I will only read one comment here and ask your comment on it. The law goes in the direction of unacceptable precaration of a working relationship... of a group of assistant employees. The proposed regulation would have very negative long-term effects on attracting and retaining the most qualitative people in the system, but also in the country. On the contrary, it is necessary to protect the working relationship and the position of assistants, to prescribe the minimum duration of their contract, which provides the necessary time to complete the doctorate, regulate the practice of employment on projects, and to equalise the rights and obligations of all assistants, regardless of which sources their work is financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118982	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118983	Thank you. Yes, I think that this law improves the position of assistants or PhDs more significantly than previous practices or legal solutions. Here, however, the possibility of a choice in the first step of scientific calling, so at university professors at scientific institutes, a scientific associate after doctoral doctoral dissertation doctorate has no obligation to spend five years in the position of assistants, but it is possible to make an immediate choice in a scientific associate or professor, thus further speeding up this passage of the entry of new young people. On the other hand, it was also possible for those assistants admitted to projects outside the category financed by the Croatian Science Foundation and working on projects of an international duration of 3 years of teaching, to be financed until, completion of a doctorate. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118984	Thank you very much. The next line is by colleague Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118985	Dear Ministers, in your address you point out that these legislative changes have been commended by the social partners, so you state the Economic Social Council. I don't know if you're underestimating or joking with us, but at the head of this GSV, HDZ's newly named Minister Marin Piletic, so I'd like to thank the government for commending herself and you for bringing this up as a commendation to the social partners in front of the Croatian public and HS. My question goes in the direction of dodging autonomy. I wish you'd said you were opposed to university autonomy and wanted political control over the university so we could discuss here various concepts of higher education systems. How can you say that it's just one university council body where a key role will play politics, when it's the crucial body that will only oversee the university and thus disable its autonomy. Everything that comes under it and what's like the autonomy of the university that stays, then the Council becomes completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118986	Thank you. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118987	Thank you very much. Of course, I do. Yeah. [[I'm sorry, that was an injury?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118988	And I'm looking, I'm looking up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118989	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, to explain to counterpart Rasudiæ what GSV, the esteemed vice president, you were a minister, has the same number of social partners there, the rotating presidency, that is, the president is coming, the unions, employers and the government are changing, and if the GSV collapsed, then it supported the conclusion. Therefore, the way you're imputing that the government has supported itself is the difamation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118990	Thank you very much. I support your need to clarify this, but it's past the Rules of Procedure, and then it has to follow a warning. Now I ask you to respond to the replica of your colleague, Rasputic Selak. The Rules of Procedure again? ... Yeah, I'm sorry, Maria Selak Rasdic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118991	Art. 238, my colleague Pavić misunderstood me and thus demeaned me. I just wanted to show my astonishment that the GSV, led by HDZ Minister Piletic, praised the ministry's legal changes, headed by HDZ Minister Fuchs, and this is a nice dialogue between the HDZ government's social partners with social partners who also come from the HDZ ranks. For example, society. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118992	Thank you very much, too, a reminder to you colleagues because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now we have a reply to the replica at last, Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118993	Well, I'm not gonna say anything about GSV anymore because I think it's pointless to comment on this one. On the other hand, no, the autonomy of the university is quite content and dapaca, by introducing this university council it is very much strengthening the regularity and responsible behaviour and within such an autonomous university. The university council that did not meet, which had no executive authority, which, by the way, was, within the university itself, here, specifically from one university, the president of that university council was elected, I suppose, autonomously counter to his own statutes. So what can we say more than that, where is that advice for people who are in direct conflict of interest still? Therefore, we need order for responsible spending and managing public universities of public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118994	Thank you very much. The next line has a colleague, Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118995	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, Minister, I think you really need to be proud of the law you've passed, we've also seen on the board that the members of the Committee on Science and Higher, even from the ranks of the opposition, have given positive signals that this is reform law. I would also like to congratulate you on the withdrawal of funds, a billion euros from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme where the EC praised your portfolio, 30% from future EU funds will go for research and development, our scientists will be able to report to the Horizon, to the JRC, and I think it is important when there is so much money, to ensure capacity building for people in the system. Have you considered the 30% supplement that they have in the other part.../incomprehensible/... others in the system for those implementing EU projects to have that salary supplement? I think that this initiative, if put into a legal solution, would significantly strengthen capacities Especially for the application of Horizon and EU funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118996	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118997	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, the proposal for NPOO has been very closely agreed and I think we have experienced, in this case, not HDZ's commendation by the EC, but the Commission's commendation at very concrete amounts, and that, as you said, is a billion euros for the system of science and education. But when you mention this to me, I think it's a commendable proposal, I think it has a basis and we'll take it into consideration and see if it's possible in the context of other legal regulations, if not, then I hope we'll install it for the next reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118998	Thank you. He also has a colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u118999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. My line is too small to say anything about the law, but I'm going to set out two details. The first status of language teachers is the profession of high school employees, should be evened with and placed in an equal position with other or similar jobs in higher education institutions. It's, since I'm an Anglist myself, I'd like to draw particular attention to that. Also, even though it's not specifically about this Act, but you mentioned that a professional specialist will become a master of the profession, so I'm using this opportunity to ask you what's going to happen to our Frankenstein title here, which I have, it's a university specialist. How do you translate that? It's not a magistrate, it's not a doctorate, so what is it? It's somewhere in an airspace that you just can't translate anywhere when you go abroad because there's just no equivalent. If we agreed to Bologna, standardisation, then we should solve this problem in the long run.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119000	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119001	Thank you. Once again, I must admit that you are certainly partly right, and this law has gone in this direction to just introduce order among the titles of high education that have been quite confusing in some way so far. They were not even in line with the Croatian qualification framework, and we are about to resolve this law. It's on one side. On the other hand, you mentioned certain categories of high-school employees. This is one problem that has basically been withdrawn since the first adoption of this law, where lecturers' coefficients have been placed, university lecturers who have actually taught students, placed on the level of text-editors. This law opens up the possibility that the high schools within their statutes are regulated in a way that gives them the opportunity to make these people and doctoral progress in the categories in which they are. There's no obstacle to becoming professors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119002	Thank you. A colleague of Mariana Puljak's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119003	Good afternoon, Your Honor. In this law, so you haven't touched yourself in the way you choose a rector. So, the rector's choice remains in the present way, so it's chosen by senators or the Senate, which is what it looks like in practice, too, to be one trade field. So it's chosen by people who are ultimately financially dependent on the rector. Progress in this regard has been shown by the University of Rijeka, which made one of the slightly more democratic models under this law by choosing between the two candidates elected by the college council. But do you intend to make any changes, so in the choice of rectors, to introduce them to another reading? In the rector's choice. [[/Intruder: Didn't I hear in the selection?]] So, the way the university's rector is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119004	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119005	The University of Rijeka, like this again. The choice of rectors was left completely autonomously to the decision to regulate the statutes of the universities themselves and we have different models of the choice of rectors and we have neither invited them nor wanted to prescribe these laws from the very beginning, although it would be fine if it were finally a European practice to choose rectors by public competition and that all those who think they are capable, willing and able to act as rectors at any university can apply in a public competition. Unfortunately, somehow tradition in Croatia speaks and goes in the opposite direction. I don't remember and I don't know any practice that at some university in Croatia a rector who wasn't from that university was chosen, and that's basically bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119006	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119007	Dear Ministers, by this law, you have transferred some of the powers of the National Council to universities themselves, which can now make their own funding contracts. I don't think you've cleaned the system up enough of unnecessary bodies. We see that some of them are their own purpose, and they are a distraction if we want to achieve those goals that science and the education system need. Secondly, you said you wanted to achieve project funding based on results. I don't know how you've secured it, which is what you're thinking of providing the criteria of objectivity in the assessment of quality and relevance. So I don't see any movement here. It is known that our top scientists had to realise and prove their excellence and competence abroad because they were despised in Croatia. And the third thing when we talk about the transparency of funding is simply gone, it's a mere flossula, there's no system of showing all costs, like some units of local self-government for bodies like universities that are in the way of spending funds completely below radar. So you haven't addressed these three key problems at all to the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119008	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119009	The objectivity of those people who are applying and evaluating, but who are sitting in administrative bodies is regulated by the choice and appointment of those bodies in which they can be ranked there and set up some sort of assessment of whether someone is an internationally recognised scientist or not an internationally recognised scientist might even in some categories be able to, but there is a whole series of branches and fields in which it is a very relative thing. Efforts to maintain objectivity and we will continue to try, of course, to do as much as possible in terms of improving the entire system. I think it was also discussed that part of the part relating to, or that you asked, the part that concerns and the part that only finance certain parts of it within this law will be regulated by that part of the funds coming from the state budget, but of course there is still a whole series of funds that come from the sides that will then be regulated later by the principles contained in the rulebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119010	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119011	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Brain drain is a very big problem. This problem is not only for Croatia but also for other European countries. In your opening presentation, you also touched on these topics and measures you plan to take to return our highly educated experts and scientists to Croatia. Of course it is clear to everyone that the mobility of scientists and highly educated people is good, but permanent eviction is a permanent loss for our society. Is there perhaps a solution to the integration of both the private sector and the economy? Could they be discussed with them by any common measures that might help? In particular, I think of those private sectors that are needed in their business as high, excellent knowledge and productivity. And I believe that you will agree with me that it is very important that we take all the measures we need to avoid losing our talents, because they are crucial to our social, economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119012	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119013	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Yes, of course we think intensively about it, I repeat again that this law is precisely aimed at, according to the labour market, it is also aimed at the economy as well as at the part without which the functioning of state and state bodies and society is not possible. That is why there is another provision in this law, the article appears to me to be 11. where it says that universities establish economic advice and other possible advice if necessary, but it is intended to put on the emphasis that universities start talking very intensively to economies that we do not have a single statement, we produce top experts, but the economy does not recognise them, this must not happen, it is precisely these experts that must be produced in, produced, I deliberately say produce in symbiosis and agreement with the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119014	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Nino Rasudić, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119015	Thank you. Dear Ministers, an analysis of the situation as adopted in the assessment of the situation under the draft law, and in the PowerPoint presentation presented by the Ministry to the Croatian scientific community is poor and methodologically completely unfounded. You are probably familiar with the analysis that Damir Stance professor made in terms of such a representation of the situation where, for example, he shows that in the presentation of the number of higher universities, a completely different methodology was used for Croatia where it turns out that there are many more of them than in the Czech Republic than in other countries that have been taken as an example because only for Croatia the number of higher schools and their components were combined, and when done in the same methodology it turns out to be quite the opposite. It's similar with the number of study programs, and about quotes taken for some reason by the average of '97. until 2017, and there is no record of the last 5 years. I don't want to talk. So are you aware of this problem that the methodologically problematic and very questionable picture of the situation you presented?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119016	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119017	You refer to the number, Honorable Representative Rasdic, you refer to the number of study programs that a professor has developed by calling around some institutions, I suppose, and collecting data. These data presented in this PowerPoint presentation are primarily related and you refer to only one information as I understand the number of study programs. It was obtained from official sources that, not the fact that the ministry collected them from certain countries, it is under number one. Under number two, that we in Croatia have disintegrated large universities like Zagreb which have legal personality and in universities unlike some other countries, where one institution is then observed with the total number of study programmes, this was not the case in Croatia, but all of them, all colleges declared the number of their study programmes, but in principle it is not a key element of the whole opening part of the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119018	Thank you, thank you. Comrades Majda Buric's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119019	Thank you. Dear Minister Fuchs, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I certainly welcome the intensities of this law that go in terms of more and better transparency of funding and responsible management of public money. What I must also say is that you have withdrawn as much as 7.5 billion kuna from the NPOO for science, research and education, and I find it extremely, extremely valuable. As far as the scholarship system itself is concerned, if I have good data, nearly 15,000 scholarships through the Ministry of Education and Science for socioeconomic and scholarship rates, for which you allocate more than 108 million kuna annually. Now, I'm interested in the following, whether it would be opportunistic to consider whether it would be worth considering introducing a kind of new fee or a new scholarship that would motivate students, students of teaching colleges to work in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119020	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119021	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, teacher and teacher problem in the first order of mathematics, physics and some other natural sciences in our schools is very large. Yes, we have very few students who are enrolling in teaching classes in this category. We're thinking about introducing a scholarship just like that, we have to sort of regulate it in some way, thinking goes in the direction of giving very generous scholarships, so much bigger than the current ones that are being shared. All we have to do is sort of solve the possibility that these students who have such good scholarships and type in those directions and do that part later in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119022	Thank you. My colleague Sabina the Voice has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119023	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, from your opening presentation, it was concluded that this new Law on Higher Education and Science, you see as some kind of a cuneiform start that should correct all the irregularities, holes and failures observed so far, which in some ways did not result from science and higher education in society achieved the effect they should have. However, from your answer to my colleague Hajdukovic, I don't think that in that part of it you're going to make a cuneiform start because you yourself said that you are aware of the injustices that are happening in high schools towards teachers of language professions or lecturers at the university and that this is the thing that should be solved by internal acts of higher education. In fact, you've made it clear that you're aware of the problem, but you're not going to solve it because you know very well that without a definition set out in the law, it won't be possible. With this law, you solve art associates and lecturers through three levels or opportunities to advance, and in an unfavourable position you continue to leave just these foreign language teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119024	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119025	Thank you. Yes, I answered that because I really think that if there is a good will and desire within the high schools themselves, what this law allows them can be resolved by their internal arrangement because we said that they define the election at the workplaces and so on, but I accept that in consultation with the deans of those institutions that have such personnel we try to see if there's anything that can be done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119026	Thank you very much. The next replica is a colleague of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119027	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister. Issuing for research and development is one of the key tools for the development of one single society's economy, and we know that the R & D allocations in Croatia are below the level that is in the EU, and that what Europe also sets out is below what is, for example, below what is. Isolating some more dynamic economies in Asia. In this regard, my question, what is your assessment of the impact of these measures that has led to a better integration of public funding and the outcome of the university to the level of separation for research and development in Croatia in scale and in some time perspective in order to achieve that level that has today been the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119028	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119029	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119030	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119031	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stier, it is necessary to seek to increase investment in science and research, particularly with an emphasis on research and technological development. That is why we have provided a very significant amount of funds and from these funds obtained through the NPO which will be distributed through the agency through the Fund for Science and Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia. The amount has increased continuously from the state budget itself, but either I think unseriously on my part that in these circumstances of the economic crisis and what we still cannot see to the end is what is coming and I am coming to make any promises, except that in any case I will try that amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119032	Thank you very much. My friend Bartulica, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119033	Thank you. Dear Minister, we are aware that there are many shortcomings in the existing system, but we are not sure that this proposal will correct them in the right way. In fact, Croatia stands out about 17 billion kuna for education and I am convinced that this money is not available in the best way. For example, as wages are calculated in public education as well as in health care, it does not motivate them to stay, and in particular we cannot attract the best scientists to come to Croatia when our public universities have no way of offering them something financially. In America there is huge competition among universities and struggles for the best brains, the existing model in Croatia does not open at all that possibility, unfortunately, especially when we look at a flat way of calculating salaries to everyone, whether they are good or bad. Do you think that should change?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119034	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119035	Not that I think it should change but should definitely change, but I will reiterate one thing, that universities are at the disposal of a whole range of other sources of funding, not only the state budget money, but certain universities or higher education institutions that work with the economy, and, if you want, individual universities are making significant funds and hiring people on projects. In this sense, we have not only cooperation mechanisms directly with individual companies in the economy but they have well-funded projects from EU funds. I don't mean these at the local level, but directly those that are within the Horizon and the like. In that segment, individuals may receive significantly higher salaries than those directly financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119036	Thank you. And the last replica of the opening exhibition of colleagues Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. In the version of the draft law which was at the public consultation, it was written in Art. 76. that a student in regular status cannot be in a working relationship or perform an independent activity. We felt that it was unfair, that it was too restrictive, of course for such persons would be reasonable to limit some of the rights of the student standard. Now you have changed that, you yourself said in your presentation that it is now possible to have the status of a regular student for persons who are in a working relationship or perform an independent activity, however that article. 76, which speaks of this, says that a student in a regular status who is in a working relationship does not exercise the right to subsidise costs of tuition and student standard rights. We think it's unfair, we don't see the real reason why these students wouldn't could exercise the right to subsidies. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] I'm asking for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119039	Dear Representative, there has always been a category of regular students and extracurricular students, those who could not study in the regular cycle at the time when it was planned, and the definition itself means that they do not study according to the regular study regime for some reason, were mostly enrolled by students who were employed, but unfortunately also by some who could not enroll in the regular section, and then enrolled with the payment of an extraordinary study. This is not meaningful in terms of not being in the very spirit and concept of a regular and extraordinary student. However, while respecting the fact that some study programmes at some universities cannot be enrolled in an extraordinary variant then it is allowed to be entered by those who work, however they pay both health and social so they are employees and have incomes of this work relationship activity [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] Which should also allow them to study free of charge. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119040	Thank you, Mr. Minister, you can take your place. We will now move to a debate on behalf of clubs and in the name of the club Mosta is the first colleague Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119041	First of all, I want to, yeah, you're not on behalf of the board, I skipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119042	I'm sorry I didn't ask, but on behalf of the board, a colleague will come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119043	It's all right, Your Honor, I respect your apology and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119044	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119045	Here he is, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, distinguished secretary of state. I need only on behalf of the home Board on Education, Science and Culture to say that this committee, in the capacity of the home working body, discussed this proposal at its 42nd session. I have the need to say that the committee is most votes, with 7 votes for and with 5 abstentions and not a single vote against the adoption of this bill, with an emphasis that all the objections made in the debate are made to the promoter in the final, final proposal of the law, so this points to that we also had one consensus on the fact that this law should, of course, be adopted with a whole series of remarks, with committee members and interested representatives in the debate welcoming the positive changes that the proposed legislative solutions have been made, which represent a reform step in improving the system of science and higher education and, of course, it is pointed out that some of these proposed solutions need to be completed. Now very briefly, as long as it allows me, I will only be very short of what is necessary, here in the opinion of the Committee's debate, it is pointed out, above all, that programme funding is actually a key reform element of this law, on the basis of which positive outcomes of scientific activities in the Republic can actually be achieved and in this sense the proposal is highlighted that indicators and criteria of the budgetary components of the programme contracts should be specified under this legislative proposal, not some other legal acts. The need for a more precise definition of the provisions relating to re-election to the job of teachers and scientists employed in higher education institutions and also to some provisions of the draft laws relating to the subsidisation of the costs of scholarship students, then we had doubts and we asked for further clarifications of the provisions of Article. 40 and 43, again related to the part relating to employment and the choice of teachers and scientists in the job, or more. We believe that the second reading needs to be done a little more precisely. We have, of course, looked back at the debate on the Committee on the status of language teachers of the professions at higher education institutions and here and through replicas we have already raised this issue and I believe that by the second reading, they will try to find someone, some solution for this group of very valuable employees at our higher universities. As regards the selection of members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development, it is stressed that one of the conditions for selecting future members should be excellence and quality. There was also a debate on the establishment of scientific institutes, a note that proposed legislative solutions reduce the role of scientific councils in relation to the administrative councils that are given this proposal to greater powers, so these are just some of the proposals that allow me, and I believe that the proposals and observations of the board will therefore overlap with the observations of fellow parliamentary representatives and I truly believe in the name of all members and members of the parent board that this is a reform step towards a better system and I also believe that, as we are at the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, through another reading to a final version of the law, we will even have some things stronger and better to define and find some better and more quality solutions and I believe that, as we are at the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we will have one consensus that, as well as here in the Assembly, we can achieve a consensus that we need this new law, and I want to make sure that we are able to make progress with all our efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119046	Thank you, colleague Bedekovic, now colleague Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119047	So let's start with the very report from the committee session that best defines the one famous that history is written by the winners. So as an interested parliamentary representative, I have been very active in all three hours, unlike many board members at the board meeting, and I have made reasoned remarks on the organisation of this parliamentary debate and on the law itself, of course you will not believe in the report itself, not even P of my observations. It is the first in a series of manipulations to be linked to the way this law tries not to be introduced but to hide from the Croatian public. The second is, of course, this assembly debate, which is expected to be attended by a dozen parliamentary deputies, given that the timing is Friday afternoon, a week before the meeting's opening, after Friday afternoon's vote, and no one will convince me, just as you are surprised that I am still surprised that you dared to do this on an arbitrary basis in HS, no one will convince me that your goal was to really have a debate on key reforms in science, not one, not one, but a key one in the last 20 years. Your goal was to make everything as quiet as possible, to make less and less parliamentary representatives and interested public and media involved in this debate and consequently make this law a Croatian reality without great noise. Another thing we could learn from the so far-exposed exhibitions and the remark that the government continues to praise itself. I said I could only express my admiration for Minister Piletic's praise for the work of Minister Fuchs. I just wish that relations in that government were a little more personal, so that they don't call each other social partners, but to say nicely, Minister Piletic commended my work and I am glad that they finally move on to you. What concerns me the most 11 years ago was that my first public advances in the scientific community were linked to the law package that the current and current Minister Fuchs was making. At that time, the atmosphere in society was completely different. The academic community reacted very actively to the proposed package of legal changes and turned it down most of the time, which is why it was eventually not adopted. I was then able to accompany together in this debate some current active parliamentary representatives and some leaders of the city of Zagreb who, regardless of their different ideological commitment, fought on the same side for the purpose of preserving the autonomy of the university and criticising the commercialisation of science and higher education primarily through programming contracts. No one's going anywhere today. Well, if only we had all activated and fought over different concepts of science, about different concepts of autonomy and supervision of the university. No, really actively looking almost to anyone anywhere. The Croatian scientific community can be said to have whispered, and given the way this week's schedule was constructed and our obvious lack of vigilance, I am afraid that the majority of the Croatian Parliament is in this topic and engagement, at least for now in the first reading on the way that it also whispers. And now I'm going to make remarks about the legal changes themselves. Your Honors Minister, I would really like you here to say that your concept of the relationship between politics and universities is such that you feel that political supervision of university autonomy is necessary. However, if we said so, then we could not speak at all about university autonomy because it implies the lack of political supervision, and at the same time we would be in conflict with our plan of resilience and recovery that insists on strengthening university autonomy and with all European documents that insist on the same on the trail of the Humbol University. However, I would like to see you publicly here unequivocally and sincerely advocate your own concept, then we could have an open debate in which we would oppose our views, so we could see what kind of university is not Zagreb, not Rijeka, not Zadar, but in principle what kind of university should be and who should be supervised. This is how we have a falsified debate where you claim to have more and more autonomy, and at the same time, through the law, you are unequivocally pushing political surveillance. What's this about? So we will go through our history and the future through different stages. We're going to have the worst rectors and the worst ministers, and we're going to have phases with the best rectors and the worst ministers, and sometimes we're going to have hope for that time and the best rectors and the best ministers. However, regardless of who was in a certain historical phase at the head of the ministry or the Rector of a particular university, we do not bring laws here because of persons, but for all time. And I really deeply believe that the university must be able and self-regulatory, not because it is perfect, it is far from that, but because there must be one social instrument that will always be willing to engage as a criticism of the current policy, and this cannot be the instrument that depends on that same policy. It's too little time to point out all the problems in this law, so I'm going to look at at least a few, although I know it's too much because I'm aware that what you're not going to say openly, and I will, our concepts are fundamentally different and that all the remarks that I'm going to tell you here are already well known. But it's not in your best interest to adopt them. When we talk about this autonomy where you are nominally claiming that there is an increasingly growing question is raised if it is indeed as possible that Article 81 explicitly states that scientific interdisciplinary fields of fields and branches and fields of art etc. The minister determines by regulation. So, one person at a political post, not more a wider national council with its experts, so the profession. That's what's crucial to science that's going to exist in the first place. Furthermore, when we talk about this same autonomy, how it is possible that in Article 86 we have a fully modified role of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, which becomes the primary advisory body and where it is transferred: The adoption of the criteria for the allocation of funds to ministers transferred to institutions, the granting of consent for the terms of the Rector's Assembly transferred to the Minister, the removal of the formation of scientific areas, fields and branches transferred to the Minister, the suspension of the definition of knowledge conditions, the removal of the establishment of parent committees by a given minister, etc. etc. So much for the university autonomy fleet, which may not be so important in our plans that we have served Europe, but must be important because it is Europe's priority that served us so probably the need to claim that you are strengthening it by your law. Furthermore, what is problematic here besides the key change in the powers of the minister and what is your already systematic march on institutions because you have done the same thing with other scientific institutions from the National Centre for External Education to the Croatian Foundation for Science, and who knows what awaits us in the future, is the relationship between private and public universities with the announced cutting of the public budget already underfunded and sub-disciplined public system of science, which means the obvious submission of private sector, the destruction of national institutions, the permanent destabilising of jobs for young teachers, the inability of demographic renewal, the increasingly difficult planning of families and so on. The software contracts that become a system for mixing enable the full submission of the institution or the scientist of the minister and create negative competitiveness instead of cooperation between the institutions that otherwise the leading countries in the world of science have already recognised as a dysfunctional concept that needs to be overcome. About the concept of the university council where the government has control over everything again I have already said enough, the question of scientific calling and the way they will exist in the future or cease to exist. Of course, all these remarks can be considered only if we think of Croatia as a country with our own identity and integrity. If you want to destroy that identity and turn us into one of thousands of business squares with an unregulated flow of capital and human goods, then it's the law, I'll congratulate you, quite in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119048	Thank you very much. On behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119049	Honorable ministers, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. What is most important is what is said about academic freedoms and university autonomy in this legal text. In that sense, I support the inclusion of the new chapter 4. 4.. The university autonomy primarily refers to the academic sphere of our action on research and teaching, university autonomy and the right of all university teachers and students to free critical opinion, and to the presentation of views based on scientific approach. It also refers to the freedom of choice of teachers and associates, and freedom of establishment. However, with regard to the availability of material resources, as well as with regard to the legality of conduct, it is quite clear that autonomy is not imagined without responsibility for the overall social community, it is necessary, therefore, that there is a body that represents citizens and society as a whole and protects the legitimate interest of all citizens that the university acts responsibly and legally. In this regard, we welcome the introduction of the university council as a supervisory body with the powers of their imagination. Art. The 12th is described as the composition of the Senate. The present concept of Senate composition has proved ineffective or incompetent to achieve its purpose as a common fact in our public life. The university management system according to which the Senate consists of persons in direct financial dependence on the rector and who do not have much space or motive for caring for the university as a whole has not proved successful. Therefore, it would be best by law to refer to several models of Senate assembly, and to leave the choice most appropriate at will for each individual university. All words shall apply to the article as well. 14. that describes the rector's choice. What we have now, and this law has proved to be a failed model, so then, then the same recommendation is applicable here, let's leave it to the statutes of universities, universities. We welcome the introduction of a funding model through programming contracts, but the proposed legal text is surprisingly lacking and incorrect in the provisions describing the scheme bargaining system. First of all, it's unclear when we talk about universities if they're contracting colleges and academia individually or universities as a whole. It is necessary to work out the mechanism carefully and each single step by negotiation. Furthermore, at least a framework of criteria to be valorised in the budgetary formula in each of the three components should be given. Furthermore, it is unclear how the results achieved in determining the performance component will be evaluated, and there is a series of illogicalities in what it writes. It is not logical that the number of students does not play any role in determining the basic budget component, which is currently written in art. 102, in section 5. It is also not logical to include funds for ongoing investment maintenance of teaching, scientific and artistic infrastructures in development rather than in the basic component. We object to the progressive reduction in the amount of the underlying component from year to year in case of non-contracting. We consider it appropriate in this case to determine the temporary financing of 95% of the basic component, without developmental and implementation, with the compensation of up to the full amount after the signing of the contract. In determining the basic component, it is necessary to provide that the underlying activity is primarily financed by the founder's and the dedicated revenues. We also suggest that when determining the development component, the university's own income is taken into account. Speaking of money, it is necessary to distinguish between own and dedicated revenues more clearly, it is especially necessary to say that the revenues from the tuition fall within the intended revenues. Similarly, it would be worth demarcating basic activity and complementar activity. The basics include scientific research, teaching and artistic activities, as well as professional work when it is a direct assumption or a consequence of scientific work or is in the quality of the teaching and scientific process. On the other hand, expert work for the market, for example. It should be explicitly defined in the supplementary activity and such professional work should be regulated by the rules on own revenue. When it comes to elections in job vacancies, promotions and re-elections are hardly said about scientific success or excellence. Only minimum conditions have been left in the jurisdiction of the National Council. A series of arguments can support the claim that Croatian scientific production is insufficient and insufficiently quality, even if we consider the lack of scientific money. The line should be raised and this law should lay the foundations of the criteria to be developed by the National Council. These foundations should certainly include some measure of international affirmation and an international echo of scientific results. The paradox is otherwise that some kind of excellence is required only from candidates for the post of assistant. The same trail should also consider how at least one member should come from an institution outside the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian academic community is small and in larger cases we have overlapping personal acquaintances with the assessment of success. And even more amazingly, no conditions of excellence are required for membership in the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. None. On the other hand, the law said that the election of members of the National Council would be taken into account. That's exactly the wrong way. It is upside down that we do not care about results and scientific reputation, and we also care about the law to enter some bureaucratic key. Furthermore, it is absolutely unacceptable that there is no mention of teaching criteria in the provisions on promotions and re-elections. Obviously, this is too quietly left to the jurisdiction of higher schools, but it is insufficient and the law must insist on teaching success. More with jobs, promotions and re-elections to say in individual presentations. And when we mention assistants, assistants have to be hired for six years and not shorter than that, we have to protect this most vulnerable group and stop the overwork. Even if assistants are employed on the resources of a scientific project for less than 6 years, it would be worth opening up space in a programming contract that the ministry is financing their contracts for up to a full period of 6 years because each such scientific project is a certain proof of success and it is reasonable to be thus valorised in determining the performance component. Furthermore, it is necessary to introduce an ethical commission at both university and national level, the reasons for this are obvious. In the recent past, we've had more cases where there were doubts about the ethics of the head of the facility and even the rectors and the proctors. Apropo, in Article 86, states that the National Council brings down minimum ethical principles. Minimal ethical principles do not exist. There are only fundamental or general and special. And at the very end, but not at all. In Article 79(1), the student who studies in regular public higher education status shall exercise the right to subsidise scholarship costs from the state budget in accordance with Article 102(10) of Regulation (EU) No 1020/2013. That Regulation concerns the editing of the details of the programme contract. There's nothing more to be said. It is completely unclear how long and under what conditions this right frees a student from paying for participation in tuition costs. It seems he intends to leave himself at the will of high schools. But I think it's said here, and then it's given too little. This is an opportunity to step out of the law and to guarantee that legal students are free from the cost of participating tuition not only in the first year but at least in the second year of their studies as well as in any subsequent year, provided that they have achieved some prescribed minimum ECTS in the previous academic year. Here, these were the most important or first comments and remarks. It will continue in individual exposure. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119050	Thank you, thank you very much. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, a colleague, Stephen Nikola Bartulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, respected ministers, secretary of state, certainly not a good sign that the assembly is almost completely empty. I agree with that finding that this is causing a great deal of concern. This is a very important topic, and I would say it deserves a term to maintain a real, lively debate on Croatia's future. I said in the replica that we can't be satisfied with how in Croatia there are 17 billion kunas that belong to the ministry's budget. I'm going to look back at the parts of the law, I've got a lot of objections in the last few weeks, impossible to look back at all these points, there's a lot of them, but I'm going to at least try to highlight what I think is most important. So he would say it's indisputable that in our higher education system he's in a continuous crisis, a governing crisis. And here, first of all, I think of human potential. So we must face being in a competitive environment and other countries fighting within the EU, but also broader for the best students but certainly also the best professors. It's an environment, and if we fail to deal with it, we will remain even more vulnerable than we are now. It's one fact, sometimes it hurts, but if we don't admit it in the right way, I think we'll keep going around in circles. So when I ask my students about whether they think it's just, for example, that teachers who are in a certain calling all by the coefficient they have earning about the same no matter what effect they have and how hard they try to organize teaching and transfer knowledge, they react immediately that they are not just. That there's got to be a way to make a difference. If that's not found, and that's true for public health, the same principles, we're going to stay in a situation where the best go away, just nothing motivates them to stay here, let alone if someone from abroad wants to make a career here, it's very rare cases. Therefore, we will have to simply accept it and now the question is how do we achieve it? It is not a solution just to raise more and more money for the existing system if nothing important changes. So as for these councils of new universities, the university council, I would say there must be a need to monitor how big money is spent, however, I'm not sure the best way to concentrate power in the hands of the minister. So we see around the world attacking that teaching and certain studies are even politicized for ideological purposes and this attack can be even greater in the political arena. So the question arises, today-to-morrow, if some minister is headed by a system that has a strong ideological agenda, I'm not going into it now, which he wants to impose his ideas on, and perhaps through human resources, he's holding back the possibility of those he disagrees with, to act, how, what is there in this proposal to prevent such abuses today-to-morrow? So we must always be very sensitive to the attack, to the possibility of abuse of power. It is not always in Croatia, unfortunately, in practice that political power is used best, it is more often abused than used in the interests of students and other people. So, we have to be very careful here, very careful, I would say, about the general situation, so I had the opportunity and the honor to talk to a leading intellectual from Canada recently in Zagreb, Jordan Peterson, who shared his experience with me from the academic world of North America, and it didn't look very good. So he's as leading scientist in the end, he had no other way out than to resign in his place. His colleagues and the leadership of his University of Toronto were not at all concerned about why he left, so there is a tendency to narrow down the space of freedom of speech, in general at universities and this should concern us, and I would like to see this law and this awareness come to light. Secondly, I'd say, about this model and how we're gonna treat our best students, and I'm saying this for them, for them. So they're interested in getting the best education. And to realize after that happiness that they think that in the best way, will it be in Croatia, God forbid, but unfortunately as my parents have left our country before, so a large number continues to behave today and why not? It's a big world, there are great possibilities, and we need to be aware of that. I was talking yesterday about how students and their parents probably don't know how much their schooling costs. If you are a regular student in Croatia and fulfil all obligations, mostly no matter what study you are studying, you are studying free of charge and completing a study without obligation to the country that has made it possible. But what is it? And employers abroad who are looking for our best students today and tomorrow as many will be employed outside Croatia by now. They have no obligation to us. So we have great people, talented individuals who are wanted, we see in medicine, we're going to stay in some branches without a doctor, that's true for dentists, for engineers, for IT experts, for others, so how are we going to deal with how we're going to get big money out of their education, and their future employers have no obligation to anyone? If these were to be included in some EU-level balances, it would show how much Croatia is actually helping and contributing to the development of many countries, not just its own. Therefore, this is to be discussed openly. Finally, I would say that the Homeland Movement is very critical of this bill, we are aware that there are many shortcomings in the system, however, this question for the end of the most, how to increase the scale, raise the scale, how to increase responsibility? I think the experience still shows that the best way through competition is through competition. So, as in health care, our scientific system hasn't been reformed since the '90s, we're lagging behind for more reasons for others, we're not recognized as an attractive destination, neither for students nor for foreign scientists, and we have to, I would say, change something urgently. And in mentality, but also in legal solutions. Here, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119052	Thank you. A colleague, Darko Klasic, will speak on behalf of the club of representatives of HSLS and reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119053	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS. Honorable ministers with associates. After the previous Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education was completed nine times and the changed time matured for a completely new law. Namely, the current law came from a long time ago in 2003, and the latest additions were made in 2017. The new law should strengthen the supervision of university work because, instead of the university council, it proposes the establishment of university councils whose members are appointed Senate and founder of the university. This enables the legislative provisions to be more effective in achieving the purpose for which the university has a constitutional guarantee of autonomy, and on the other hand, the right of the founders to monitor the legality of work and the intervention of the public university body is respected. The local administration and self-government in the future will no longer be able to establish new higher universities or will establish and control the state. Unfortunately, the current one led to labour market disturbances because often the registration quotas were not in line with the real needs of the market but were exclusively subject to the financial profit of the institutions although such registration creates long-term damage to the entire education system of the labour market as public money for citizens. This problem has been particularly expressed so far and in part of the compulsory traineeship at health institutions. In view of the fact that a major proportion of health school students have been waiting for a traineeship for years because the capacity of health institutions is often insufficient to ensure a traineeship for all students. I am sorry that in the public space and before the public debate, it continued to discredit this law by disinformation and by creating concerns among students. It was already in the public debate that there was no reason for this and that students did not remain without acquired rights but were no technically different from the previous version of the law that was passed almost 20 years ago. I am pleased that employers and trade unions have recognised and supported the importance of introducing high education and science funding software contracts, thus aphiding the purpose of university autonomy, then introducing mandatory previous accreditation before the establishment of study programmes to stop their uncontrollable increase which... detachments from jobs. It was necessary to define mechanisms and constitutions within the university to enable both citizens and taxpayers to achieve their legitimate interests and influence the responsible work of the university. This could only be ensured by means of the intermediation and active role of the state in overseeing respect for the legality and financial management of the university, i.e. in the context of university autonomy. In particular, I would like to commend the legislative provisions relating to academic and professional names, i.e. the correction of long-term injustice and discrimination against students of professional studies. I have spoken about this subject several times in the assembly and in collaboration with the student initiatives 300 is 300, has worked systematically for a long time on this problem and I am extremely pleased to see that the promoter, i.e. the Ministry of Science and Education, has heard and understood the student needs. I am also pleased that the Ministry of Science and Education has been open to proposals and has accepted the comments of a large number of students, following a public debate, and has made it clear that it respects students as essential factors of education. I also welcome the provisions on enrolment of students in postgraduate studies, and I also believe that a guilty long-term practice has been corrected according to which postgraduate studies and further education have been virtually inaccessible to students of professional studies. The new provisions provide an opportunity for students who want to improve further in their fields to do so in Croatia, rather than in some neighbouring countries so far. I find it extremely important for the Croatian economy because such an approach gives us top experts who allow education in our country, but stay after the studies which will certainly contribute to better economic, economic and demographic images of Croatia. A simpler procedure for the recruitment of teachers, collaboration scientists and the advancement of teachers and scientists is laid down as a new model of funding for public higher schools and public scientific institutes and regulates the status changes of higher schools and scientific institutes. One of the major changes refers to a simplified choice for job space and progress within the system, and we particularly welcome the proposal that, after five years, if science meets the requirements, progress automatically without asking for approval from the ministry and without calculating with coefficients. We also welcome the shortening of the procedure, which in some cases extends to more than a year. No matter what we consider to be in the article. In 40 and 43, it is not necessary to insist that all members of the expert commission be from the same scientific field and field, they should be more or more hierarchical levels as well as that at least one member of the commission be from the same scientific area or field in which the candidate is elected. In interdisciplinary institutions, it is not always possible to appoint all members of the commission from the same scientific field and fields for which the selection is carried out, given that the expert commission's report has to be certified by the parent committee, which checks whether the approach to scientific criteria is satisfactory, we believe that it would actually improve the selection process for scientific jobs. HSLS welcomes the adoption of the new Science Act, especially because the original law, which was amended on several occasions, was adopted in 2003. We believe that the adoption of this law represents a positive step forward and improvement for scientists as well as for the academic community as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119054	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Uh, where do you start? So, first of all, I think we need to expose some myths, when we talk about the great and courageous reform of dear colleagues and colleagues, this is all of some major comprehensive reform, let alone the brave. I agree that there are some good things in this legal solution, definitely there are, but that we could be more courageous and more determined, absolutely we are. As the previous law only changed 13 articles probably just to improve and speed up some human resources within the HDZ, or who will run the agency, so we could hit a little bit, a little deeper here as well. Although it is a new law, although it is a whole series of articles, I think the changes are far from what we need and what system we need. So let's get going, let's get going. As I mentioned earlier, I think that the status of language teacher of the profession is employed by higher education institutions should be evened into an equal position with other equal or similar jobs employed in higher education institutions. I am an Englishman with whom my colleagues who are in that system meet are reduced to, to lecturers, lecturers to practically accompanying, not teaching and scientific staff. And I don't think that this should leave it to individual universities or universities to regulate themselves, but it should be legally evened because these people are also working on teaching and also producing scientific papers and should be made possible even though they don't work on language-only institutions, but they need to be given a level playing field, scientific advancement, but also evaluation primarily financially, and then each other's work. It's one of those, like, one of those minor things that this law could have solved, and it didn't. I hope until the second reading that things will get better. The second thing is he tells us the minister of this law should be competent in the European context. I will remind you only of the last rank, the last ranking list since 2022 no Croatian university is in the first 500 of 2000 universities. In front of us are retail universities from all parts of the region. This tells us about the quality of our higher education and scientific system, or how much it really needs to be changed and how much more transparent and more active it needs to become more proactive so that we can tackle the challenges of modern education. The third thing I intend to underline is the link between the higher education system and the labour market. So, at the previous point, I was saying what kind of relationship it is about our high school system. Unfortunately, we also paint this same system in higher education. And why am I talking about it, and why is that even relevant? Of course, as a relatively small country, we have to cultivate some humanistic branches that are particularly important to us and which may not be of interest to us in a broader picture, but definitely to us that, like history, I don't know ethnography or anything like that. However, in public universities, public money is funded by the education of students in surplus professions. I'll just tell you how these things move. So there's a long-term lack of experts who end up in electrical engineering, computer engineering, engineering, construction, medicine and pharmaceuticals. This is the key technical and biomedical discipline that largely depends on the material standard of life and the health of citizens, and I think you'll all agree, and unlike those that are deficiting are surpluses, for example. a study of economics, business economy, administrative law, philosophy, politology, journalism, communicology, sociology, ethnology, design, fashion design, etc., not trying to underestimate any of these interests but constantly talking about the STEM area, we are constantly talking about a stronger and more determined incentive of study from STEM area, unfortunately our entire system is set up wrong when children are not actually directed from primary education to STEM, either towards something else, when we are not working systematically with the gifts, when we cannot even devote ourselves enough to those with special needs. So we have a severe lack of system that should be the foundation, and a high, higher education system should be an upgrade. I also think that universities should be more clearly encouraged to be proactive and innovative in offering studies and programmes as part of their constituents. Some universities do this better, some weaker, but reality shows that more and more interdisciplinaryism and in fact flexible study models are becoming more and more demanding except perhaps in the Croatian market, but in the West they definitely are because in some due time you will not only be a lawyer or only an economist give you an example, and you will not know if you are an economist you will take colleges from international law or international trade or European public law, European private law or I do not know from English, Germanist, Hungarology, Turkishology. Why? So that they would make themselves competent on the market. Economists no longer need anyone, but if you're an economist and a Turkologist it reveals to you again one other niche since a lot of Turkish companies are working on the Croatian market or I don't know a jungarologist or now a third Anglist, so it doesn't matter. But modularity, flexibility and interdisciplinaryism is something that is the future, and I don't see in this law that we've given any more formal framework to this. The Croatian qualification framework is something that is often mentioned here, but at least I often mention it. Sometimes it seems to me and only a few other colleagues remember that at all. I'm glad the minister mentioned it today. I don't think he fully lived up to the way he was supposed to and that in higher education but also at all other levels of education, it doesn't work and it doesn't give the sense that he should have and how he was originally imagined. Why? Well, the Croatian Qualifications Framework is actually this modularity and flexibility that I'm telling you about, extra-institutional education, lifelong learning and education has become a requirement that simple market dictates to you and since the market is changing very quickly, that I said that both high school and primary school systems are quite reactive there, the trom and changes slowly, we haven't been able to build a correlation between these two. And also, when we mention university autonomy, I absolutely agree that university autonomy should exist, but university autonomy can't be an excuse for spending public money as someone likes it. And that's why I've been talking about studying surplus professions, which is why I'm talking about this, so universities can be and should be autonomous in some respects, and especially if they do, I think the minister mentioned it, if they have studies and programs that they finance themselves, which are funded from tuition and which are actually funded on their own account. So they weren't necessarily financed by public money. However, when it comes to public money, I think it needs to be much more careful, that it needs to be much more efficient and that, after all, the public money we do not want to finance permanent students, the hyperproduction of students who will be in surplus professions. This does not mean that teachers will find themselves on the street or should because they are scientists and teachers. So one does not exclude the other, even though, and if they have a reduced teaching obligation, they should have an increased scientific obligation and therefore I say that this law did not bring that flexibility into the system that I expected because unfortunately this system is often slaved to many inflexibility. And that is why I hope that by the second reading we will really get, and at least part of what colleagues from the ruling ones have said about this Law. More comprehensive, braver, more determined and rooted new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119056	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. On behalf of the SDP Club representative, a colleague, Sabina Vosovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State, As you yourself stated in the introduction of the bill itself, EU citizens' access to the higher education and science system of other EU members has been significantly facilitated, however, this same mobility has, on the other hand, put the challenge in competitiveness, as increasing mobility reduces intellectual capital key for economic and social development and this main challenge that is set before us is how to maintain and increase competitiveness and thus retain and attract intellectual capital and thus save our country from intellectual and economic dying. For all of us, Croatia should be better, and higher education and science are the way towards happiness, and I believe that there is a consensus between all MPs and beyond HS, in that part. It is clear that Croatia also needs a new system of regulation of higher education and science. That we need to bring it into line with the affinities, first of all, students, after that with the strategic development interests of the Republic of Croatia, and then with the needs, I will not say labour markets but the needs of society. To achieve that goal, we need greater cooperation between the university and the state because they do not go without each other, but we also need greater cooperation within the university. What we have witnessed in some universities in recent years has been rivalry, even hostility. That's not good. The university must remain, and those who are still not, must become places and divisors of intellectual curiosity, academic honesty, democracy, free thoughts, responsibilities and generators of society's development must be a clear and loud voice in society. Of course, we are not satisfied with the silence that often comes from the academic community because their voice, so it is critical, would be extremely important for the progress of the Republic of Croatia. However, universities must not be the places of the self-will of its leaders, abuse of positions and powers, accounting, control, closed cells, financial irresponsibility and complete social disinterest and secession. Autonomy which means protecting and improving academic rights and the freedom of individuals to, but autonomy as a self-will facility, autonomy as a cover for calculating autonomy and individual freedoms, no. Autonomy without financial responsibility, no. Autonomy with the sole purpose of money, the acquisition of financial resources and the distribution of it on the basis of obedience, support and interest netting, which forgets two key elements, i.e. 3 key elements. They are a student, a teacher and a social interest, not at all, and that is what we unfortunately face in Croatia in recent years, and unfortunately we have not found an adequate answer so far. This Law offers a number of quality legal solutions whose implementation can contribute to the improvement of the science and higher education system in the Republic of Croatia, such as removing discrimination in relation to professional education, through enabling the transition to professional ones, from professional to university vertical under certain conditions, equating titles, facilitating the process of advancement to jobs, strengthening the responsibilities of the institution for management over a number of years, new ways of supervision and control, decommissioning the university to a new university, all of these are good ideas, but as I have said to the Committee, a lot of these improvements are insufficiently defined or poorly defined in this Bill Proposal in the first reading, which can lead to unwanted consequences in the application of this law. So I will make my contribution to make this Law better between the first and second readings. With new solutions for institutes, we are concerned about strengthening the role of administrative councils, weakening the role of scientific councils, or scientists themselves, especially their marginalisation in the adoption of a mission and strategy for the development of their scientific institutions and scientific policies. The Scientific Council should be able to manage its own development through the adoption of its own policies, thereby contributing to the community's well-being. Programme financing or multi-annual funding as one of the key reform elements of this law is a path that can achieve positive outcomes of scientific activities in Croatia, but as defined in the law will not achieve its purpose. There is no further development in terms of budgetary formulas, more precise determination of three components, the content of the negotiation process, the criteria, the evaluation of the results, who values, by which criteria, who brings the criteria. This funding model, as I said, has great potential if it is developed in a way that will allow for raising working conditions, financial support for research and development, offer objective evaluation criteria, and establish a clear system of interdependence, success and investment results. What we find unacceptable is the reduction of students' acquired right to represent 15% in college bodies, which is reduced to 10% by this bill. It is clear to us that the intensity of this has been reduced, or at some universities, in particular at one university where student representatives, like that crucial or decisive factor in the election of university leaders and its constituents, have been very often abused, but we believe that this can be resolved in another way and the independent union in science and higher education has given one possible solution. It's good to leave the system of scientific teaching, but this is not well-defined enough. As regards the criteria, it is only stated that there are national criteria and additional criteria without at least general provisions, which would imply, whether it is excellence, international recognition or something else, third. Only in the case of assistants is the criteria to be chosen from the ranks of extremely successful students. In programme contracts we continue to believe that there is not enough main eu development, open science, reform of the system of evaluation of scientific activities, and a strong orientation to innovation and a two-way transfer of knowledge, micro qualifications and a European student card, strong networking... and European universities, internationalisation, gender equality, digital and green transition. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 19th, programming contracts are forecasted again, we said, "It's not there now, it's not clear whether it's a university or its If a programme contract is to be negotiated or negotiated at university level, it will lead to further fragmentation of money, resources and powers. The same shall apply to the additional criteria for the selection and election of emeritus referred to in the same Article. 54. We believe that these two things should remain at the university level, part of it being solved. The 98rd century, but not entirely. However, behind the emeritus, it is not clear why it is listed as so far as its own, why it is not cited as so far that their scientific and artistic work has been particularly highlighted and achieved an international reputation. As defined in Art. In 54, it turns out that anyone, now not to say "shush," close to the Dean, will be able to be an emeritus. It is particularly characteristic that in the system in which immorality and plagiarism remains the Committee on Ethics, the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education disappears. The fact that ethics is passed on to high schools themselves through art. 55th, and no more national committee, and that no second-degree instance is envisaged at all is catastrophic, especially in... All kinds of doctors, Vice. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was clear that it was not gossiping when the debate took place between the other and former Minister Barisic. It is probably not up to the political structures to decide independently and to know about it publicly, but for the system for this disaster and yet another significant distance from all trends in the developed countries of the world and in this aspect of ethics we must insist on. It is also introduced to the newspaper that the rectorial assembly is made up of rectors of all universities, therefore private. Since the rectorial assembly has public powers, let's say it proposes members of the National Council, proposes members of the parent committees, proposes to the National Council of Education and Expert Elements of National University and Scientific and Art criteria, it participates in the negotiation process for the conclusion of a collective contract for higher education, scientific and artistic activities. There can be open space and there can be unhealthy intertwination of public powers and private interests. All of us are in the interest of public money going where it is necessary, where the kuna will be invested in the system of science and higher education will be returned to benefit, benefit and in the interest of society. And what is not yet quite clear, which is that we must be careful that in this drive to introduce control and control in spending our money which must be wisely invested in order to be socially comprehensive, so that we do not go to another extreme political and party surveillance and I see no reason, and I will talk about it a little bit more in an individual debate, that HS as the founder of public higher schools is actually excluded from so far very important decisions and insight into the work of individual bodies extremely important for the functioning of science and higher education systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119058	Thank you. A colleague, Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119059	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We understand the context within which this bill was made or the amendments to the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity. On the one hand, the emergence of autonomy rather than autonomy at some universities, not to use any other word, on the other hand, the need to increase efficiency in the absorption of funds that the Republic of Croatia or the Government can provide to improve the higher education, higher education system and scientific activities, but at the same time we cannot remain deaf to warnings coming from the university and scientific community when the preservation of autonomy or fears that exist in this respect are that the matter with some solutions in this bill go towards reducing autonomy or creating an area of autonomy. So the question of the fundamental principle of whether we will have university bodies within which members of the university and the scientific community will not make up the majority but will do so by other groups in society, we need to think about it. We began to build a system in which the university was strengthened, and I studied for the first year of my scientific work and teaching work at a time when the university was far from university. This proposal we have could be recognized as leading us in this direction, especially when programmes and funding and other things are in place. So, I'd like to pray on behalf of the SDSS Club to think about how this principle is that in the university bodies and bodies of research institutions and academias in particular at the level of the university we have people who will be, where most of them will be made by people who come from scientific and university professions. Secondly, we think of what is meant to be achieved by this law, which is stronger and stronger, stronger developmental momentum in higher education and in scientific activity, something that should not reduce the powers of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. It is not a guarantee that we will succeed in our goal that we reduce it solely to an advisory role or to give it a primary advisory role. I understand the intensity, I support the intensity, but the question is, are we not going to get into a situation where we actually have a bureaucratized administrative apparatus that won't be able to communicate properly with that body, and the body won't have adequate powers like the intensity of having them right now? The role of the assembly that discusses this law when it comes to selecting members, say the university council or the national council, should not be reduced. You should think about whether it's a reduction, whether it's a substitute for some other solution better than what we have here. I will not say that the assembly is an ideal body in this regard, but the assembly is in any case a place where more votes are heard, a place where more thinking is heard in this respect and a place where the public has an opportunity and others have the opportunity to hear more thoughts than if it is determined in circles that are not as public as the assembly. As far as the university is concerned, I understand we have too many, but we have too many private. If one does not achieve what is expected, which is why we think we have too many, who guarantees that it will be followed by another, except perhaps for the founders, but for what the ministry wants, which means that the quality of education is at that level, I am not sure that we will achieve, in some sense, the criteria of accreditation for this sphere liberalise, if I understand the intensities of the legislator. Okay. If I'm not then we just need to think about that segment as well. So, if we want improvement and rationalization, then let's apply the criteria for everything. As far as the issues of the funding of university members are concerned based on their activities, it is an old dispute, the old dispute was before universities became, larger entities, more important entities than colleges, and are now too big a problem. It creates a serious impression of reducing autonomy if the ministry is to limit this type of use. I understand that there are some places and some cases in which there is a legitimate question by the ministry, but you should watch how not to look for a solution that will cover everything and those that shouldn't actually be covered. Perhaps I am not prone to replicas when ministers speak because there are too many and because sometimes they have no meaning of a serious call for debate, and how long I have been in the assembly then I prefer to leave it for this kind of debate. So, the question of the rector's choir and the composition of the rector's choir. Whether the state of private universities in our country is such and so developed and promoted that we need to expand the space for their participation in the rector, I have nothing to do with it being strengthened and being developed. It has no objection to opening up for reinforcements, but whether an existing solution has found the best measure in this regard or whether it should consider that there is no wrong impression on the part of the public university representatives to open up space for something that needs to be done a lot more when it comes to decision-making and co-determination at the university or in the rectoral assembly. And last thing I'd like to say is, I have a certain amount of understanding when it comes to the role of the ministry. In order to avoid the risks we've been going through over the past years and still to go through certain measures especially with some universities that have actually made autonomy autism, and inside that I won't further qualify what. But it is important to be careful that neither the minister's authority nor the ministry's powers always have the most ideal solution. This can come to the level of officials who do not have to understand things the way those who do so would understand them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119060	Your time is up, thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now be spoken by counterpart Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119061	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now I'm going to count you again, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and not, I think I have to count because I'm really going to agree here what I sometimes find hard to say is that I agree with my colleague Selak Rasupdic, but I'm going to agree with her now that this is really sad that we are talking about this important law in this time of Friday afternoon after the vote, and here we are interested here as much as I counted, six and chairing seven. So, really embarrassing. To tell, perhaps, we want to call this a fairy tale that our ultimate goal is developed Croatian society. So, has Croatian society developed any fairy tale? So, an integral part of every advanced and developed society is a developed system of higher education and science and technology as one of the main drivers of economic development, social progress, preservation of cultural identity, job creation, improvement of quality of life, but also the meeting of personal needs, desires and potential for creative and innovative work. Under a developed system of higher education and science, we mean a system that exists essentially in the advanced countries of Europe and the developed world that enables the development of new technologies, processes and services as well as environmental protection, facing social challenges and the possibility of a systematic approach to the long-term development of the country. This also implies a stronger integration of this system with society and economy with the aim of developing and strengthening the systems and societies themselves, businesses and industry. People, scientists and teachers are the most important and important value of the science and higher education system in Croatia. The new legal framework should include a change in the choice of leaders, management methods, the integration of universities and the rationalisation of institutes, with a significant increase in financial resources. However, only an increase in financial resources without significant changes in the system would not produce the desired results. So, higher education today in Croatia is crying out for reform as well as all other spheres of society, but when we talk about the sphere of education, higher education and science, we are talking about the foundations of a society that is a condition for its growth. Higher education therefore cries out for reform which will establish a system on the same principles on which it operates in developed countries. A reform that will ensure that the criteria of progress, the criteria of choice both in calling and all functions in the system of high education of rectors, deans, members of the National Council, all other functions are exclusively the excellence and quality of candidates. I ask myself sometimes, in fact, often here we talk about excellence, quality etc., is it sad that in the 21st century when we talk about higher education we must even mention and emphasize, insist on excellence and quality and clear criteria equal to everything. So, what does that mean if we keep mentioning that we do not have these criteria in this system of higher education until today, so we do not have excellence and quality. So this law was long awaited, long worked on it, which we finally got. A simple comment on this law can be reduced to a sentence, so this is one step forward, but not brave enough. We can say that this is a camel, not a space shuttle that needed our higher education. We absolutely support the protection of public interest, control of the spending of public money and certainly support the change in this direction. However, whether the university council proposed in this form, in which the ministry can ultimately be very easy to have, is the right way, or because of the way members are chosen, is an opportunity to further politicise the entire system. Under what conditions has this law been passed? It was brought into the atmosphere when our largest university completely rejected this bill. After all the affairs of that university in recent years or better to say the affair of the current university rector, this law has been declared a blow to university autonomy. The history of the current Rector of the University of Zagreb will remember primarily by the fact that it is probably the first rector in history to sue his student, not to mention all other affairs in recent years, especially those in which he refused to control the university widely interpreting the concept of university autonomy. He did not provide information to the ministry or to the occupier, and I can say that the greatest here is I will use the word indecency to the rector, so here I am also refusing to call the Assembly Committee on Science, Education and Culture at the the thematic session on the situation at the University of Zagreb. So, we had a thematic session on the state of the University of Zagreb without a rector. The arrival was denied for a reason. Who's the board to summon me? Then, here we heard or I heard or the other day that this same rector was asking for a presence on the Science Committee to comment on this law, in order to hold some thematic session, so here I am ordering now and from this pay phone if you didn't want to come to one thematic session you don't need to go to another. Another rector who refused to attend the meeting of the Assembly Committee was the Rector of the University of Osijek when we talked about the quality of doctoral studies. The incentive for this thematic session was the age of an affair or an affair one with plagiarized PhDs, theoretical paradigms, etc. When it was discovered that a full truck of HDZs from Split-Dalmatia County went to Osijek, now they can travel on a train for 13 hours, so they have enough time to get a doctorate at the University of Osijek. Let us remember that the Faculty of Economics of the University of Osijek abolished the study programme, because the dean determined after the discovery of the affair that the programme was not high enough. Such unquality study programs have a real flood. The question is, do we need them in society and in the economy? Our number of students is dropping, the number of employees in the system is growing. So in such conditions this law was written. Why do we think a camel is not brave enough from a few key things that it doesn't touch? So, first the reactors and the deans are re-elected in the old way. So, this is not true that it is not legally defined in the law in Article 14 of the Honored Ministers is spoken of as the way the rector is elected and is said to be elected, chosen by the Senate from the ranks of professors in a permanent title. Therefore, the rector should not be chosen by the Senate, or individuals who are financially dependent on the rector, because it is a fertile place, therefore, a basis for trade. What it looks like to make a deal with 16 members of the Senate today. To some offers, you offer a post as a predictor, the others you offer employment, a few people to their colleges and very quickly, so you have authority. So it doesn't matter scientific excellence so that the most successful or successful ones don't appear as candidates because they don't stand a chance in such games. Those who have time to even deal with team games are so they, I would say, and unquality scientists. Those who are high-quality, successful and do not have, work hard and do not have time to deal with these games. Progress in this regard, as I said in the replica, has been shown by the University of Rijeka, who has somewhat democratisationd this process in line with the existing law, and here we call for this article to be amended. One of the rectors' selection models can be seen what it looks like in the world or some of the models are, for example, that for the four largest universities the rectors choose international experts or that rectors are generally chosen, selected by all university teachers. Another problem that has not been touched here, so there is no plan to revise social needs for professions, i.e. Newly opened colleges. They're mostly used to incriminate party personnel regardless of what we don't need. Furthermore, no electoral criteria are touched for teachers and scientists, i.e. It doesn't matter who's quality at all. You can advance to the highest academic positions by correspondence to other people's works in bad magazines. I will also point out the funding of science, it is stated in the introduction of the law, we are taking a terrible little money from the EU from the Horizon Programme that could be a major item in funding not only projects but also jobs for young scientists. Also a note on the opening of Croatian science. So there is no significant progress without Croatia attracting foreign students and scientists to study and work there and vice versa, that ours go to study and get PhDs out there. A typical here can say the typical European scientific department of the department has a colorful ethnic structure, people come from everywhere and go everywhere. All this creates a network of collaborations that can last throughout their careers. With us, such mobility is not at all encouraged as a concept or as a financial one. People are ambushed at the department, promoted to permanent calling, waiting for retirement, and thus obtaining a stalemated closed system. And certainly, in the end, one of the shortcomings in the abolition of an independent national ethical body particularly in the light of these pragic affairs, so that ethical debates are held at the university level or components or scientific institutes. Here's the affair itself showing what it looks like. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119062	Thank you very much, Mr. Puljak. Next in line is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119063	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the proposal for a law on higher education and scientific activity in the first reading. Here from all the debates so far it is actually evident that we all have the same interest, which is to improve the system of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia and we will all agree that this law is certainly also reformal and that it is actually a reform step forward towards improving and improving and modernising the system of higher education and scientific activities, and then certainly towards strengthening its transparency. And what is our current state of mind in the system of higher education and science? What is what marks the system of higher education? First of all, he's characterizing him? First of all, let us not forget that according to the data, we have a disproportionate relationship between the number of students enrolled and the number of study programs. What's going on? The number of high-school students is decreasing, and the number of study programs is constantly growing. According to the 2018 data, 1,473 study programmes were registered, and in February of this year that figure rose to 1,727, an increase of more than 18%. In doing so, the largest number of studies are organized and conducted in the social and humane field, with a disproportionately large number of students in economic and legal studies. The number of employees, on the other hand, at higher universities, has been growing unjustly compared to the continuing fewer and fewer students. According to only part of the data in 2016, the number of high-school employees was 14 630 and, say, at the end of 2021, 15 433 high-school employees. What is very important and important and necessary is the need to revise and improve the mechanisms that ensure, above all, the relevance of the study programmes in relation to the needs of the labour market, and then the relevance of the need for the number of students enrolled, let's not forget that today we have, unfortunately, a number of study programmes that exist, teachers are employed, and we don't have one, and sometimes there are two, three, four or five students, and I think that's a big problem. What I think is important and that it is important, it is necessary to revise and improve our outdated model of extra-institutional assignment of scientific or scientific teaching. It's only part of the problem in the higher education system. What does the system of science characterize for us? First of all, we need to be realistic and recognise that Croatia's research and innovation results are well below the EU average. And we need to be aware of the fact that according to the data and indicators, we are in the last place by the number of patents per capita with only 4.8 applications per million inhabitants, and at the same time, our European average is 106.8 applications. Unfortunately, Croatia is the third worst country in the EU on the European Innovation Success Board for 2020 The incoming mobility of foreign researchers and researchers who have achieved the academic degree of doctoral science outside our home country is less than 6%. Only the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, here they have a smaller share than Croatia and here we are also at the beginning. When it comes to the number of cited works, we are something above average, however, we have a very, very large number of unquoted works and we stand out with a large, large share of publications of poor quality. We must also be aware of this, finally, when it comes to the largest funding, research and innovation programme of the EU from 2014 to 2020. The Horizon, therefore, has provided more than 80 billion euros funded by the EC, and for projects under Horizon 2020, the Republic of Croatia has allocated a total amount of only 137m euros and we are really weak compared to other EU members and we are among the countries that have withdrawn the least funds for the Horizon programme and we need to be aware of that. Also, when we talk about a system of funding for higher education and science, we know and we are aware of this, and we need to take into account that the model of funding for higher education and science has experienced certain improvements, and we should also be realistic and say that we are progressing, these improvements have sought to increase the responsibility of public higher schools for managing financial resources, I mean the programme financing, however, the system of public funding, despite the shifts, is still insufficiently transparent and we still do not have enough effective monitoring mechanisms for programming contracts and results. That's what the practice has shown, and that's why we need to improve the system. This is just the part, part of the problem that we are facing, and these are just some of the reasons why we need to step forward and why we need this new reform law that we are considering today in the first reading and I think that the Law will in a flexible way regulate both the principles of governance and the principles of funding of the higher scientific research sector and will contain and already contain normative solutions that are related to the abolition of overlapping and misunderstandings regarding normative mechanisms that regulate the establishment of new higher educations, the launch of new budget programmes, the regulation of clear provisions on the internal organisation of universities, scientific institutes, the management of more flexible practices for the reception of teachers, students, the creation of new study programmes, the regulation of high educations and scientific provisions on the establishment of universities, scientific knowledge, scientific institutes, scientific institutions, scientific institutions, scientific institutes and the need to be very important to see all the important content of the new systems, the right and the right to understand me, and the right to be able to be able to be able to understand the right of the right of the public system, the right of the right way, the right way, the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right. We all agree that this is only the first reading, that there is room for a second reading for a number of improvements, for a clearer definition, a more concrete definition of certain provisions, the provisions of certain articles of this law, and that we are all here to contribute to a better and better quality law, and what I think is most important at the moment, is that we all want reforms and that we want to change, that we have a partnership with a resolute Ministry of Science and Education, and that we are all aware that we have a very important law in front of us, that the law that regulates relations in a highly important sector, which is a high education sector and a sector of scientific activity which is the key to the economic progress of each country, and thus Croatia, and therefore, by entering the EU, we need to be aware that our system of higher education must be in line with the European space of higher education, with the European research and the very fact that the existing law dates us from 2003. and that he has experienced 12 novelties so far, says that it is time to move into a new reform law that we hope will improve and flexible the system of high education scientific and scientific activities and make it more transparent in the future and in practice, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119064	Thank you very much. The position on the bill will now be held by distinguished counterpart Marko Milanović litre on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119065	Thank you, esteemed vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected ministers. The proposal for a Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity has met with a number of criticisms from experts in Croatia who have defined it to the very least as missing. A series of associations and individuals related to education and science have appeared to the Croatian Sovereigns Club with concrete problems of this law and general relations between the state and the state apparatus towards assistants, teachers, lecturers, universities, universities and higher schools. In this time outside the club I will try to present a small part of these problems in the hope that the government will correct something of the above before the second reading. I will start with what I asked Minister Fuchs during the replica, the business uncertainty of working on a specific or more bountifully secure on an undefined, unpaid or voluntary over-time and general attitude towards assistants are only some of the reasons for negative policy and long-term bad consequences for retaining, but also attracting quality personnel within higher education. By this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the ruling majority, should have more clearly defined the relationship, or prescribed the conditions for their work and the duration of the contract, which would provide them with the possibility of further education and training within the profession. It would be a concrete shift in the creation of a new highly educated professional staff that we lack in all parts of society, and it would also be a small incentive for demographics because at least a few young people would have one more reason to stay in their homeland. Furthermore, the science and higher education union points to the problem of the country's role at the university, so I quote. The law does not offer a relevant change in the role of the state at the university, the powers of the university council that are envisaged are not strong enough, the current way of selecting the rectors and the composition of the Senate of the university in practice has proved ineffective. The Rector should not be elected by the Senate or individuals who are financially dependent on the rector and enter the Senate as representatives of the particular interests of their own institutions. The members of the Senate should be elected as a whole, competent individuals who care about the entire university not only about the institutions from which they come. Personally, I'm always skeptical about the state's level of involvement in any matter and I always look at such processes with great skepticism and caution, but in terms of education, standards must be known and transparency must exist. Reading further the memo, trade unions themselves warn of the state's influence on academic issues. University management will continue to be problematic, and abuse of university autonomy will serve as a cover for the self-will of the leader and his alienation from founders and citizens. Although the state must not interfere with academic issues, it should have a control, financial issues and guarantees for responsible financial management, there must be a body that has the capacity to effectively monitor the legality and responsible conduct of the university administration, a body that represents citizens and taxpayers and protects their legitimate interest in the university functioning responsibly with the whole society. As a defense of inadequate management of universities and human resources, the law must introduce the right to strike for violations of academic rights and freedoms, and prevent manipulation of student representatives. We all understand how education in Croatia requires modernisation, but it is understandable how this transition must be meaningful, thorough and verified. We can't allow to crash into the unknown especially when we know that higher education forms future leaders and our homeland. The value of freedom and critical thinking within the education system must not only exist but must be nurtured by all of us. In education and science there must be no dogma, their goal must be to study and disseminate knowledge with that ultimate goal, which is to reveal truth. The trade union continues to look at the change in the introduction of whole programming contracts and says that the said segment of the law is underdeveloped, inaccurate and could lead to a number of problems in practice. It is necessary to define what is fundamental and what the additional activity of the institutions and to clearly assume the obligation to finance basic activities from general incomes and receipts. In view of the historical problems with system management and the increasing self-will and illegal actions of some members of the institution, it is certainly necessary to install protection of the provisions relating to salaries and the material rights of employees. The mass of payments provided for in the programme contract for the implementation of the basic activity shall not be subject to enforcement or re-use for other purposes of the institution. In addition, it is necessary to regulate the issue of the use of tuition and own income that can be financed by additional or development activities of the institution, but should not depend on the basic activity. The resolution ministry must finally adopt its own income rules and should be more clearly and more precisely regulated in the performance of the professional work market in the system and the use of second-income payments. This is just a small part of the problems that the professional public should be involved in and should be corrected before the second reading, until then Croatian sovereigns will decide whether or not to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119066	Thanks, buddy. We don't have any more reports on behalf of the clubs, so we're going to individual debates. First for an individual debate, the renowned colleague Marija Selak Rasdic was reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119067	On the issue of political control and university autonomy, I believe that I have said enough in the debate on behalf of the club although unfortunately this topic will not be deepened to the extent that it should be given the amount of parliamentary representatives who have remained to participate in this debate at all, and then the timing itself and everything else it tries to do, which is that this law is not discussed but merely passed. Many other issues are also important, and they are being opened by this law. Some of them also refer to the kind of research that will be financed in the future, so there are certain answers about when it comes to scientific centres of excellence relating to natural sciences that will be financed by applied rather than fundamental research, which is extremely dangerous because the Republic of Croatia is in the interest or should at least be in the interest of creating its own patents to make it simpler and then consequently that it can profit from them. If we are to finance exclusively applied research, then of course we will leave all the big ideas and money to develop abroad where our scientists who create ideas, and thus become the engine or the driver of the market itself, are going to leave unless they are just one wheel in, one that deals mainly with applied research. The second question, we often like to call on the foreign context as if only roses bloom outside, since I am also part of an international project I can say that even outside the situation is not great, and much more is now trying to implement this law in the Croatian educational system outside has already reached its limits, seen as a missed policy and is now trying to change, especially this competence and competitiveness that develops within scientists in a particular research area. They can also testify from the position of their own profession, which is that philosophers become increasingly managers whose productivity is measured by the amount of money they can provide to their university, not just secondary to their scientific works and scientific productivity. Personally, I have nothing against new, stricter, larger and stronger criteria, and I have nothing against neither financial criteria nor to measure the amount of cooperation we are able to achieve and thus develop our own programming contracts, and I have brought my own college through a contract of cooperation with the University of Oxford so that this is not a question of some of our wishes or pretents of what we can or can't but really how we think that the system of science should look. When we talk about how finance is being financed, I would also like to point out how through this legislative proposal colleges are being given to the programme contracts to depend on the ministry where the ministry is being given a discretionary role in assessing how much funding it will be allocated to each university. So, in fact, as much as 40% of the funds in relation to the basic financing of the institutions will be allocated by the minister to some kind of own decisions based on his own judgments, I don't know the impressions, political economic views, etc. Article 102 of the bill states the following, the content of the programme contract, the budgetary form is an indicator of the criteria for determining the level of the share of individual budget components, the negotiation process and the deadlines for the conclusion of the programme contract and the qualitative and quantitative indicators for measuring the effectiveness of the objectives set by the programme contract by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation. Which one and what? It is important to prescribe by law, not to leave the discretionary decisions of a few people because we know where this has led us and where it can lead us in the future. When I said that public universities are being discriminated against in the rectoral assembly, it is not a question of including private universities but of whether it will be under the same conditions as public universities, and here it is planned to be even though their role is very small given the fact that they receive 25% of the votes in the rectorial assembly, with 3.55% of students and 1.54% of teachers and co-workers based on the contract of work. So, since time is approaching, I'm going to have to stop, but I'm going to come back again and when we see funding, and when we see a way of understanding surveillance, we can talk exclusively about political surveillance and taking control of the university. consider counterproductive [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] which will ultimately destroy the autonomy of Croatian science. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119068	There's going to be an opportunity to finalize something else. A colleague Marko Milanović litre has a replica of you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119069	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. Well, here I am on the trail of your last commentary, you may proceed. There is always one skepticism towards the state when it interferes with our lives as well as the academic community. At one point, we may find it better to have a more conservative or liberal power depending on our worldview, views and beliefs, but ultimately it is one danger that threatens us because with every new arrival and change of government comes another group into that position, takes all the rights that were acquired from the previous group and imposes its new terms and conditions, so here you can freely continue in this sequel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119070	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119071	I have pointed out earlier that the university is not ideal, far from it as well as its employees. However, in the present state of affairs it has the potential to be a criticism of the current government because it is independent of it. So, it will always be able to be a political correction because it is one of the few truly privileged positions in society that should be reserved for the best, which enables independent and independent critical action, thinking and scientific creation, which ultimately benefits the entire community, primarily in the sense that scientists are free to do so in order to devote themselves to fundamental research. And applied research is extremely valuable, but fundamental research creates a society, applied to enable it to survive. By reforming that autonomy, we no longer have anyone who can control the same government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119072	Thank you. Comrade Nino Rasudić, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119073	In reading this proposal of the law, I personally stuck to the assessment of the situation that seemed somewhat strange and exaggerated to me, studying later whether anyone was doing a systematic analysis I encountered at Stancer's analysis which was familiar to you simply showing that the elementary methodological errors were made in comparison with the countries and with several countries that were carefully selected, and not with the whole... let's say the EU on a completely different methodology. A particularly problematic story about the number of cited works where even in the assessment of the situation, Croatia is slightly better than the EU average by the number of quoted works. Not better than over the past few years is the first one behind Luxembourg in the EU, and then as a major problem, it is said that the share of unquoted works is large. It seems like a basketball game to me that we have a team that hits a lot of baskets, but there's a lot of missed shots, and in the end it's an important final score.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119074	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119075	If you are using the wrong methodology or not consistent methodology as a basis that creates results based on which you change the system of science and higher education, then you obviously have a problem. You can't answer that after you have been warned of errors in the methodology, so using unequal criteria in individual European and domestic universities and you de facto acknowledge that this is the case, they say, so we didn't create these documents or statistics, but rather certain European statistics. Okay, European statistics are based on data provided to individual institutions, but you know better now, so feel free to apply this new one and do a new survey and review the state of Croatian science and then align it with your own reform. And you can't wash your hands just by what you're about to say, and you know and you've been warned in public consultation that your methodology isn't right. That you wouldn't change it because you didn't even create it. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119076	Thank you. A colleague of the Voice Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119077	My colleague Rasudiæ, you mentioned that this law provides that all the essential and procedural elements of the multi-annual financing process are to be laid down by the basis of this proposal for a regulation. Why do you think the government went that way because, as far as I can see, even those who stand firm about this and this law and approach are actually putting one fence right out of this part which is not clear enough defined elemental components which should now be visible which will not be prescribed by law, not by a rule that should also go into some kind of public consultation but by a regulation that is always somehow the worst model of editing certain parts because it is brought away from the public's eyes by a very short quick procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119078	Thank you. Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119079	Of course, it's about the minister's discretionary powers because having control over money in science means having all the levers of power in your hands. The same reason is probably in the background of what happened with the Croatian Foundation for Science, and in the background perhaps the immaterial heritage of Croatia in the background of NCVVO control, which in its possession has actually capital results and conditions of Croatian intelligence in general, given all the results that are being kept there. And in all these cases, the only thing that is continuity is that the minister has all the power in his hands. In such a context, it is very difficult to talk about autonomy and it will be on a political assessment, not to say similarity, who will get how much money. Hence the Regulation, hence and the Regulation as a lower degree in relation to the law when I speak [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] on artistic areas and scientific areas. [[Upadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119080	Thank you, colleague. Minister Radova Fuchs will now address us on behalf of the motionary. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119081	You've just mixed pears and apples here in your presentation, but you've made a steak, and that shows that you don't know the system of scientific research at all, and you don't know the problem that's happening in the whole system of science and education at the moment. To mention basic research, applied research, to link that problem to this Law at all, is really telling you something quite tenth. Basic or fundamental scientific research, if you did not know, is the part that results in certain segments of concepts and results in research as such, and applied then apply some knowledge and convert them into something that is added value. Laugh yourself, but really speak in principle because none of this Law prohibits or defines which research will be done, nor the university nor the institute, but only prescribes that the NPOO money, it does not even stand in this Act, will apply to the very part, when you are already talking about national centres of excellence, to the part that will deal with applied research and technological development. This is defined in the NPOO agreement towards the EU. The other segment, 180 million that also go through the Science Foundation, goes to that research that we call fundamental. So, you're really mean, you want to keep this system completely on principle, as it has been so far, hiring by some Cosa nostra variants of godmothers and relatives, unsustainable, concentrating power and speculation within higher education institutions so that no one has any influence on quality checks, that the excellent and the best can't.../incomprehensible/... be employees than those who have better connections and are better probative at levels because someone at some point protects them somewhere. Such a management system should be told a lot, it should be released best, indeed those who deserve to become both assistants and PhDs and later teachers and lecturers. No one intends to put any autonomy under control, no minister, and especially I do not intend to manage universities. However, okay, what we've proposed to you as some kind of control mechanism is, it's not our original invention, it's an Austrian model where 3 of these members, let's say there are 7 of them elected by the university, it's named university, 3 government, government through this Ministry and president are elected jointly on the basis of a public tender. Okay, we'll talk, we'll think about it, if we need to simplify the story further so that it doesn't affect the government's structures again, as you'd like to say, even though I don't see any dispute here that eventually this president is elected through another structure. We can accept that, but let the universities stay at the level of governance, as is the case so far, where one particular team can manipulate in a way that even their own acts do not acknowledge, it should be put to the end. It can't be maintained that way. It is impossible for someone to break into the state budget unauthorized and yet, after that, to be surprised and interpret the regulation, the legal rules on the implementation of the state budget in their own way because it is his autonomous right. Well, it's not an anarchy autonomy. Autonomy is a responsibility. And that's why I think you can talk as much as you want more of these squadrons, and I don't think you're going to achieve the effect that you think you want to achieve and protect that structure that has so far ruled in a very, very, very high school system, so I'd dare say, uh, one of the biggest Croatian universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119082	Thank you, but you also have a few replicas. First is colleague Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119083	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor. I have already noted here that I believe that the influence of the state is too great in the everyday life of Croatian citizens. During this debate it is obvious that the Croatian government is also trying within the academic community, within higher education to place its hand and influence on higher education. The Croatian state has a financial control obligation, what you yourself have asserted, if some regulations are not followed, it must be resolved, but not in a way that is resolved by a decree by the authorities, but through democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia, even legally if necessary. What I have given to read from today's debate is that it is going towards, that the Croatian state once again wants to do, to put its influence on one part and segment of society that has not had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119084	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119085	No, I don't. He just wants to set up a control mechanism, this law wants to set up a control mechanism over clearly defined spending, which will actually be defined only by the university, so over the control of the spending of money coming from the state budget. Nothing else, no other control. In fact, own revenues are defined as their own income. What the Ministry of Finance is asking is to prescribe a framework, a framework for the regulation by which that own income should be shared. Nothing more. No one intends to take their own income. The universities, the constituents or the like, but they are required to have the basic principle of distribution and to bring it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119086	Thank you. The next is the replica of her colleague, Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119087	You're the only one here who insulted me is ad-hominem. I wouldn't really go into themes like different mob clicks, Panama hats or paper or anything like that, but I'd focus on content. First of all, I will remind you that you are ruling a system of education in the Republic of Croatia, and not someone else, as you wanted to point out here, secondly I would like to remind you, since you have used all five minutes to insult me, that the non-response to my argument shows only the weakness of your own arguments in defense of the law that you are not proposing because of this current team that is on the way out and which obviously bothers you, rather than proposing it 10 years before they were at the head of any university at all. And as for the fact that they should best be in the system of science and education that, I agree with you, the only difference is that you think that they should best come from the HDZ ranks and that's why you advocate political control, and how good they are we see after recent arrests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119088	Time's up. Now the minister will respond to your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119089	Well, in order to answer a reasoned debate, there'd have to be arguments. Since I don't see any argument here I can't even answer. I mean to mention HDZ and HDZ's best personnel inside are declassified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119090	Thank you. Next, and we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119091	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. You see the arguments, I refer to concrete articles of the law. When you put political control, if you are in politics at the head of HDZ, then you are also talking about HDZ, and at the very end of the line in the introduction of your presentation, you have only acknowledged my arguments and methods of financing applied, i.e. fundamental research, which I have pointed out in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119092	Thank you. I couldn't find my co-worker in the Minister's statement any offense. I would certainly have protected you, so this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I wouldn't have said a warning about what you thought was an insult. My colleague Marko Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119093	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here's the minister we see that maybe part of the opposition doesn't want any reform. Program contracts I remember a workshop in Dubrovnik debated for over a decade. It is standard practice in the EU where a financier does not enter autonomy give long-term financing, three-year contracts and negotiates and negotiates with the university out. We're giving you as many billions as you're going to be teaching science, engineers, certain areas, etc. No talk about political control, no talk about the HDZ takeover of the system, you are not the Pharaoh who can sign off on the autonomy of the university. This is a standard model that has other countries where, why it's not in the law, but in sublaws, you're not going to put formulas and basics into law. It will be delegated under the law, but the idea is to arrange it by way of an output.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119094	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119095	That's right. The regulation also adopts what is now called a program contract. This Regulation shall be adopted every year. I will remind you that the University of Zagreb and another three, four did not sign that programme contract that universities function and without these programme contracts is that some have lost a significant amount of money because they did not receive 100% funding. I think Zagreb lost 17 million a year. Some others, of course, got the full amount, that's how it is now. No one intends to reduce that component of the basic programme contract by means of programming contracts, but we are talking about negotiating that additional component which is an upgrade to the overall story which provides universities with larger funding from the state budget and the control of what is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119096	Thank you. A colleague of Bedekovic also has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119097	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can't take away the impression all the time that we have here that through a debate on this side of the assembly is actually a hypocritical one I'd say, hypocritical concern for university autonomy. And under the cover of that really such hypocritical concern for autonomy, I would actually say that there is no commitment to reform, but the opposite. There's an adjustment to the current that's actually to keep the status quo. There's a tendency to hide anything behind university autonomy. Autonomy is not anarchy, autonomy is a responsibility for managing financial and any other resources, responsibility to Croatian society and the rest of the academic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119098	Thank you. And responsibility to time. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119099	Thank you very much. Yes, of course you said autonomy, autonomy must exist and autonomy is guaranteed by the Constitution but there must also be responsibility. The system should also be changed and the people who manage our higher school institutions must be responsible for that part of the funds but also those given to them to the Croatian public definitely. And it's the only intensity of passing this law that needs to be changed in a better way and I'm sure it will change it better. And if anyone's afraid HDZ will rule forever, I agree. But I think we live in a parliamentary democracy where the elections are the ones that actually determine the ruling parties and structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119100	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I think the replicas are exhausted. You can go to your place. The individual debate will now be held by counterpart Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119101	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, few colleagues and colleagues. I see there's nine of us here in the assembly room. This is about a percentage compared to the total number of parliamentary representatives as many members of the scientific community in society 0.6% I saw some data which is very significant. He says whether HDZ will rule forever, I don't know, I don't know. But I have no doubt that if Plenkovic's government doesn't fall by then and we see from the lightning evening escape of the finance minister that anything is possible in the autumn this law will be passed. Even if the debate was not put into this term, indeed without precedent after Friday afternoon's vote, the longest possible term from the eyes of the interested public, and the record of the discussion on the board is not censored, so it leaves the impression of consent. All agree with strangely restrained natives and green-left outcomes would be the same. Most hands will be secured in the fall unless there's an early election, and then that's a different story. An analysis of the situation as I pointed out was already offered earlier by the Ministry of Science and an explanation of the situation in the draft law was made badly and can act manipulatively, citing the wrong trail. She's got the impression that she's going to leave that picture, leave that impression that we've got some angry wound, so she needs angry grass for this proposed reform. But if the matter is better looked at and analyzed, neither is that wound, i.e. problems of the system so large nor will the proposed medicine necessarily affect its healing, but it wants to do other things. The first thing this bill adopts is to reduce university autonomy and concentrate power in the hands of the ministry. In the short term, it doesn't have to be bad-depending on the minister, it must be bad in the long run. The minister, therefore, is given the great power to determine, manage and oversee the entire scientific, artistic and higher education system under this proposal, the minister may decide which scientific, interdisciplinary fields of fields and branches are at all scientific and scientific. 81, which sciences will have parent committees and commissions and what they will be, Art. In 90 and 91, which are study programmes and job plans are acceptable, see Art. 97, 102 and 15, respectively, will be criteria for the financing of institutions, for the availability of income, what content of programming contracts should be on the basis of which institutions should act, then what will be the structure and functioning of the electronic structure of art. In 95, this refers to those other things that the minister is experiencing through political influence in the bodies created by this bill. I repeat, such power in the hands of the minister doesn't necessarily have to be bad if it's great. It's agreed to say one scientific rifle, but who knows whose hands that rifle will be in in a year, two or five, or maybe this winter? Perhaps just when Minister Fuchs closes it some other minister will enjoy the fruits of such a framework and such opportunities? A similar tendency, for example, was seen yesterday in the case of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of cultural programmes, and this proposal changes things in a way that centralises decision-making and puts the minister's hands. Terrible, but perhaps beautiful if we get one of our Marlowes soon to do great things for Croatian culture. I say in the short term, that concentration of power can be excellent if we have a top person with a vision, but in the long run it's certainly bad, even if that person is a 20-year minister of culture or science, every one breaks down. As things stand now, it seems that only God's transparency can save us, and in a fun way, Machiavelli speaks of her in the 12th book of the rulers when she writes about the Borgia family of Pope Alexander VI Borgi who has made great conquests and taken hold of not the papal state, i.e. for the church rather than for his son Caesar Borgia, however, it happened that Caesare glazing came Pope Julius II and found a strengthened and enriched church so he could use it for good things. Here I hope that at least transparency will lead us to this framework and the concentration of power that comes from who knows what intentions at the end will if anything ends up in good hands. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119102	Thank you. Here is colleague Marija Selak Rasudić...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119103	Dear counterpart Rasudiæ wants to create the wrong impression that we, who are critical of the law, are causing university autonomy that we did not invent but insists on Europe and obliges us if we want to get the money out of it, Europe which is extremely critical of the political control over the university, which is the Orban's model that can now be applied in Croatia, is that we are those who want to maintain the status quo and do not want to reform, change and improve education. Of course that's completely wrong, but these trends that we call out here are the ones that are really progressive. So I'm going to say here, and I'm asking you what you think about this law being great, it just needs to be systematically corrected and the power to decentralisation. There is no need for the minister to be burdened with all the force he imposes on himself by this law, to leave them to the National Council for Science and other bodies that are professional because the profession is the one that has been cast out from this law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119105	I think that we should approach this discussion both by ruling both the opposition and this part of the opposition which obviously supports or is not reluctant to such a law that we should first respect each other as well-intentioned actors. Assuming that in 20, 30 years, we all have the goal of making this framework legally possible, but that doesn't mean that I now have the fact that I don't know that we have a system and the pain of a hand, and that I recommend that I agree that it's a good remedy for prison. Well, I guess you should be looking for some kind of armcap or something. And in order to even get to what to do and how to improve things, and it can always be better, we have to do a realistic and honest and methodologically correct analysis of what is definitely missing in this case. And I do appeal for a second reading in the fall whoever was in power to first make a quality analysis. states so that problems can be solved. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119106	Thank you, thank you, colleague Rasdic. Comrade Damir Bakić, an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119107	Thank you. Good afternoon again. Here I am actually going to relate to my colleague Rasdic, and once again here at the pay phone, I'm going to try really hard as a well-intentioned actor, looking at all of you as well-intentioned actors. I'm going to start by asking, is the choice in a more job when the person meets the minimum criteria, is the choice automatically then, in other words, is the higher coefficient then secured? Art. The 43rd could also be read, it would de facto imply only one option of re-election, and in the shortest time, we would have a new inflational wave of improvement and an even more perverse pyramid and the fact that the highest titles, not monetaryally, but contentally. On the other hand, the law no longer allows any category of teachers and scientists to extend the labour contract after the age of retirement to the burden of founders. It's a significant step back from what we have today. It is necessary to allow that possibility by law, at least for some categories of teachers and scientists. It also does not provide for the possibility of progress before the deadline of 5 years, it is not good. Related to the question, can those already employed at the facility come to the competition to fill their jobs? Otherwise, when re-election is mentioned in Art. 42., and the condition is written incorrectly and should probably be relaxed, i.e. do not require a condition which in two steps leads to the acquisition of conditions for improvement, especially if it is automatic. Now let's just take this one step at a time. Art. 12. Should the Senate conduct all the elections, even the headlines, I don't think so. Next, again. 12, just now something that doesn't say there. Namely, the university can establish as an entity without the right of personality of the institute, the centre, the institution, the clinic, etc., I think that should also enter the jurisdiction of the Senate. Art. 10th says the university is engaged in higher education, scientific or artistic activities and professional activities in at least two scientific areas, and in at least three fields. It's too small and leads to inflation. Art. Article 12 In 54, they say that emeritus is elected by the Senate, but also by the college or the academy, this needs to be harmonised. Art. 15, it is unacceptable that the Rector has any role to play in the work of the university council. Art. The 37th century of the 5th, which speaks of co-operational places, is an unacceptable formulation that says, which speaks of a continuation that does not require scientific access. Art. 38th, it's not good to talk about the hierarchy of jobs, it's good to talk about degrees. Art. 46. talks about the free academic year, it is missed to say how often and how many times you can get a free academic year. In addition, it is necessary to provide for a shorter or longer period of time for scientific or artistic or professional training. Art. 56. Who interprets what a violation of the reputation of an institution is? This is very dangerous because it says it can end with a job contract being cancelled. Again, this brings us back to the ethical codes and the need for ethical committees at university and national levels. Art. 71. why the trust of part of the teaching of practitioners in practice has been abolished if the institution is employed, the person employed in the scientific workplace. Art. In 76, I said something about it in a replica. A student in regular status may, however, be in a working relationship or carry out an independent activity, but then he does not have the right to subsidise tuition or student standard rights. This is unfair, namely, many study programs do not allow an extraordinary study regime and it is totally unfair that those who regularly study and still refrain from their own work, that only those persons do not have the right to subsidise scholarships. Art. 77. It is unclear in all these woods to interpret the Bologna rules of study completely unclear, which means repeating the study year. That is why St. 5 simply needs to be left out because everything is elegant and completely solved in 6th century. Art. The 79th student has the right to change his studies once, and it is necessary to say how long he has the right to subsidise scholarships in that new study. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119108	Thank you, here's more... Stay, you have a few more replicas, first is colleague Nino Rasdic, here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119109	Dear counterpart Bakic, I stayed a little confused to see what happened on the board yesterday and how it voted on the board and I don't understand the position of the green-left coalition on all of this. I would like to know today what the position of the Green-Left Coalition towards the 2012 Academia Solidarity Union Declaration, one of which was also Daniela Dolenec. This declaration is very critical of forsaking the concept of excellence, which you often mention, and Chapter 3 of that declaration is addressed to higher education and science for society, not for the market. Is it in the last 10 years? There's been some change in attitude from the same actors, some evolution of attitude, or you're on the same thing, and it's not well-communicated, here's what I'd like you to explain to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119110	Thank you, you weren't on the board yesterday if I wasn't wrong, I'm not quite sure, but it's actually everything I said on the board, so I said a little more today and I said it by consulting with many, speaking on many sides, not yesterday, not today, not in the past week, but in the long series of years I've been dealing with these issues and I've been saying it from my own and our beliefs. What you're talking about putting it against some concept of excellence is not necessarily a contradiction, the other thing is whether you insist on something, but I think it's one thing to take care of the system as a whole and take care of high education as a public good, and the other thing is also to insist that we follow the most possible standards in science and higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119111	Thank you. The next is counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119112	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, you have, Grandma, I'm sorry, you have, I'm sorry, it's just... You have a lot of experience in higher education, so I'm taking your remarks very seriously. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I actually have two comments. It's part of my job to reach your point of view. In fact, I think you've seen well that the criteria for the establishment of a university are too low and this could lead to the flood of the university that we already have. So we're not focusing on quality, we're focusing on quantity, obviously, and I'm afraid if we adopt this law in this form, we're going to contribute just to further inflation of the university. And the other thing that I think is crucial to us is the Ethics Code. An ethical code which may also have legal weight in the sense that the law prescribes the necessity of its adoption. In this way no one could eskicipate it, let's say, so folkly that obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119113	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119114	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic, and thank you very much for your attention. Yeah, I couldn't agree more on this. Here I am, and now perhaps two, three minutes ago, apostrophe of exactly that provision, which says that for the establishment of a university, enough is done in at least two scientific areas and at least three fields. It's absolutely too small and it leads inevitably to the inflation of the university. I don't think that makes much sense. Besides, we're talking about the university. And as far as the Ethics Code and the Ethical Bodies are concerned, I've made that clear enough, and we absolutely agree on that. So I'm really firmly convinced that it's necessary to have an ethical body when we speak, for example, about the university and at university level. Of course at the level of the components, it is not questionable but also at the level of the university and the National Ethical Body precisely because as I was and said, sometimes the inethical behavior and suspicion of the ethics of behavior happens both to the rectors and to the leading persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119115	Thank you. Time's up. You still have a colleague, Marijana Puljak, too, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119116	Dear colleague, I don't know if I missed you referencing to article 14 on the rector's election. So when the minister said that he left that choice to the universities, it seemed to me that he forgot that it was defined here in this law and that it was spoken of, it actually remains the same condition that the rector chooses from the Senate. [[Intruding Granny: Yes.]] Right? Can you point out once again which model are you proposing or representing? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119117	Thank you very much. So, I was saying it in that club display, but same as you and I, I noticed the minister's line just like everyone else, and I think it's actually different in the draft of the law right now. I have advocated and we advocate that this law in its final version enables flexibility to universities and to define membership in the Senate, as well as in selecting a model of rector's choice. I absolutely stand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119118	Thank you. A colleague of Sabina Voter's individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I'm going to go a little bit in detail. It is not clear why Article 10 explicitly states what university departments are doing, and this does not seem to be for universities, academia, centres and other forms of institution units of the university. Article 11(2) does not make it clear the role, composition and part-round of the University's Economic Council. In Article 12, we believe that the provision, that the Senate conducts all calls, could lead to unnecessarily burying the Senate with administrative affairs. In Article 15(2) but also Article 25(2) when we talk about the criteria for membership in the University Council and the Administrative Councils, we consider the criteria to be quite thin. The same applies to membership in the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. And we see that you've been linguistically playing this game to make a lot of changes, so now, it's not ZDVO law anymore than the ZDZD I think it will be, we need to get used to the new abbreviations. Okay. And after the PhDs become senior assistants, pre-graduate studies become pre-graduate studies. Diplomatic university studies become university graduate studies. Well, you've made it clear that a lot of things change in the law, at least in this language. But it is not clear why in article 38 you continued to insist on the position of senior assistant when it is called post doc everywhere in the world. Let's say. It is not clear why the assistants at the university and at the institute again, given the burden of teaching where they are extremely burdened at the university... And at the institutes, it's not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do they have the same deadlines? It is also very questionable that the parent committees in Article 90(1) of the fourth indent suggest to the national council a list of domestic scientific journals that are equated with the prominent international scientific journals for a particular scientific field and fields relevant for the selection of the scientific, scientific and teaching workplace at the university, the university, the art academy and the scientific institute, and the relevant artistic activity relevant to the electoral artistic teaching post, I conclude the quote. Because there are already very clear criteria by which some magazines are considered to be quality in international contexts. Furthermore, in Article 111, you state that the deadlines for selecting or re-election of teachers, or scientists prescribed by this law, are beginning to be counted on the day of the previous election or re-election at the workplace. In practice, this could mean that a person's deadline for reelection could be a month or two after the entry into force of the new law and that a new law would apply to it, and we don't really know what the criteria that the National Council will adopt. Perhaps you should see that no one is denied in view of the deadlines in which they expire or that the possibility in the first election or re-election is given after the entry into force of the new Law so that they can choose an old or new procedure. I don't know, depending on which one's more favourable, but it wouldn't be good if anyone were to be denied if it wasn't clearly defined in some transitional and final terms. It is not clear why the mandate of the rector is the 3rd year, the term of office of the dean. and why it is worth it for the rector and the dean that they can be elected as many times as possible, and let's say for scientific institutes, we don't have a limit on mandates or it's not clearly defined by law enough. We don't understand why in art. 38. there is a limit that the scientific council can have as many as 40 members as possible because there is nowhere to be prescribed how many, for example, the Senate of the university can have as many members as possible. If the power of the Scientific Council would be good if one of the powers remained to adopt the scientific policy of the Institute, I have already said so on the board and here, that is, the key document is a scientific policy and it is not good that scientists do not participate in it, if you put it under the authority of the Governing Council anywhere it is said that in the composition of the Governing Council it must be those people who are engaged in this institute, engaged in science and have the clearest, clearest picture. And I don't have time anymore, and I'm going to say this in the end a little bit about the relations of strength and the role of the state and the cooperation of the state and the university, and what I think that should look like, why maybe we didn't hit the srid in that part of the distribution of power, power and responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119120	Thank you. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković's individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119121	Thank you, dear Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and few others left. I will use my individual debate to verbalise all those remarks relating to the status of language teachers of the profession at higher education institutions. Namely, and I admit that I may be here, I'm not objective and I'm an Anglist myself, but I know what problems they're facing, and since they're also sent by a language teacher association at high school institutions, she's sent some amendments, I'd like to verbalize them, and that's what I decided to do in this individual debate. So the suggestions are as follows, so that they remain recorded and that they could eventually be repaired until the second reading in Art. 4. 2. should be changed to read, scientific teaching, meaning it is a supplement, and artistic activity is based on the freedom and autonomy of scientific and artistic creativity and open science and under the 3 ethics of teachers, it is an addition, and artists, so that is, these are two changes and below the point. 10th century 4th century social responsibility and scientists of teachers and artists. Namely, art. 2. refers to the basic principles of higher education of scientific and artistic activities. Higher education is primarily manifested through teaching activities, and high-school teachers except scientists and artists are certainly teachers, in this case language teachers, but also in general, so it is necessary to add the words "teacher" in this item. Article 1 also applies. The 12th should be changed to read, the University Senate does, so everything remains the same except for the wheel. 3., representatives of staff in scientific, teaching, this is a supplement, co-operation and other jobs. Employees at teaching posts are members of the Senate and according to the applicable law. In addition, if employees in co-operation and other jobs, and students are also elected to the Senate, it is not possible for a senior group not to be represented in the Senate, in this case they are teachers. Article 1 In 37. should be changed to read, teachers at the university are employed on scientific teaching and teaching jobs, and under 2 in teaching posts teachers are hired at the university if there is a legitimate need, if they are colleagues who are thoroughly represented in another scientific field, field or branch, e.g. A college from foreign language profession teachers can be employed at teacher's teaching posts. For the sole purpose of university language and literature studies, teachers can be employed at the teaching venues of lecturers. For the purposes of university art studies, teachers can be employed at the teaching posts of art associates and co-repetitors. Teachers at the university can also be employed in teaching jobs when a professional study is performed at that university, I don't think that explanation is necessary. Article 3 38. should be changed in such a way that teaching posts are grouped into four groups, teaching posts by groups of the lowest according to the university are higher, means lecturer, senior lecturer, lecturer and lecturer in the permanent choice at the university, lecturer and senior lecturer of professional studies and professor of professional studies in the permanent selection, etc., etc. Article 3 41. should be amended to read, by selecting teachers or scientists at the workplace of a regular professor in a permanent selection and scientific advisor in a permanent choice, lecturer in a permanent choice and professor of professional study in a permanent choice, the process of progress or re-election has been completed. Article 1(1) 46. should be amended to approve, by means of a decision, a regular professor, or a regular professor in a permanent choice, and a lecturer to a counselor or lecturer in a permanent selection paid for a free academic year for scientific or artistic work. I think that changing these articles would do minimally what is necessary to equalise colleagues who teach, or who are teachers of the language of the profession at higher universities, equalise them with other employees and enable them to progress and improve in accordance with, as their non-language colleagues can, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119122	Thank you. Now, individual debate has a colleague, Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119123	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. Here, I'm going to use this individual debate to look at exactly the greatest potential we have in the system of science and higher education, which is people. They're our scientists, they're our teachers who work hard, and I think they need an even better incentive to be better at it. We are currently at a moment of increased investment in the system of science and higher education. I also congratulated the Minister on the National Recovery and Resistance Programme when we talk in Brussels with the EC exactly the part regarding the verticality of education, consider the best part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. They are currently ending, we have 25 billion euros at our disposal from all sources, European sources are currently completing negotiations on funds, and there will be a thematic concentration in cohesion 30% for research and development. Investment in research and development 2020 has increased. 1.27%, I remember when it was 0.66% 10 years ago when I was president of the Association of Young Scientists and we had the same reform of this Law. So the whole system is based on people who need to present and educate students and scientific works and projects and patent and cooperation with the economy. It hurt me as a regional minister that I had 25m euros in the co-financing fund of Horizon projects for those Croatian projects that are carriers, that no minister knows if we have any now which are Croatian project holders, the funds I.../incomprehensible/... left for other projects. It hurt my soul if we didn't have a project like that. The presidency I wanted to finish with the Cambridge di project we should have taken 50 young scientists to Cambridge to learn transfer technology and to learn, too, the commercialisation of their own results. Unfortunately for Covida HAMAG-Bicro he couldn't conduct the procurement, but that was the same time. As part of strengthening the capacity of people, I would like to make three proposals to the minister for consideration. The first is that I asked the minister in the replica, to ensure 30% of the salary allowance for those implementing European projects. It's a standard in other countries and public services, I believe you can find ways and I think you need to find funds. The second is to put and secure a system of incentives that will then be developed by means of a sublegal act and to find funds with the Croatian Foundation for Science for Education in the generic skills of scientists. When I was, and the master's degree I worked at the university or at the Southampton Institute, my mentor had 6 million pounds of project, many papers in Nature, Al Gore quoted his works in his documentary and then I realized that they have a system where you can't advance without having certain components. And when I asked them why, they said so, so who will, so to whom will give six million pounds and so many people that he has no competence. I don't think we're ready to tie people up and put them together yet, but I think we're ready for those who want to, to find a few million kunas a year at the Science Foundation, and that those institutions that want to work on strengthening their people can do that and that they can apply for such projects and theirs, especially young scientists who are more pro-pulsive, that they can get and get young people who can compete, whether they're Horizon or JRC, I think there are 2 or 3 in Croatia, I know that, let's say Mrs. ... One of them on the Ruger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third component also, that in the projects that the Science Foundation has and which it receives, a part, a small part, a few percent can be separated for such educations to project leaders. In all, I think that this Law is a good step, I follow, in 2003 I was as president of the November choir, in 2011 as a young scientist, today as a parliamentary representative and I think that through these two readings we will actually achieve a quality reform that will strengthen the system of science and higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119124	Thank you. A colleague of Bedekovic will replicate what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119125	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I agree, here, with everything that you have talked about in your individual debate, especially with part of the debate that you have devoted to the status and care for young scientists, scientists, especially for young assistants and what I need to stress once more, and I believe that you will agree with me, this law goes in this direction to regulate and improve the status of assistants, especially to speed up the possibility of their progress where we now have no more of that new law that the assistant has to wait 6 years at least to advance, and the practice has shown longer, so to advance from the status of assistant to the doctor. In fact, practice has shown that this situation, meaning progress from, when an assistant doctorates, progressing to the status of a doctor has been known to last several A year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think this law is going in the direction. correcting this injustice. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119126	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119127	Thank you very much. Well, I'd agree with you colleagues, here, in 2011, when I was president of the Young Scientists' Association, we had four thousand then scientific recruits, assistants, and about a thousand jobs available in the system. And basically the ones where we invested millions of dollars in their Ph.D. We gave them up. Part of it went out, didn't get a job in the economy. So their progress and pro-pulsibility, this is, I think, what I'm going to do in the final speech on behalf of the club, is one of the key reform parts with the programming contracts and the strengthening of the autonomy of this Law, and I'm about to allow young scientists to progress faster, to be more pro-pulsant, and all these resources available will allow them to explore and integrate quality into all scientific processes within the Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119128	A colleague of Buric's also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119129	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Pavic, I will repeat once again that I believe that the biggest benefit of this reform law is the introduction of order into spending public money and I welcome it. Therefore, money should certainly be spent responsibly and transparently because it is in fact this law also prescribes and adopts. We are talking about funding based on programming contracts relating to three components, basic, developmental and variable. However, listening to other colleagues especially teachers from the Rasdic family, I got the impression that the introduction of order into finance actually means reducing autonomy for them, but what I must stress is that university autonomy implies responsible behavior, not anarchy, so please to comment on it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119131	Thank you very much, so we also saw today in the debate that one part of the people is to retain the status quo that is against reform, against reforms where we have very little separation for research and development, where what counterpart Hajdukovic was saying is that we have a imbalance between deficit and surplus professions, that we have a lack of labour on the market, but this law will strengthen university autonomy. Program contracts are strengthening and there is no talking about any political control over HDZ's takeover. Why? Because long-term funding is being negotiated and outputs are being negotiated. It is a standard in the EU, and a financier must know what money is spent on and must know about so many desert billions what universities and the scientific community delivers to this society and how useful it is for our citizens, we have given somewhere better or worse. That's why there are three years of funding and outputs that they will deliver.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119132	Thank you. Here, now the individual debate will be held by colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119133	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, a lot of issues are open today and that's good. Since we talked about different aspects, the different areas covered by this law, some of the topics were already discussed by colleagues and colleagues, so I decided to give up part of my individual debate and talk about something that we haven't talked about before, and I think it's quite important how much time I have allowed. So what I think is well done in this law is that part of the law relating to the system of professional studies, to universities and high schools and to the fact that this law allows more units of local and regional and regional self-government not to establish private higher schools. In fact, so far, the applicable law of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit has been able to establish high schools. They were mostly colleges and high schools. In the beginning, it was a very well-conceived story in line with the policy approach of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, but over time the story turned into something that was not good because when the establishment of such a type of higher education in smaller communities did not respect the network of higher schools and such high schools rarely came into financial crisis, in a crisis with funding, and some of them fell on the burden of the state. Of course, there are excellent examples of different universities, but unfortunately we have fewer great examples. I think it's a regulation that we'll succeed in the future, I'd say clean up, clean up a system that's very, very complex for us. Namely, universities and higher schools perform studies, professional studies depending on the number of study programmes. According to this law, we are left with universities, and high schools are wiped out or shut down and become high schools. Why? And that's, that's a good solution, because we have the only difference between high school and university in the number of study programs. In fact, higher schools perform up to 3 and higher schools more than 3 study programs. And I think it's good to change the status and therefore put high schools in the status of the university, of course, provided that in the time ahead, the Quality Insurance Act is put in focus which, I think, is already at the end of the public debate, which in many of its provisions I believe will regulate the quality management system in general at higher universities and universities and at the academy and therefore on all forms of higher universities that we have, as well as at higher schools. What I think is good, it is to correct an unfavourable position for students of professional studies where, according to this law, the new one that we are discussing is now given the name of a master under the terms of the profession by the completion of a graduate professional study. The name of the master, with the title of the profession, replaces the pardon with the name of professional specialist, which I think is important because the students of professional studies therefore deserve to have the title of master as well as the students of university studies, the difference is that professional students of professional studies receive the title of master with the title of master, and students who finish university studies of the master with the university master, with the indication of the profession. What is important to stress is that this Law gives the possibility of horizontal and vertical passing to students of professional studies, which is why we have struggled and fought for years and I believe that we are obliged and we must be able to give a young man who finishes or goes to a professional study, to enable, of course, under the conditions of the primary higher education that enrolls in the university study, to advance on the vertical completion of postgraduate studies, and we must therefore enable him to develop fully in accordance with the concept of lifelong education. I could do a lot more about this, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119134	Thank you very much. You will have opportunities, perhaps through replicas, of your first colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119135	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you were talking about colleges, high schools that were established frequently and without any clear criteria, they were falling into financial problems, the quality of teaching was questionable, etc., etc. And here I agree with you, there's nothing to add, really, there was no order, at least not the way it was supposed to be. But I want to ask you, especially as a paralegal I appreciate, do you think regulation that you can start a university with only two scientific areas, or 3 fields, will actually contribute to the quality? Are we going to have universities, and in the name of it is all school, which will really be able to deal with market requirements that will be able to perform quality teaching and which will be able to guarantee students that they will have quality teachers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119136	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119137	Thank you very much. This is a very important question and thank you for it. I'll only go back to colleges and to this system of professional studies, I have to find out right now, we've got great examples of universities in smaller environments, and we've got fewer great examples. So to not turn out now that there is everything, we have wonderful and great examples of quality study programs and quality studies at universities in smaller environments. The question of this possibility means to establish.../incomprehensible/... universities, excuse me, in a way that I can set up study programs, set up study programs in two fields. You know what? You know what really matters to me? The quality of the study programs is important. That is why I mentioned the Quality Insurance Act, initial accreditation and recreditation of study programmes that need to be consistent with the labour market and should be quality. It is less important how many and what are the rules, the most important quality, and the competitiveness of The market is achieved by quality. [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119138	Time's up for an answer. Now, my colleague Buric will replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119139	... My colleague Bedeković, I am pleased that you have stressed the importance of a politicntric approach to the development of a higher education system, which allows for the availability of education in all parts of the Republic of Croatia because not all students, or future students and their parents, have the same opportunities, and perhaps not the desire to have children studying right in Zagreb, so I think it is important that what you emphasized about a politic approach. [[Specially enabled.]] It is also good that this Law enables horizontal and vertical flow through the system and that is precisely for students of professional studies. I'm glad their title is actually this law, they become actually Masters with label specified [[Intruder: Masters.]] certain professions, and my question to you is yes [[Intruder: Structures, professions.]] You're commenting. [[Thank you. You don't have time to ask the question anymore, I'm afraid. Here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119140	My colleagues... /Intruder: Comment./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119141	Yeah. Oh, here, I'll do it. I did. [[Intruder: Here, you may have understood what a colleague, please.]] Well, I guess I did. But I'll comment, then. Why are they important, why is it important to develop professional studies in smaller environments? First of all, it strengthens and makes you available to study in smaller environments students who may be poor socioeconomic status, firstly, secondly, allow you to study in a professional study where you get competences directly needed, so narrowly specialising the profession needed for the labour market and secondly, which, third thing that has proved very important, that these smaller higher schools, in smaller environments, in our counties, so the university, even the former and present high schools, actually became generators of economic development in small areas. And that's that politic approach. development. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119142	Thank you. My colleague Pavić will immediately ask a question, replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119143	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, here you have mentioned the Quality Act, we remember the discussion of the doctoral studies we had on the board, which you are leading, and that we will also have a thematic session, but I would return to the university, especially I would not run from the labour market. Right now, before the Covid crisis, we were short 100,000 workers a year. We were about to issue a little under 100,000 work permits. Now it's happening again. The role of the university is crucial in ensuring labour force for the labour market and we do not have to run from it, as well as universities. Horizontal and vertical mobility is very important. When you enroll any study, you can get to the doctorate itself. So give us a little further clarification of the role of these universities, especially for education for labour market needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119144	Here you go. You've got all minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119145	Thank you very much. It's actually a follow-up and comment to a colleague. So once again I point out, what, in fact, what learning outcomes does a professional study give, so which competences? So he's training a person, a student, a future young man directly for the labour market. Professional studies, except for part of theoretical knowledge, give a lot of practice. More practice needs to be given. Just to enable man to enter, to enter a specific labour market related to certain areas. So what develops our small environments, our county centers, is exactly hiring in segments of the profession, so in different sectors that then carry the development of these small environments. Mobility horizontal, vertical absolutely, we must be able to enable a young man to develop fully There's no sign of him after a professional study. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Go to university and we have to let him do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119146	Thank you, thank you. My colleagues, Puljak, please choose a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119147	Here's a respected colleague, Bedekovic, I'm going to ask you not to ask again about this way of selecting a rector, but this part that we think is one of the shortcomings, it's the abolition of an independent national ethical body. So, that ethical committee that existed before, it's now down to the level of the university and the constituents. So as you see this solution in the light here are a number of affairs whether it's recently, here's plagiarism, etc. I personally believe that we need one such national body, this law abolishes that body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119148	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119149	Thank you, colleagues, for this matter. This is an important question. I mean, look, the practice has shown that an existing legal solution to the establishment of such an existing law, the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, has proved ineffective in relation to the purpose for which it was established. This is irrefutable, that is, this practice has shown and what is important for the prominent, opinions and decisions of the committee in practice were merely nominal values and had no legal power. And it is in practice something that has proved really ineffective, and about the ineffectiveness of the Ethics Committee in cases of ethical proceedings at some high schools in favour of the fact that we have had different decisions of the Constitutional Court. You remember all of this, and I just think it's necessary to make new legal solutions. progress in this area as well. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119150	Thank you. And there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it happened. Here you go, Mr. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119151	I'm sorry, I'm going to use a completely inappropriate breach of the Rules of Procedure on 238, and I don't have a chance to replicate it, so I'm going to use it like this. Here, in advance, I'm saying in advance I'm going to earn a note, but I just wanted to point out, so you're saying that according to the current law, that body didn't have its function. It couldn't even have had its function when it didn't exist for a few years. So, I remember, you remember I kept mentioning to the board when we were going to start, when the ministry was going to launch the competition. It was started and nothing, so that body didn't exist, so it couldn't even work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119152	Thank you, you've given yourself a warning, I'm joining your proposal, and now we're crossing, thank you, colleague, we're moving on to the final debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119153	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here after the whole debate, I would say that this law is a step forward, perhaps, but too small to, in order to take it seriously. In fact, there's a lot of problems in this system, and I think that here's my colleagues praised how brave, big reformist step, but he's all but that. Maybe in some micro, micro scales. But let's take the turn. If we're really going to look for a scoreboard in our system then I think it's best to take a look at the 2022 World University ranking report that our 4 largest universities ranked as follows. In 529 there is Zagreb, on 803 is Split, on 1549 Rijeka and on 1948 Osijek. With everyone falling for a number of places other than Osijek that's made some progress. Only comparisons for Belgrade University are 348 places, and Ljubljana at 416. If that's not enough indicator for us to do something wrong and we need to change a lot of things then I think this might be the best indicator or lacmus paper. We were talking about universities, so only the name says university, and here I share a fear with a part of my colleagues that these provisions in the law would actually lead to devaluation of the meaning of the university. Then we can literally have a university in every town, every village that I don't say, and then there's really no point in calling it a university. That big university actually loses to say its meaning because if you say it's something of a university, and it teaches only two scientific areas, or 3 fields per se, it's a small school, not a university. So I wouldn't play with those terms and I'd leave the possibility of a university or other high school names as proposed by the law, but the university still has to have a certain rank because then we simply devalued that, that term. I would also like to mention once again that I would like to see changes until the second reading as regards teachers of language professions working at higher schools. I would also like to see more synchronisation with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, I said that it is lower alive the way it should have ended at no level of education. I'd like it to be fixed, too. Just like some of the misunderstandings we have regarding academic names even though we have a special law that regulates it, but here's an example I'm going to give and again, university specialists is something that is endemic to Croatia. I haven't met it anywhere since, and I don't know how to translate that title, so it's not ma. Or a sword. It's not even phd, I don't know what equivalent you'd use on, at some international level if you went to study somewhere further or clean if you live abroad. More synchronisation with the labour market is absolutely as important as the higher transparency of funding and higher transparency which is financed precisely by public work because ad useam education of surplus staff public money makes no sense. So, I was talking about professors they're in scientific class, so if teaching obligations can be reduced scientifically by the time the labour market shows up, it shows the need for, for a number of students or graduates from their field. So I don't think university autonomy should be used to make public money what it wants, public money is public because it's supposed to finance some public interests, and in the end as I said and at the beginning I'm going to end up, so this is far from some huge colossal reformist, reformist effort, this may be it, but in some micro, micro, micro cosmos.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119154	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a colleague, Damir Bakic, will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119155	Finally, there is a great opportunity ahead of us, an opportunity to get a modern and progressive law, a law that will stimulate teaching efforts and improve scientific work, or at least create preconditions for that, a law that will make it even more clear to ensure university autonomy, but at the same time community control over the availability of social resources over the legality of conduct and the preservation of academic freedoms of all teachers, all students, all the constituents and universities as a whole, because higher education is a public good. We need a law that will encourage scientific and teaching efforts with the aim of making our universities and institutes internationalised and integrated into international scientific flows as much as possible. One of the imperatives is the attraction of foreign scientists and especially students. The ultimate test, and I'm going to say this, at the same time, the ultimate test and the key benefit is to attract foreign students. All examples of more advanced environments suggest that the leverage in university prosperity and progress and scientific and artistic research is precisely the attraction of foreign students. In order to achieve all of this, or better to say, to ensure that there is still a lot of work ahead of us, I am telling us in the spirit of this debate. In this period, there is still time to repair and supplement whatever is needed. I will re-separate the most important, first and foremost enable universities to be flexible in selecting the most appropriate model of Senate definition and rector selection. It is also necessary to regulate the system of progress and employment more carefully. It is particularly important in this latter to ensure appropriate conditions and to protect the rights of assistants because they are the most vulnerable group in the system. It is necessary to further specify the programming mechanism and to define to the greatest extent possible all key levers and steps in this process by law. It is necessary because in that part there is still a series of irregularities in this draft law, and there has also been talk about it today, carefully edit and harmonize all aspects or all funding streams, which in particular includes a clear distinction of specific and own incomes and their purpose and their place in programme bargaining. It is also necessary to further strengthen the rights of students, especially to an even greater extent, and I am particularly pointing out, to an even greater extent, as much as these material opportunities allow us to expand the scope of subsidies. Dear Ministers and Honorable Secretary of State, this is an invitation, this is an appeal, listen, consider everything said in this debate, listen in the time remaining, the voice of the entire academic community, listen to everything that is said in good faith and intent and make every effort to get a law that will move us forward. And in the end, it does not serve to honor the presidency of the assembly this term of debate, but it is enough to count us, I will not count again, some of my colleagues have already done so, and it is a message and it is a very bad one, I warmly agree with my colleague Selak Rasudiæ. I want to believe that the debate in the second reading will receive an appropriate term and treatment. It is the least we owe to the system of science and education, all scientists and university teachers, co-workers and students, and the general public, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119156	Thank you very much. Here is now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the vice-president of the assembly, Sabina Vosovac, will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of this debate, I hope that the ministry will show that our efforts and these discussions were not in vain, that you heard them or that you listened to them, but not only that you listened to them but that you heard them. I think that the relationship between MPs under this bill was quite, quite correct, aware of the circumstances in which science and higher education are present and not at all considering what would happen if we were on different sides, that we were in the role of the promoter, and you were in the role of opposition, I hope that even then there would be enough wisdom to recognize higher interests where there should be no too much wooding in certain things, but you should listen and hear all that is possible to implement. But I must say, in the end, I am sorry that this correct relationship, which the MPs today have shown to the motionor, or to the government, has not been innate and the relationship that the Proposer has shown towards HS in the bill itself, I must mention it. The Croatian Parliament is the most representative and legislative body. The laws, including this law as you have stated, are passed among other things and that in some ways our society, with the help of higher education and science, is being led forward in line with development strategies. And you yourself did this... and national plan and various strategies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't start a university without the Croatian Assembly. Right? Why can't we start a university without the Croatian Assembly? Because the university has a public role, it has a social interest, and this draft law will exclude the Croatian Parliament from any life and insight into the work of the university. We don't want control, nor did we ever want it. But through this law and the proposal for a law on quality assurance of the Croatian Parliament more in this life of co-existence and cooperation in social progress between state bodies, which is a ministry but also a representative body, which is a Croatian Parliament, we must not ignore the universities that have a public and social role will remain and disappear. From the new Quality Insurance Act, it means to completely delete the network of high, public higher schools and public scientific institutes. And here we heard today that we have too few students, too many universities, and that in some ways we have to see what and how and how. Those nets will be gone. In parallel, it will reduce some conditions for obtaining a permit when establishing new higher schools instead of seeking to ensure quality, to reduce these criteria and to work hard at the entrance, to watch what enters our system and what survives in the system, to guarantee quality at every level. The removal of the network by the Croatian Parliament and by reducing the criteria for acquittal or accreditation in the establishment of higher schools, I don't think we're going that way. I had to look back on that. Secondly, the university council as a key, the university supervisory body so far has been obliged to submit a report to this home council once a year and in some ways to give insight into what is happening in the institutions that are now this University Council no longer having this obligation. The council no longer has that insight. Secondly, the Assembly Committee was a key body when we elected members of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, because it was he who proposed a closed list from the candidates received on the basis of a public call to this Croatian Assembly. There won't be any more. That's the role of proposing a list, the closed lists are being taken over by the government. Not to say that the report on the work of the National Council no longer has to come before this Croatian Parliament. That's not a good way to go. Think about it. Is it wise what you're doing? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119158	Thank you. Thank you. And here's colleague Marko Pavić, finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119159	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's how I'd like to sum up the whole debate and, on behalf of the HDZ Club, give support to these changes. My entire career trip was tied to this law in 2003 as a student choir member I was involved in change. 2011, 2012 on behalf of the Association of Young Scientists. So, I follow this law continuously and there was an incredible amount of resistance to any change of system, any change. And then to say that this isn't a big step and that this isn't a significant improvement in the system when the last ten years have been doing some pretty cosmetic changes. I don't think it stands at all. And that's why I find it strange to have these criticisms about the term of the debate, and I believe that he wanted to get in before the summer break, since he needed a reform, I'm also working next week from Monday, and the term of the debate was from 1 to 4 p.m. which is standard working hours. So I don't see where there's a big panic, either. Which are reform parts of the law, first of all, I would like to highlight the programming contracts. Program contracts, I say we've been discussing them for a decade and more. I'm like a young scientist, here's Wesen and I were at a workshop in Dubrovnik not entirely. And they're not entirely. We were younger, they didn't fully live. Therefore, we need it in our entirety, and there is no talk of any party control, the minister's control, the minister is not a Pharaoh. Programme contracts are also respected to strengthen university autonomy in a way that deals with three-year financing and control and output arrangements. And it's also a responsibility in the public spending of money that we have from this assembly what society gets for that money. I remember, the past head of Shima Angelinovic said he was not comfortable coming to the National Council in front of the parliamentary board he was getting such questions. We here raise our hands to the billions of kuna we give to the system. What that system gives society back and whether you could do better. It's the first component. The second component is the promotion and that is, the integration of jobs and calling and greater transit through the system of young scientists. I think it's a key component that will give young scientists a wish to stay in the system, because also until you reach someone, at least an extraordinary pay teacher is not adequate to attract them best, and also the resources and projects and quality of science depend naturally on the group to the group. We also have top groups and scientists, but on average, you'll find it hard to attract the best. The best go to the best university. And the third component is strengthening university autonomy. There's no way this law reduces autonomy. It's getting stronger, because it's just giving more power. The university can be alone, we remember in the 2003 law there was mandatory integration, so then the Constitutional Court brought it down. Right? Now in this law the university itself decides if they are bigger, if they are smaller, whether or not they want to integrate and to what extent. Since 2003, therefore, when the integration obligation was in law, the internal structure has now been operating only by the university. If it is not to strengthen autonomy, what is then with these programming contracts, with what I have already highlighted the significant funds of 25 billion euros is at our disposal. A billion euros is from the National Resilience and Recovery Programme, it is necessary to strengthen the system's capacity to make use of everything and, overall, based on these facts and arguments, the HZZ's Club of Representatives will support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119160	Thank you very much. A colleague named Domagoj Hajdukovic found a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119161	That's right, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Namely, counterpart Pavić insinuates that this is a colossal reform that you imagine is not going into the process but on Friday at 3 p.m., it's being accepted by that, I guess, and we know that HDZ is skillfully using such pins and that this really is a colossal reform, then it would certainly go on Wednesday morning rather than Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119162	If I were to say that my colleague Pavic didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning about it. In the end, here's how we started Minister Radovan Fuchs will be back eventually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs as many of you as there are in this assembly that you have stayed because you are really interested in this law and because that part of the issue of education and science is clearly what you understand. I thank you for all your discussions, for the constructive proposals that were in the majority present and for those that were not so constructive. I think there were a lot of good suggestions. I must say that I like that it did not come into question exactly that part of that legislative proposal that should lead to a change in the system, which is a way of financing and controlling the spending of public money and the autonomy of the university. Some of the discussions they've been having, I won't mind, but I really appreciate the good suggestions. What we may have installed in some of these articles that I repeat is not of some great importance to the very idea of the law, we installed it because we thought it might contribute to some more flexible and faster flows. We reduced that part of some of the National Council's powers because they just didn't happen in that National Council. We have a comment from the National Council that was required to have a High School and Science Finance Council that hadn't met for five years and never made any provision. This National Council for what reasons it had in mind to bless the amendments and additions or new statutes but only the scientific institutes after being examined by the Ministry's legal service, then they would go to the National Council, so we did not get consent to the statutes for two years or so. So that's all the stuff that's suppressed the system. The National Council under the law does not have the power to adopt regulations. Therefore, when it is said that the National Council will adopt criteria, and then the minister will sign them with a regulation and sign them only for the harmonisation of the whole thing. The branches, the areas, the fields are a statistical category. No one can invent them on their own and add some new ones. They're just some of the elements. As for the rector's election, so I'm going to say right now that I agree that we fully deregulate it and give it to the university's authority, to strengthen further autonomy, I have nothing against it. There are several other good proposals. There are also some comments on certain articles that, with due respect, should perhaps be made clear to those who have set them up so that they would fully understand some of these articles and I am convinced that they will agree with such legal decisions. So, university autonomy, faster flow, more chances for young people, a better way of funding, a more stimulating way of funding, controlling public money spending, and a great chance for those who are good and best to do more than we have done in the higher education and science system so far. I'm sure by implementing a law like this, we'll make sure not one, two steps forward. Would you make ten? Probably would, but at this point a realistic assessment is that two will make a major shift in the system of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119164	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Just stay a minute. A colleague of the Voice has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119165	I've got one more replica left, too bad it's going to go to waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119167	When you said there were some references to non-founded articles, but you're convinced that the reason for this unfounded is because you didn't get the right idea if they were explained you'd actually see that it's okay. However, if your reasoning regarding the articles were to be true reasons, as did the Ombudsman in the consultation, and not only the reasoning, this article and that, but if this argument were to bear an explanation of what it really means to change in relation to the existing and what it will contribute to, then perhaps there would be fewer such misunderstandings. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119169	Thank you very much. I didn't take it as a misunderstanding, I take it as a well-intentioned comment. However, we will listen to the complete phonogram of this session. All these good constructive proposals will certainly be installed in order for the law in the second reading to be good and to clarify some further concerns, and with all due respect, if the MPs want us to do so, we will in some asked questions where it may not be fully explained and explanations that are not mandatory, but we are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-08-0.u119170	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we do this week's work. We continue on Monday at noon precisely by taking the stand of the club's representatives. Thank you and have a nice weekend. Right at noon on Monday. Session adjourned at 17:57 p.m.
