ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u82963	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u82964	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. In these five minutes, I will present to you the initiative of an independent group of hairdressers in Croatia, and they are asking for the introduction of a 13% lower VAT rate for the hairdressing industry, and in the next few minutes I will prove to you that this would result in more millions of benefits for the budget and, of course, higher employment in that branch. In fact, all the analyses prove long-term and multiple benefits to both the state and the entire hairdressing industry. The objectives of their initiatives are clear. Enabling the sustainability of the business of hair salons, hiring more hairdressers, increasing standards of hairdressing services, very significantly reduced unfair competition of work on black, allowing for fairer and easier development of the salon business, and, of course, entering more hair salons into the VAT system. Under current regulations, Croatian hairdressing salons with an annual turnover of up to 3 hundred thousand kuna are not in the VAT system, but as soon as they cross that threshold they enter the VAT system and start paying it at 25%. In this way, the owners of the salon immediately in the start for the result have an increase in end-user prices to their services and, of course, to mention the amount by 25%. We believe that this is the way to cultivate unfair competition and does not stimulate the fair development of entrepreneurs in the hairdressing industry. We know that EU Member States are allowed and able to make their own decisions on reducing the VAT rate if such a decision can have a favourable impact on the business of certain small and medium-sized enterprises operating at local levels. We'll give you that in the next few minutes and prove it. Hairdressing is one of the few professions that survived the changes that brought us the Internet. Hair salons, mostly small crafts, managed to survive and maintain business on the streets of all our cities, as well as in smaller places and villages. These are areas of local importance, as well as places of social integration. They also provide, of course, a broad possibility of employment. Unfortunately, the number of craftsmanships that survive on the streets of all our cities is in decline and this kind of help would be done, I will repeat once again, a 13% reduction in VAT, prompted and helped to preserve the hairdressing business. Services in hair salons are provided directly to end consumers, and as a consequence of the high share of VAT, there is a direct threat of increased work to black. It is necessary to take more seriously the problems of the hairdressing profession in view of its importance in society. During the recent quarantine, we realized how many people, as well as all society, are important personal arrangements provided by hairdressers. For this reason, it would certainly be good to facilitate their survival because of all the benefits they provide to the community. The revenues that neutralise the negative effect of the VAT reduction are calculated on the basis of the hairdressing salon structure according to the current threshold for entering the VAT system and some other criteria. From analysis and assessment, it is evident that a reduction in the overall VAT rate for hairdressing services to 13% would result in a much higher number of hairdressing salons in the VAT system and, of course, an increase in the number of employees. According to the realistic scenario, this would result in a total income of 68 million kuna of all cumulative effects over a period of 5 years. It would also increase the number of hair salons that would enter the VAT system over 5 years, at an estimated 206%. Over a period of 5 years, as many as 700 new people would be employed in the hairdressing profession. The total increase of €17 million in VAT revenue from the consumption of new employees' personal income is also not negligible. We can expect a total additional revenue of 30 million kuna from the payment of VAT from the salon and from the newly employed over a period of 5 years. On top of that, we can expect an additional revenue of €38 million from the payment of new employees' contributions over a period of 5 years. So, it would be really fine, and I will also remind once again in the form of a parliamentary issue, the respected Mr. Finance Minister, Marić, we will address the debate on this subject once again, because the members of this initiative really well explained and brought through market analyses and brought good and constant reasons here to all to reduce their VAT rate from 25% to 13%. I also see here some playful views, so I'll say, yes, they need to cut the VAT when they start taking up hairstyles and we're bald. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83085	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83086	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. They say that the mirror of every country and the way each country treats itself is how it regulates itself, how it is maintained, how it expands, and how it plans its railways. For a long time, unfortunately, the railways have been sealed, our railway infrastructure, little to say from the last century, the timetables are copied, freight traffic on railways is almost negligible, which traffics by rail roads etc., etc. And on the other hand, you see these orderly states that we're looking for, look at the French TGV, look at the fast trains in Germany, look at the federal railways in Austria, or if you want to see a country closer to us with a similar history, let's look at Hungary and its Intercity trains that traffic multiple times a day from all major cities to Budapest and vice versa, and it takes you literally a few hours to reach Budapest. Now, look at Croatia, look at the rail infrastructure that is falling apart, look at the railway line that passes through the Podravine where what the engineers say the railway is dancing because the thresholds are rotten, they simply don't keep the rails in place anymore, and they actually drive as slowly as they can and beg God to pass that stock. Here's a picture of HH. When we think of Croatia as an entry point for goods from different parts of the world, a point of entry into the EU or when we think about our ports, such as the port of Ploče, or the port of Rijeka or the port of Zadar, the port of Osijek, Vukovar, etc., most of the burdens actually go by rail traffic and in fact rail traffic is well organised and modern except that it provides connections, except as well as ensuring fast, efficient and cheap traffic also relieves roads and increases traffic safety. In Croatia, however, this is not all the case. And rail traffic should also be observed through another prism of integration, above all our country, which, for historical reasons, has a slightly strange shape, is not compact territory and sometimes it is difficult to connect some parts of Croatia. What exactly do I want to talk about? About the connection of the fourth-largest city in Croatia, Osijek from which I come which unfortunately fell below 100,000 inhabitants and only on its example will I give you a very plastic example of what the situation in the passenger transport is, and then we can paint it on other modes of transport in the railway. Namely, two direct governments leave Osijek for Zagreb daily at 5.20 in the morning, the other at 16.10 p.m., and they drive, this morning 4.41 minutes, and this afternoon 4,53 minutes. I'll only distract you that in the '80s it's so-called. The Frenchman when a special train was imported, which was transported on the same route to Zagreb, arrived in less than three hours. On the other hand, from Zagreb to Osijek you have three governments in 6.48, at 7.31, at 16.35, and only this one at 16.35 drives less than five hours and 4,54 minutes while the rest drive over five hours. So we're talking about a timetable that's usually not like that, and those trains are usually late. In light of what I've told you, let's look now at the state's care towards one part of Croatia, let's now look at the connection of that part of Croatia that again and again, and I have to keep repeating it from this pay phone, demographically, economically and socially devastated. Take a look at the link to Zagreb and then the rest of the world. The message we send is more than devastating, literally that Osijek, Slavonia, the East of Croatia is the appendix of Croatia for which people don't care much. The only trains that go from Osijek are those that need to carry people somewhere far outside Croatia. What raises hope is that in this financial perspective, the government has provided far more significant resources in modernising railway lines. But if it is judged according to the two-year renewal, and the money is on the bill, I fear that our railways, as well as the East of Croatia, but the whole of Croatia as such do not wait for better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83087	Thank you very much. That's what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue as I said on Tuesday 25. January at 9.30 and the first item will be the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities, first reading, and now I wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13:46 p.m. Dear William Matula will now speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83235	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Three of the intervention officers who were filmed beating up migrants and violently returning them to BiH, this is a recording that went around the world, and in particular all the European media transmitted it to the three intervention officers, so the first-degree disciplinary court in Osijek has imposed a suspended suspension of the state service. So these three cops are being suspended for now. However, Dragan Umičević, a volunteer of the civil association Are you Syrious, a Croatian defender who helped the unhappy Hosseina family who, with 11 children and with unhappy Madina, sought asylum, helped them to get asylum in Croatia, therefore it was not suspended, he received 60 thousand kunas to pay which he could not pay from his defence pension, but fortunately, the citizens gathered and they collected those fines within a record period of less than 24 hours and only showed that there is a strong solidarity in Croatia. However, this radical decision by the disciplinary court is yet another difficult slap on Croatia's idealized picture that the government and the ruling majority are trying to impose. Namely, in this delicate narcissistic picture, Croatia sees Croatia as a fundamentally civilized human country, a country in which the law is respected, in which police are sadistically not living on unprotected people and in which the violation of the law and its cover-up are not state policy. This verdict, however, speaks quite the opposite. But let's just think of a short time before that. We've got a hot slap from the Council of Europe. There is probably a secretary-general, Mrs. Pejcinović Buric, and she performs the demonstration and cuts the salami. So, let us remember the publication of an explosive report by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Inhumane or Demeaning Treatment, which is the Council of Europe's committee under CPT. The publication of the report was banned for a year by the Croatian Government. The CPT in the report says that it is clearly a well-studden relationship between the operands, the treatment of migrants, and that persistent denial of any irregularities in the work of Croatian police officers by the MUP combined with lack of control mechanisms means that police officers do not stop at all from treating migrants violently and that they are sure that they will not answer for their actions. I was already talking about the unanimous decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the unfortunate Madina Husini here which is the same difficult slap for the picture the Croatian Government is trying to create. However, pay attention now to Europe's insistence to compensate for this lack of control mechanism has arrived a half-yearly report on an independent monitoring mechanism for the conduct of law enforcement officers in the area of illegal migration and international protection of June-December 2021. The work version states that police carry out illegal deterrences of migrants, acknowledge implementation. But watch this, a week later in the final version of the entire report, only that sentence is changed and the police say they are carrying out the allowed deterrents per article. 13. and watch this, and in mine suspected areas in isolated cases and unauthorized. Just to remind you, one of the associations that Minister Bozinovic chose to monitor him independently is in this mechanism the Croatian Medical Sciences Academy. The president of you to others imagine Prof. Dr. Alemka Markotic, financial secretary who do you think he is? Dr. Kronoslav Capak that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83291	We will vote on it when the conditions are met and we will move on to a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the first representative, Nino Rasdic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83292	For some time now, we have witnessed the conflict between Pantovac and the Ban Courts over the acquisition or modernisation of military equipment, which is already becoming a tradition. As it was during the time when the president was Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic when they tried to challenge the MiG's remont from the hills when they were incomprehensible to the number of operational aircraft. Not that it wasn't a problem for anyone to share classified data, but that the HDZ still supported the unsupervised former presidents. So far, we still don't know how many operational armored transporters we have, but we know they're out of date and it's time to replace them. We also know that during the former defence minister of Plenkovic Krstičević, a donation was requested from our strategic partner 84 armored transporter Bradley N2A2ODS. The word donation marks an act of donation of items granted without compensation, which may have been the intention of the former defence minister, but apparently not knowing his strategic partner has never heard of the most famous American saying ther is no free lunch, or free lunch. So most of the donations we've been looking for haven't been free, and some are obviously neither justified as getting a large number of armored ant trucks that are going down on Jankomir today. We also had a donation of 16 Kia's combat helicopters whose operational need at the time was questionable, but let's at least most of them are correct and fly. There's a realisation of a donation to the purchase of four Black Hawk combat helicopters where two helicopters were donated to us, and two of us had to buy. Is this the way to donate our strategic partner half to a donation, and half we have to buy? If that's the way of donation, then maybe it's not so bad because mathematically speaking, what we're looking for is half the price. If so, then the question arises why did Minister Krsticevic not ask for a donation of 12 fighter F-16s? Our strategic partners would offer us 6 in donations, and 6 would buy themselves which would be very financially favourable. Or why we didn't ask for the donation of two transport planes, Hercules, because we know that by the inability of the former defence ministers, we destroyed the squadron of transport planes, that we no longer have the ability to transport equipment to our soldiers on missions around the world, that we don't have the ability to evacuate our soldiers from missions that are failing, so we have to pray for other or evacuations of Croatian citizens and countries where their safety is compromised, that we don't have the ability to transport medically and we used to have it all. They wouldn't mind giving us one Hercules and another to buy. Why didn't we ask for a drone donation, because we know that the current aircraft we use are not adequate for the tasks they perform, and that with the appropriate drones, we could control the state borders, control the coast against fires, collect intelligence for the safety of our citizens, monitor the Adriatic for the needs of other ministries. We wouldn't mind having one drone donated to us, say, the Ripper guy and the other to buy. There's a lot of donations we could've asked for but we didn't, so the question is, why? The key question is whether we have a elaborate process of equipping the Armed Forces in which the profession would conclude exactly what we need in line with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, and not someone else to tell us what our needs are, so let's see what is needed by donation and what is to be obtained on the market at a full price. It's currently unclear in which cases we're looking for donations, and in which cases we're doing it through public procurement. When do we accept donations and when not? Are our requests for donations or donations of our partners in line with the real needs of the Armed Forces. Because of the lack of answers to these questions, we are currently witnessing another media dispute about a donation that they are not 100% sure is what we really need. Because if the government were safe then the final decision on a donation in a process that lasted more than two years would not be made at the last minute. This leaves the impression that the decision is made under the pressure of the Americans or the president of the Republic, and contrary to the government's wishes. Or maybe resisting the government is a desire for this donation by ruling to play in the field where they are well in play, which is corruption and buying the favor of European powers for future chaires of our feathers. We can't know. Croatia, as we wish, will know exactly what it needs from its equipment based on an assessment of its own military science. When you know that you will first see if any of these can be obtained in a donation or with a discount from strategic partners, and the rest will be obtained in a transparent public procurement process, not like this. We're paying for what we might get for free, and at the same time we get a donation of what we don't need and it's cost. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83293	Thank you. A respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u83464	I'd like to remember today the anniversary that we've marked these days, it's 30 years since the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. Rarely, they ask where we would be today if Croatia had not been able to resist the terrible aggression of JNA and Serbian rebels at the time. 30 years ago, a third of Croatia was occupied, destroyed, burned, thousands dead and exiled. It was worth surviving all of this, resisting and resisting the battlefields and managing to convince the world that the only solution is the recognition of the Croatian state in which Croatia has succeeded, thank God. Military victories sided with diplomatic struggle, so we are most grateful to Croatian defenders, especially those who have built their lives into the foundations of our country. We are particularly aware here of the role played by the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, without his wisdom and determination, while at the same time at peace this historic moment would not be feasible. Today, when we turn back and try objectively and based on facts to subscribe to the balance, we will find that in 30 years of international recognition Croatia has achieved a great deal. Membership in essential associations and organisations, and as the crown of everything, I would like to cite membership in the EU and NATO pact. And today Croatia has turned to achieving new priorities, which are entering the Schengen and the Eurozone as well as the OECD. Unfortunately, in the last two years, we have faced probably the biggest challenges since the Homeland War, the pandemic and the consequences of the earthquakes that have put health and life protection in the first place and the recovery and economic recovery of all our citizens. Despite the crisis in early 2020 For the first time, as a member of the EU, we have successfully chaired the EU Council, and as a young country, Croatia is becoming more and more respected as a member of the European family, active in creating a global policy and helping other countries. Despite all these challenges over the next decade, Croatia is moving towards economic growth, social justice and further building of a society that will guarantee stability and security. In this sense, Croatia will make additional efforts in the demographic recovery and raising the living standard of young people to ensure their stay in Croatia, but also to encourage the return of our emigrants to Croatia. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, guided by the fundamental values of today's Croatia, we need to address the foundations and themes of the future and the challenges of the modern age, while respecting all worldly and political differences. This responsibility is on all of us, so let's get out of our differences all of what's positive and what's constructive. May this significant anniversary be our incentive to fight together for a better and more prosperous future of our Croatia. This is what we are bound by all the sacrifices we have suffered in the creation of a free Croatia. Together, let us face all the challenges bravely and boldly as ever. That's what we proved, and we can do it. So let us use all our potentials and build Croatia today as we have defended and created it with our heart and strength in the 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88068	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition of the agenda of the 10th session from the new 8 points. The draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4 Rules of Procedure of Written Objections on the proposal to supplement the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items of the agenda, there are 8, included for the 10th session. So we have, there were no additions or any proposals, and they're considered adopted. We begin with the first item of the agenda today: - Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 175; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The government has submitted amendments in accordance with Article. 202 Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development with us is Madam Secretary of State. Natasha Mikush Zigman, who will introduce us to this bill. What? Stanka. Here you go, Mr. Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88069	Dear Vice-President of HS, I demand a break because of the galloping inflation in Croatia. Today, representatives of the government have come here to amend the Consumers Act, but I ask you who will spend at all in Croatia, given that citizens will live harder and harder because wages will remain the same, and prices will rise, as they have so far. Do you know that in the last 10 months he has collected every other food product in Croatia? Do you know the prices of some food products have increased as much as 150%? Did you know that fruit prices were rising, vegetables, eggs? The prices of bread, oil, flour, sugar have increased sharply, so basic provisions of life. Even toilet paper picked up almost 50%. A day ago, a daily press published a comparison between Germany, France and Croatia. In Germany and France, food is 35% cheaper in Croatia, but there are 3 times as many salaries as in Croatia. 3,000 euros compared to less than 1000 euros. And how can you expect citizens to pay for it, which they have, and Croatian citizens have the lowest salary throughout the EU. So in Croatia it really needs to be a magician, David Copperfield, to survive from month to month. The Czech prime minister announced a major crisis at the end of this year. Hungary has frozen the prices of its food products. Poland has abolished VAT on fertilisers, food and gas. Even Serbia has frozen the prices of its products. What is the Croatian Government doing? So everyone protects their citizens except the Croatian government who says they might do something, but we don't know when or what. If the fight against inflation by this government will be as successful and rapid as the recovery by the earthquake of the destroyed areas, then it is expected that another tens of thousands of people from Croatia will be evicted next year, so I urge you to accept our proposal to freeze the prices of basic food supplies in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88070	Thank you, Mr. Bernardich. Thank you. Of course, the break is approved also on the basis of an article. 293 Rules of Procedure, we proceed immediately with the debate, but the break is granted. They've got before? There isn't. The secretary of state, ma'am. Natasha Mikush Zigman will introduce us to the final proposal for a law on final consumer protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. Here, I am pleased to have the opportunity to present the final proposal of the Consumer Rights Act immediately. This way, however, I would like to point out those main reasons why this law was being drawn up, as well as the newspaper that he brings. So one of the reasons for the adoption of this Act is the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2019/2161, so on. The Omnibus directive, which actually contains 4 consumer directives. Since we are witnessing naturally continuous development and digital tools, we have also adapted the regulation in part of the definitions and provisions relating to earlier legal arrangements in part of such consumer contracts to include, or strengthen this digital segment. The way in which the written objection is submitted, i.e. the result of the adaptation, i.e. the adoption of the Directive, is adapted to the current means of communication, digital means of communication. I believe that this is extremely important and that the platforms through which consumers can purchase products and services have an obligation to clearly point out whether the consumer makes a consumer contract when buying, therefore, a contract with a trader or another contract, so in the case of a contract between two natural persons, which is also possible through the platform, and in which case the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act cannot be applied, since the Law refers to a contract between traders and consumers. At the end of 2021, we noticed that a significant number of articles appeared in the media space on how this Final Bill required a trader's obligation to highlight 3 prices and 2, as was the case so far. I would like to say this way that we still leave only two prices to traders. The difference between the previous legal arrangement and the one that we propose to this Final Bill is actually in favour of consumers because now traders will be obliged at a reduced price to point out the lowest price applicable to certain goods 30 days before the reduction, and we think that, in fact, the consumer will have much more correct and better information than before. The harmonisation with the provisions of the Directive has also resulted in the extension of the so-called blacklists or circumstances which, without exception, always represent unfair business practice, thus adding false consumer reviews or recommendations to that list and failure to indicate that product reviews, whether consumers who actually used or bought such a product are immediately unfair business practices and can be adequately sanctioned. We also took advantage of one of the options provided for by the Omnibus Directive for Member States, which is that it is more regulated to make unsolicited visits to the home by traders. This is also to ensure a higher level of consumer protection, especially for those of our citizens who are older. A practice of traders that have not been regulated so far, which have been violated by consumer rights, for example, in the case of dual quality of goods, has been established. They are also more detailedly regulated by this proposal for a regulation and are now more precise as to the conditions under which such placing of goods on the market is considered unfair business practice. The result of the transposition by the Directive is also the regulation of effective and dissuasive fines for traders responsible for the most serious infringements of the collective interests of consumers, in the case of infringements of the rights or widespread infringements, therefore occurring in two Member States, other than the country in which the employer or trader is located or so on. widespread infringements of rights with a Union dimension where such infringements occur even in 2/3 of Member States. For such infringements, therefore, the amount of fines which is a minimum of 4% of the annual turnover of the trader is foreseen. In addition to these main provisions, which I have highlighted in terms of compliance with the Directive, the provisions of this final proposal of the law are therefore the result of the application of regulations, so far as we have introduced, for example, the definition of written objection in a way that can now be declared even when the consumer contract is not yet concluded, so in the pre-contractual phase, when the consumer is dissatisfied with the business of traders, for example, in cases of complaints of unfair or aggressive business practice. Furthermore, we added to the trader's obligation that, when responding to the written complaint, it is clearly apparent that the consumer complaint, as regards public services, has been established in the list of public services, has been added to the list of public services and is also possible to state the objection. In the part of harmonising with the Law on Mandatory Relations, the deadline of 6 months is extended to the period of a year within which the trader is now carrying a burden of evidence for the existence of a material deficiency. Furthermore, in relation to the current Law, this Final Proposal does not contain provisions which are subject to a professional examination for the conduct of consulting activities for associations because we believe that the competences of a member of an association can be established in other slightly less burdensome ways, such as the résumé of a member of an association from which the work experience and qualifications for the conduct of such operations are demonstrated. Furthermore, in consultation with the competent implementing bodies, primarily the State Inspectorate, the provisions relating to the authority of individual authorities in the exercise of supervision are further elaborated and as follows. Content, modes and deadlines for giving consumer performances are prescribed, the obligations and deadlines for declaring traders on the consumer's presentation on the request for an inspector, as well as sanctions in the event that the trader does not meet the request of the competent inspector within that time limit. It is also prescribed that additional powers of the inspector will be possible to carry out supervision of the purchase with a covert identity, then, the possibility of issuing a temporary measure relating to the removal of content or restrictions of access to the Internet interface and in detail the situations in which the competent inspector will not submit an indictment proposal or those situations in which he will do so without delay if it is a serious type of offence. As regards the difference between the first and second readings, nomotechnical remarks of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament have been accepted. I would also like to make sure that we also accept all the nomotechnical remarks made by the committee in the second reading of this final proposal. And we have also made certain amendments in Article 26(2) in such a way that it is now stated that the executive body of the unit of local self-government is obliged to establish a decision on the establishment of an advisory body for the protection of consumer rights and all in order to avoid possible doubts in practice and ultimately because of the unification of practice, and this also resulted during the debate in the first reading of the law. Furthermore, Article 47 is complemented in a way that sets out in more detail who is carrying the costs of product art with digital elements, depending on whether it is a one-time or continuous delivery. In this way, this regulation is again in line with the Law on Mandatory Relations. Article 79(1) has been corrected in such a way that it is no longer prescribed that the time limit for the unilateral termination of the contract is 30 days if it is a contract concluded during unsolicited visits by consumers in the home has already been brought into line with the other situations in which the one-sided breakup situation occurs for 14 days. In Article 139(4), we made it clear in which situations the units of local self-government are obliged to provide room for consumer consultation. These are therefore those situations where consumer organisations or other natural or legal persons are selected by the basis of a public tender for the performance of these tasks. Furthermore, an amendment to Article 149 has been made which reduces the maximum fine that can be imposed on traders from 500 000 kuna to EUR 200 000. This also stemmed from a debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Discussions during the first reading. And it has been corrected in a way that clearly states that the procedures which have been initiated until the date of entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law or under the provisions of this law, depending on what is easier for the perpetrator, which is the usual legal norm. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also submitted additional amendments to the final proposal for a law submitted in the second reading. The reason why we have submitted such amendments is because the European Commission adopted guidelines for interpreting and implementing Article 6 following the final proposal for a bill to the Parliament. The Consumer Protection Directives when highlighting prices, and in these guidelines, it states that the provisions on the emphasising of prices during specific sales are related to goods and the sale of services within business premises, but not to the sale of services outside business premises, i.e. via the Internet. And we have therefore amended Article 19 accordingly, paragraphs 6 and 7 have been added, and in accordance with these amendments, amended and inspection measures and infringements related to the emphasising of prices. That would be so much on my side in the introduction. I thank you for your attention, and I'm available for your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88072	Thank you very much. You have replicas. The first replica of Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. First of all, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I thank you for accepting these nomotechnical amendments, and now I would like to ask you about the consumer reviews you mentioned in the presentation, so can you explain to us a little more how they are governed by this new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88074	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88075	Thanks for asking. It is indeed one important segment or new segment that we are now entering into the final draft law. Consumer reviews are arranged in a way that the internet platform, i.e. the provider of such services, must clearly indicate, on the basis of which consumer reviews are based, that they are indeed based on real experience, on the consumer who has used such a service, in fact, offering a service, i.e. marketing, or advertising such a service, in fact preventing a possible practice in which the consumer may choose to buy a particular service based on inexcusable, untrue or untrue consumer reviews. A good example is the situation in which we book or buy hotel accommodation based on consumer reviews that we see in the quality of such accommodation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88076	Mrs. Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88077	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the final proposal for a consumer protection law that lies before us today will achieve a high level of consumer protection, then better functioning of the internal market, creating greater added value in the economy, and a higher level of legal certainty for consumers and traders. In this regard, in order to protect consumers effectively from being extremely important for inspection services, it is therefore my question of how the newspaper that this law introduces will improve the implementation of regulations, i.e. protect our citizens as consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88078	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88079	Thank you very much for asking. What this final proposal for a law, as I have pointed out in the introduction, is that more transparent introduction will be given to consumers and traders in the way in which this inspection procedure is actually carried out. In particular, it is clear which documents must be made by consumers when submitting a consumer’s representation according to the competent inspection of the body. There is also the possibility of supplementing such a notion, so a 10-day deadline is given to the consumer for the complete presentation unless it contains all the necessary data. The powers of the inspector shall also be laid down to ask the trader to make an indication of such a consumer performance. And as I mentioned, some new ways of conducting surveillance are being introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88080	- Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88081	Thank you very much. Respected State Secretarys, the law in question is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation, but also to modernise and improve consumer rights protection. One option introduced by the final draft law is the possibility of submitting written objections through means of network communication. What does this mean in practice, can the consumer, for example, object through the Viber application and how will he prove that he has submitted it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88082	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88083	Thank you for asking. Yes, this final bill is of course accompanied by the development of digital tools and, therefore, through some new mechanisms of digital enabling and submission of consumer complaints or performances. However, what is important is that it can be those tools through which it is possible to store information about the time and method of submission of the objection, which specifically means that, for example, the objection will be submitted through the natural email, through chats, but it is not possible to submit objections through applications such as Viber or WhattApp for reasons that they do not enable or satisfy this additional criterion of storage of time and communication content, and in fact there is no sign of the object submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88084	Mr. Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88085	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, ma'am. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So I think that we are all more or less aware together, it was seen through the debate in the first reading and through the discussion on the Committee on the Economy that this law is indeed a serious step in protecting consumer rights in all segments, a large part of it you have touched in your presentation and will probably encourage other colleagues who will talk ahead and negotiate in front of clubs. What intrigues me personally and perhaps would be good to comment on because it was a subject that was often in public and public space, which is a subject of dual food quality in the context of consumer rights protection, and to what extent this law is affecting it, is it exclusively and quantifiable for this topic and what progress we have made in this regard, here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88086	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88087	Thank you very much for asking. This is indeed an extremely important topic for our citizens. So I have to say it's now in art. The 35rd century states that goods are prohibited from being placed on the market by the Republic of Croatia, with the claim that they are identical to the goods of other countries, if they are in reality different in terms of composition or characteristics, and this is indeed a major step in relation to current practice and legal arrangements. What I must say further, however, is that there may be certain exceptions if, for example, the legal system of a particular country prohibits or restricts in some way the use of certain foods or the percentage of foods in the product or the product is based on seasonal goods, in which case there may be a difference in the goods placed on the market and this is then seen from case to case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88088	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88089	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary with an expert associate. As we have heard from your opening presentations to the Consumer Protection Act not only introduce a directive but also raise the quality of consumer protection, this is, above all, also the way new supervisory bodies are introduced. So far, we have had to worry about surveillance, first of all, about the state inspectorate, the NNB and the Croatian Network Service Regulatory Agency, and now we are introducing the final bill to HANFA, and we are introducing the agricultural inspection of the State Inspectorate, so would you please say specifically what these two new institutions are going to contribute to and what will be their role?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88090	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88091	Thank you very much. Well, here's precisely maybe to stay at the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency because it is precisely the area of financial literacy and supervision of institutions that are working on financial markets of exceptional interest to our citizens as consumers. This surveillance has existed before, however, it has been further strengthened this way and it is prescribed in fact or I would like to say that education in the section of financial literacy that is so important to our citizens is one of the strategic objectives of doing precisely Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, so already in practice a number of activities that are going in this direction, from the special website "Money for Tomorrow" where you can get very good information for financial literacy to holding lectures for students, for adults, to marking suitable events such as "Money Week" etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88092	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Budinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88093	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here it is, my question is about your answer. When we talk about the financial literacy of our consumers, consumer protection, financial literacy is an extremely important segment. Unfortunately, the data shows that our citizens are not well informed or educated in the conclusion of financial affairs, so my question is, what are you doing to correct this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88094	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88095	Thanks for asking. It's actually a sequel here's what I've just exhibited. So we're working a lot on educating all segments of society from students to students to adults. It is primarily for these activities that HANFA, CNB, and of course they do so in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. And here's what I can give you for 2021. In spite of the circumstances of the pandemic, 50 lectures were held and 3,200 persons were included only through the activities carried out by HANFA.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88096	Thank you. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88097	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Buying on the Internet is increasingly common, although it can still be said that consumers in Croatia are buying goods on the line in a small number or via a special route via internet platrophries. Is this law actually designed in some way to ensure that the purchases are secure and responsible for online platforms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88098	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88099	Thank you. I would say only in the introduction that there are a number of initiatives at EU level that are actually intended to increase consumer safety in the use of digital tools, especially Internet platforms. For example, they may provide a digital service act and a digital market act currently in the trialogue process, but they also significantly protect consumers in this segment. As regards this final draft of the law, the platform must point out clearly whether the consumer, as I said when buying, is a consumer contract and then the provisions of the law apply to it, or, for example, enter into a contract with a natural person in which case, it is not protected by the provisions of the law, and if the liability of the platform and the seller is shared, the platform must clearly indicate who is responsible and for which aspect of the legal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88100	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88101	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mikush Zigman. You were talking about the Omnibus Directive and the Institute of Written Objections, and my question is this particular clue, so why is the definition of the written objection being extended in this legislative proposal? I was also looking at the provisions of the Omnibus directive itself, but I did not find a similar provision. Does this mean that the said will eventually and potentially open up the possibility of unwarranted objections if, for example, the merchant was a little less in the mood or got up on the wrong foot so he was not happy, happy, etc. and so on.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88102	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88103	Thank you very much. Of course, the regulations we propose must also take into account the balance between traders and consumers, but this actually wants to affect the injuries that could be committed in the pre-contractual phase, so before the contract is concluded itself. As an example, I can tell you the situation in which the trader visits the consumer in his home, it is possible, however, to ignore the consumer's demand to leave his home and in which case the consumer has the right to submit such an objection, there is no contract, but this regulation is then protected, or, for example, if the trader does not fulfil his contractual obligations, then of course he also has the right to object.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88104	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88105	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. The aim of this law, as well as the directives, is to achieve as much consumer protection as possible, what is interesting in this proposal and to further protect consumers in both our country and what you said about the special forms of selling two prices, so those which are then validly reduced, but also those that must be the lowest in the previous 30 days. So there is another additional security where inspection services and consumers themselves will be much more protected, and not that there are major oscillations or current price increases, and then high reductions, and that is actually cheating on consumers themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88106	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88107	That is right, we wanted this provision to jump to the kind of practice in which the trader would possibly raise the price before the downturn, and then he reduced afterwards, and pointed out these two prices in a way that actually deceives consumers and these provisions are now clearly prescribed that the price should be highlighted 30 days before the special form of sales itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88108	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88109	Welcome to the law. Dear all present. We're glad to have something on the table that should have been brought maybe a few years ago, but it's a good thing it's now. What is missing from this law is to actually follow people who control the implementation of the law itself. So we know that inspection services are therefore not sufficiently educated, especially as far as Internet trade is concerned. What are you going to do about this, will the implementing regulations be adopted in time and conduct the inspector’s education? And the employees of consumer associations refused the proposal to finance the salary from the ministry's funds, which you think should be done by local self-government units, which is amazing. So, consumers are all of us, not just citizens of municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88110	Time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88111	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, my question is on the trail of the previous question. So research shows that consumers in protecting their rights in all 6.8% contacted institutions dealing with this, and only 4% contacted different associations. Now, the fact is that, in the main cases, consumers directly contact producers, i.e. contact the protection of their rights to those sold to them. It seems to me that there would be much more important education, that it would be more significant and that consumers would really be aware that their rights are significantly greater than they think at this point they have, and I think it is important to really encourage work, not just institutions, but work and associations, and that this can be done in several ways. One, of course, is the way to be educated, but another way to have that particular financial assistance. I am interested in what your position is, and in what sense will the Ministry of State's policy continue in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88112	Time. .../incomprehensible... here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88113	Thank you very much for asking. Indeed, the segment of cooperation with associations is extremely important, as regards consumer information, precisely informing is one of the most important segments, i.e. the backbone of the National Consumer Protection Programme, which is also presented in this esteemed House, meaning for the period from '21-'24. Mr, and as for working with associations, last year, for the first time in fact, with the cooperation of the Civil Society Foundation, we have opened a tender for institutional support to associations because in communication with the same organisations we have just learned, we have come to the realization that this kind of support is important to associations so that they can do their part of the work and information of consumers and we will continue on this trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88114	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88115	I was going to ask you something else, but I was actually interested in your answer. You said just now that when consumers object, so they can't stand the objections to Whatsapp, Viber, etc., because I didn't understand the reason because there's no way to prepare the time when the complaint was sent. I mean, both in Whatsapp and Viber you have both time and content and there are technically, given that I am technical professions, there are ways that this content can be preserved and if you can explain a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88116	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88117	I can, of course. Thank you for asking. We know that when using such applications, the message is very easy to delete, and this is actually losing track of the message being sent and that the consumer then objected. For this reason, such means of objecting are not provided for in this normative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88118	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88119	Dear secretary, there is an area in Internet business that is unfortunately not regulated by this Law either. Unfortunately, it's not even regulated by the Directive, and that's part of the advertising when you log into a platform through which you buy some products via another platform. In particular, if you log on via Facebook or via Google platform, then you lose actually information about who collected the data and how he collected the data. I think it would also be necessary for us in Croatia, and also at the level of Europe to regulate it in a way that knows who collected these data because it is actually two laws, it is this Consumer Protection Act and it is GDPR. Someone collects personal data and then uncontrollably sends them to other users, which is actually not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88121	Thank you very much. Your question is actually much broader than the consumer protection segment itself, and these issues are currently dealing with these two acts that I mentioned earlier, means the act on digital services and the act on digital markets currently in the process of trilogues between the Council, Parliament and the EU Commission. They will therefore limit their business, i.e. the work of Internet platforms precisely in a way that they cannot give data to other service providers and that they are then used to offer products and services to consumers and will also be limited to the possibility of those jumping out of jump windows, meaning where an aggressively promotes a particular product or service, so they will be able to go in a limited form compared to how, what we are experiencing now when we go out on the Internet and then we are locked up by all those jump windows, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88122	Thank you. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88123	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you if there was any thought in the Government about how to protect consumers and Croatian citizens from the unreasonable decisions of the Croatian Government. One of them is, for example. the freezing of fuel prices and we now have a situation where the barrel of oil, so when the price fell, then of course, those who during that period when the frozen price was lost, raise prices and regardless of the oil barrel's fall, our citizens pay for the fuel at very high prices. So whether government is at all considering what the Government can do to avoid harming consumers, rather than passing such laws, which in fact will not improve the position of consumers. So, logical decisions, that's the government's job. The suspension of excise duty on fuel, not the freezing of prices. Because in the end, it will all be paid by Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88124	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88125	Thank you. Here, I am pleased that in principle there is an agreement on the positive provisions of this regulation that we propose to the Parliament for adoption by most MPs. This regulation deals with consumer protection from traders and service providers. I don't think the government belongs to traders, so it's hard to comment on us that way, and I would also say that here we are at the beginning of the debate and we heard a proposal to limit or freeze prices, so somehow it seems to me that your proposal is going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88126	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88127	Dearly respected Vice-President of the Assembly, I ask you to warn Mrs. Secretary of State to stay on the professional level with your comments and not to in any way belittle the motions of MPs because it is not known that people in Croatia have difficulty living, that pensioners go with coins to the store, pay bread, eggs, milk, cheese, they do not see it, they do not feel it in the government of the Republic of Croatia and act as if nothing is happening in our country. Inflation of the devouring of our citizens, devours Croatia And you laugh on the side and you talk calmly. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88128	Thank you, Mr Bernardić, and for formal reasons I have to give you a warning because you did not call on the article, and the other things are the secondarys at that moment although I think, my opinion and your opinion at that point, my opinion does not matter what you said. You're looking for a break, please, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88129	I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on these State Secretary statements, which shows absolutely insensitivity to the situation in Croatia. On the fact that people live not on the poverty threshold, but that some are already deep in poverty, that they do not realize that the government to which it belongs is not logical only making the position of Croatian citizens worse. I warned you of the fact that the freezing of fuel prices has led to the fact that those who were at a loss are now on the back of Croatian citizens. I warned you that you must urgently move towards the suspension of excise duties, the reduction of VAT on gas and everything else because the rise in gas prices will ultimately lead to a rise in food prices. It will lead to the growth of things necessary for agricultural production from artificial fertilisers further, and it is obvious that no one in the government understands the gravity of the situation. At the 9th month, we warned about inflation, we brought in Governor Vujčić and Governor Vujčić later said there was a possibility of a loan growth in the euro and what happened, Prime Minister Plenkovic gave him a pack because Governor Vujčić warns of what will happen. This shows that you only care about your own rating, that you only care about your own positions, and that you do not care about how Croatian citizens live. Inflation is huge, price increases are huge, finally doing something. You can't act like this, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88130	First, the break is also approved on the basis of Article 293b. We continue the debate, and we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88131	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 and a number of other articles have been injured. I think it was also your duty as vice president to stop this bitter reaction by my colleague Bernardic, and then my colleagues Grumoje where they irrefutablely attack the secretary of state who didn't even talk about the subject they were talking about, so they've mixed absolutely the topics but political and other attentions never enough of them, I think you should have warned them, and this was above all non-gentlemenic. to the secretary of state. [[Intruder: Time, Time Mr. Ivanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88132	It was a replica, you have a warning. Mr. Grmoya you want, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, do you want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88133	Article 238 has been injured, so counterpart Ivanovic says we are not talking about the topic, the topic is consumer protection, the topic is inflation and the topic is a bad situation in which Croatian citizens are present. This is not a topic for Mr. Ivanovic, because he and his family are doing well because he is stroking the money of Croatian citizens, it is not a topic for him. We witness their affairs from day to day. They are not the subject of poverty because they actually do not live in poverty, but because of their behaviour are Croatian citizens in poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88134	Thank you very much. I'm saying again I'm not getting into any of the content you have a warning because it was a replica on the line, and already that first replica was given because of that replica was a warning. So you've got a warning, and there's Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88135	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 was injured by his colleague Grmo. The Rules of Procedure here on a personal level offends a colleague which is not really right, we're all really equal here. A colleague, Ivanovic, did not speak in such a way about what you said just said that you deliberately attacked the secretary of state because she did not talk about inflation, and if you want to talk about it, you can call down the press and talk about whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88136	Thank you. I'm letting you speak, of course. You have a warning because it was a replica again. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I mean, it's gotten a little corny all along. Mr Marin Miletić Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go. And wait a minute, just a moment, excuse me. I'm obliged to ask before, I'm sorry, I'm obliged to ask if anyone from the board wants to intervene, no, then go ahead, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88137	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague, I'm a little emotional, so I hope I don't get to be chaired by this one because I have to react like this. So, I'll talk about the subject of course because I read the statement by the main PR. We can say that these good old times in which they killed Catholic priests in Yugoslavia, named Josip Jagic, so I'm shocked, I can't come to myself. I'd like to, you know, uh, I can't come to myself, here, really. So no pathetic, no false emotions, so what kind of country do we live in? We should be talking here today, about consumer protection, I've prepared myself here, I've been helped by people, is it, whose profession it is, who are dealing with it, I don't know, like some wizard I feel, in heaven and on earth. So Croatia needs a real and fair and good modern left, society needs a normal left, as Croatia needs both the centre and the right center and the right and everything, but this way. Those good old times where they killed Catholic priests in Yugoslavia. So I don't know where I live. And I don't know what to say, I'm in shock, I'm really in shock. Josip Jagić, first name and last name on Twitter, we have screens, so disaster, PR, main mag Moma. May the Lord have mercy on us all. The consumer protection law we need, I'm just afraid if we have such radical extremists in society and if, I don't know, we have such policies that lead to eviction, who are we going to protect in a few years? And that's why I really don't point my finger at anyone, I think in the end that it's the task of all of us who should do everything we can, primarily ruling because they have the greatest responsibility and bring all the laws and everything else, and then we, in opposition to create an atmosphere primarily so that people don't run away from Croatia and really stay here fighting for this country that won their freedom in the Homeland War with the Croatian defenders who made it possible, amazing. So, I'm going to focus on something that's lifelike, we're all actually consumers and the secretary of state here brought a few things that I would have signed, always, I always say kind of a better step forward, even if it was small than standing in place, is it, or is it a step behind? And that is why I believe it is good to have a regulation to protect all consumers. But I have to talk about a huge increase in prices and inflation, it came out in a daily list a few days ago of comparison of basic foods in France, Germany and Croatia, and it shows that a basket of basic goods is more expensive to us than in those countries, and we know what salaries are in Croatia, and what salaries are in Germany or France. That coffee is 40 kuna pounds, in Germany 29, in France 16 kuna. Milk is more expensive, oil, a liter of oil is more expensive, flour, so these are basic foods, flour is more expensive, potatoes are more expensive, pasta. So, we're not talking about any champagne or Corlato wines, or I don't know what, but we're talking about the most basic foods. And it's inadmissible, so it needs to be arranged and regulated. So, I want to clearly warn the Croatian public to prepare themselves, and then ask the ruling to do everything they can, we will suggest something, there we have seen it not to be, we criticise it always, but as we see it might be helpful. So the price rise of all services, the price of food, the collection of energy. At the end of February 2022, the last price finals on the stock exchange are waiting, so the international markets on which natural gas is traded, and if they retain this level 6 weeks before the price is finished, the gas prices will be between 70 and 80 euros. To be plastic, annual gas consumption in Zagreb is 52000 kuna for one entire household. There are 4,500 kunas in my River. If you take that, if the price is 70 euros on international markets, the annual gas price will rise by about 2700 kuna per household at an annual level. That means, which means 5200 kuna as far as it's been so far plus 2700 kuna, almost 8 thousand kuna per year for a single household. In my River it will be from 4500 to 6,000 kuna. So if the price is 80 euros on international markets, which is also very easy to look at, the annual gas price will grow in Croatia by about 3700 kuna, which means 8900 kuna. So who's gonna pay for it? What will our people be warmed up with? For what? General, I can see you up there right now, you better not have been at the beginning of the introduction because we'd have to drink a liter of chamomile and four apaurins of what they're doing to us in Croatia. What they're doing to us from our country and from our society, covered in green. I'm sick. So the problem is that every year since 2015 we systematically reduce our own production. 2015 was 55%, we're talking about gas, it's 21% now, and it's actually inadmissible, we've reduced gas production ourselves, we don't have our own production, and we know what the price depends on. So, gas growth and other energy prices will increase safely and the prices of the petrochemical industry, since the gas accounts for 90% of the cost of production of the petrochemical industry, and the rise in these prices will lead to a rise in fertiliser prices, an increase in fertiliser prices will lead to an additional increase in food prices, and again, I return you to that first picture, so where we are now more expensive than France and Germany, and what is waiting for us then, what is yet to happen. So if I were ruling, I wouldn't freeze the price either. Why? So because it kills all the utility companies, is it, then, if suppliers are getting, I don't know, City gas station Zagreb at 80 euros, right, gas, and it has to sell 20 euros, what does that mean? Well, that's a year, that's where Troscott calculated me, so a billion losses. So why don't you put the key in the lock and warm up on your cell phone, yeah, turn on the fire and warm up on your cell phone. So that can't be the solution. Now, another one of our financials sends me like this, so I'm reading to you. Therefore, in the short term, the state should reduce VAT, excise duties on fuel and energy, thus reducing the impact on the prices of other products, energy prices are always calculated in the prices of absolutely everything produced from bread to car. In the long term, we do not have instruments to ensure the stability of energy prices, and a good move would be to dissipate the private sector that we in MOST are doing all the time, to enable more free business activity, which will put things in place in the economy, that is our free market, and the need for state helicopter money will disappear, the inflationary pressures will be reduced. And in order to respond to global inflation, Croatia must change structurally and we have been talking about this for a long time. I've been with people who are so in the state, police inspector one high-ranking Marine says my whole life is less and less, says this all you listen to there says these are all stories for little kids, says people who worked on these corrupt systems to put out corruption says they're gone, there's less and less, you can't get a job, you can't get ahead, you can't go anywhere without party belongings. And we have to change that. I know it's easy to say, it's hard to spend, but we have to change it. We're gonna be the only people here. I'm telling you seriously, we're gonna be alone here in the assembly, who people choose, and that's it, and I don't know pensioners who will be so old that they won't be able to cross the border with a stick. We'll be alone. Croatia didn't deserve that. The guys who killed women for this country didn't deserve it. Therefore, the public sector must be more efficient, the judiciary, the policy of less corrupt, the health sector more rationally, the pension system tends to pursue sustainability. There's another issue of demographics. This will make Croatia more attractive for new employment, investment and take advantage of trends in the reduction of supply chains from distant countries in EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88138	Thank you, too, Mr. Miletić. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Mr Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88139	Dear Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, as we stressed in the first reading on behalf of the Independent Democratic Party Club, this law is of paramount importance and therefore we pay attention to it at least to the extent that it is important in itself. To remind the present representatives and MPs here and to remind our public who may be involved in monitoring this debate, which consists of the importance of this law. I will read the provisions of Article 1, which regulates the right to protect the economic interests of consumers, to protect against risks to life and health and property, the right to consumer protection, the right to inform and educate consumers, the right to association of consumers in order to protect their interests and the right to represent consumers and the participation of consumers in the work of bodies that address issues of their interest. Thus, a very complex and broad part of which a good part falls within the fields of human rights in a broader sense of that word and understanding. What I would like in today's debate highlights are the following few things. First of all, I would like to say that it is very good that, otherwise, the good Consumer Protection Act is being improved by building on the provisions of the EU directives. This practice of embedding the EU Directives into our legislation is one of the indicators of the importance of EU membership, the importance that elements not only of legal gain but of current legal provisions are introduced into our legislation and thus used by citizens, are used by people living in the Republic of Croatia, its citizens and its citizens. This also shows the activities of some of our colleagues in the European Parliament, some of our colleagues and some of our colleagues who have determined that consumer protection is one of the important things for them. I will draw attention to certain provisions of this law, which are misleading practices and aggressive practices. Concealing practices to which consumers are listed or seduced in the decision to buy or take certain goods. The techniques of this are developing more and more day by day, and they really have nothing to do with governments or parliaments or local self-government units. They fall into the interests of traders, producers and others and who use all rhetorical means, all the means of propaganda and advertising to achieve their goal, which is to sell the product. Legally, on the other hand, there should be a restriction. The misleading techniques that harm consumers, to the detriment of financial, health-damaging, are something that must be controlled and removed. The same goes for aggressive practices. Aggressive practices of sales campaigns, aggressive practices of reaching or reaching consumers, not only through media and media channels but to doors, to mailboxes and in various other ways. Serious questions, and when some of our colleagues and colleagues use that kind of technique for their political purposes, and even today we could hear some of them, I would just remind them what it really means. On the one hand, as one of my senior fellow sociologists referred to such techniques as human souls fishermen, merchants, resellers, but also sometimes people in our business. This falls within the realm of ethics, and this falls within the sphere of law. And the legislator is obliged to protect those people. What I would say here is that this law does not regulate, but I would like to mention, the media serves as media for advertising, advertising and in different ways. Goods addressed to consumers. But I also want to say here that the information has become a commodity. I also want to say that the newspapers, the portals, the televisions that we watch, we actually need to see more and more as goods, and those who distribute rarely as merchants, don't blame me for the people of the honorable journalistic profession, but I only draw attention to the dangers on that side. What are the other headlines on certain media that are actually a reader's hunt, on clicking, that you can then come to the trader and tell you how many clicks we have, you can advertise with us. This is a problem for freedom of the media, for the right to information, and this becomes a problem, as well as for consumer protection, including those taking information as a commodity. I'm gonna be out of time, and I need to say something that seems to me to be particularly important, perhaps more important than what I've been saying so far. This is a good law, as he was, as is the text of a law that is still in force, with this going to be even better. But where's the enforcement control? We come to our stores, do we have on our products a fully declared origin of goods? We don't. I won't say we don't have any, but we don't have a consistent. With frozen food, do we have a declared date when the food is frozen? Especially with meat and meat processing. Second or third, whether there is an obligation, and by law there is a obligation that every, every commodity, every product sold in the Republic of Croatia, produced in another country, must have a translation. It must have a product declaration on the ingredients of the product, on the quality of the product in Croatian. Come to some stores, you won't find it. In some, you'll find short versions. Who's watching that? I think it's important to do it and to do it consistently. And finally, we have the National Consumer Protection Council, we have the Ministry of Economy, a special department that deals with.../incomprehensible... consumer protection, but we have less and less associations to protect consumers. 230 and something, I'm going to say the exact number, so 237, if memory serves me well from reading half an hour ago, there are associations that, in their description of their activities, record that they are dealing with consumer protection. It's really active in 10 of them. They don't finance themselves, they didn't finance themselves for a while through the office, through a press release for the Civil Society Foundation, they went through the Ministry. I think it's a weak point, a weak point in protecting our consumers right now, and we need to do everything we can to have more associations, to have a stronger consumer union and to have better funding than we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88140	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Barbara Antolic Vupra will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88141	Good afternoon to all present. Greetings to the motionary, the secretary of state, the respected Vice-President of the National Assembly, the most respected of all. So there's a law before us that we've really been waiting to be with those directives in line, we could have done it a long time ago, almost 2 years earlier, but we haven't done it, but well, today we have what we have. Introductoryly, we heard several political debates on the very law, which the law does not include and I join these discussions myself, so in the time in which we live, indeed, when consumers are all, I think that just waiting so long for this law should be a lesson that those things that are not defined today by the Consumer Protection Act to begin to think about how to regulate them into the future. So, a good direction has also been paved by Biljana Borzan when in several ways and through the EU, Parliament has influenced the fact that consumer protection here in Croatia has started to protect itself in some way and that consumers have started to be informed about the way they are being deceived, but at the same time how they can protect themselves from these frauds. The last very good victory voted in the European Parliament is that ads placed through the eu platform cannot be used to collect personal data from those who consume them. It's another victory, but we're still having a bit of a time-out for some things. As for consumers, it is also particularly important to note that we must be protected at a time of special circumstances such as the crisis, such as inflation. So the recommendation of the European Commission is to be at 1.5%. We see that we are far from that, and food and energy that should at least be somewhat protected with a reduced VAT on it, the government is obviously not thinking through the law. As far as the specific Consumer Protection Act is concerned, we can say that it will prohibit the placement of goods of different quality on our common market. It is all right, however, that implementing part that I have already asked Mrs. Secretary where you have to carry out product quality controls in one of the larger areas of an inspector who is not adequately monitored and educated in the area of Internet trade cannot guarantee that this exercise will indeed be possible in the way that it is desired. Also in terms of organisations that cover and have received more than 20,000 complaints last year, the attorney general received around 88, said that consumer protection associations must also be assisted by the ministry for the most part. Why? Because it is not enough just to finance associations, it is necessary to pay the man who will work in the municipality or city or county where information will be provided to consumers. So these people who work in associations, the ministry still stands on it, must take it under its own, not transfer me to the units of local self-government as it is in the light of this law that should exist. These developments in the second reading in this law should in particular highlight the conduct of inspection and the possibility of secret purchase. It is commendable and it is good, however, this Internet store is a very complex thing and since consumers are more accessible to web stores outside the Republic of Croatia and are subject to various frauds and so on. calls for specific knowledge and commitment of inspectors to deal with these matters. So that's a very specific example of that thesis that I said at first, so we don't have enough time to educate the inspector. The law is already there, we should think about it earlier, as we should now think about what will happen when citizens will be like consumers in front of the wall and not be protected with high energy and food prices. So now. Another innovation in this Consumer Protection Act, which is very important, is the education of students. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 140, it is said that we are a consumer society by strengthening the influence of the Internet and buying distances, and especially for young generations, it is important to provide basic education and basic education must exist at school. We have bright examples such as the Youth Council from Varazdin County from which I come where this education and financial description has been provided for several years. Such education through the Youth Council has existed for years, however, this education should become systematic and should exist at school. So, we're talking about curricula, school curricula, the question is how far did the ministry in that section get away in achieving these opportunities to make it easier for educated consumers to fight different forms of sales that are ahead of us. And lastly, I would like to look specifically at what the Internet platforms have been providing to our users for years, and in fact, it is a space that is not covered by any law, so these are platforms that use public good, public space that communication goes through that public space, and that the public space that belongs to everyone is only commercially used through the platform, and we haven't protected it as a state. And I think that should be taken care of, so all the great players of Google, Facebook and others... simply charge what's ours which is generally good. And in that sense, I think the Consumer Protection Act must be an introduction to thinking about what's ours and what's been taken from us, and it's charging us. And that's where I'd end my exposure. So, the Omnibus Directives are implemented in this bill, it will not cover everything, it is very unfair to some stakeholders such as consumer associations, so blame is transferred to local self-government units to solve this problem with consumer associations, and that the ministry washes both their faces and their so-called associations in some parts of the funding is insufficient. Consumers are not protected enough by this law and need to do more in this field, and in particular to protect public space using platforms to communicate and in a way to order food in a local restaurant, and to do so you have to pay the platform to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88142	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Davor Bernardic will speak for the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88143	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So today we are discussing amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, which actually builds on and extends one extent of consumer rights protection, provides for sanctions and provides for control mechanisms and controls, based on the 2019 European Directive, watch out from 2019. It's 2022. and my question of how can we even trust the Government to have a serious intention to protect consumers if it took you more than two years in general to copy what Europe has sent you, just to copy, you had nothing to do with that Omnibus directive. These changes are particularly important for the protection of consumers who buy their products on the Internet, who are unfortunately not well protected, are particularly important for the part of consumers who buy their products on actions, which are our pensioners, students, poor people, those who receive social benefits that are very easy to cheat, which is why these changes are important, and this law should ensure the same quality of products in Croatia as in other countries that we have already heard that it is not equal and that simply Croatia does not control it well or protect it. And then my question is how are you going to control it, how are you going to control it, and how can we trust you to control it? How can we believe that one poor pensioner who has 1,700 kuna, who comes with coins to buy a liter of oil, a kilo of flour, six eggs with coins is paid that they will not be manipulated and that no other price will be shown than the one on the action? That's what my question is. Although the law provides for fines of up to a certain percentage of the trader's income, who should control it? HNFA, the Agricultural Agency, how do you predict? Do we have a strong enough control mechanism? Well, look, trust is the basis of everything. How can someone at this time trust a government that has failed to restore one single house in Banja, the only roof in Zagreb to control millions of items on the shelves of trade chains in Croatia? How can we trust you, how can I trust you Croatian citizens? So stop painting the citizens of our country. In the last 10 months, he collected almost every other product, I was just talking about it, some have raised as much as 150%, fruit prices have increased, vegetables, meat, eggs, bread, oil, flour, sugar, so basic foods and those foods simply without which there is no normal balanced healthy life, toilet paper has even collected almost 50%. Well, that's terrible, not to say that the inflation that is galloping in Croatia that devours both fragile and missing economic growth will increase the price of interest rates. Well, it's a law in the economy, when inflation is corrected i.e. When the interest rate is adjusted, it is adjusted for the inflation rate. And do you know that these poor citizens, just before these holidays, had to raise non-intentional loans to make their little table a little more luxurious and richer just for holidays, non-intentional loans, and now their interest rate will be higher this year. So, are you even interested in how our pensioners live, socially endangered because we have witnessed that lately growing and directing, gas costs, electricity, utility fees? Did you do something about it or don't you care? You didn't take the answer. And here you boast that Croatia has record economic growth, yes, but prices are higher compared to 2019, and we have not yet returned to economic GDP on 2019, we have not returned. This means that citizens live harder and that recovery from the crisis will be longer. And if GDP is measured by purchasing power, so Purchasing power parity, Croatia is still the last in the EU only Bulgaria is behind us and it is practically just this year. So, Romanians have a higher standard of living than Croats, they used to look at our backs. As was published the other day in a daily press, a comparison between Germany and France with Croatia. So in Germany, food is 30% cheaper than in Croatia, in France 35% with different classifications of the consumer basket. And when we compare the average salaries in these three countries compared to the average salary in Croatia, which is 22,000 in Germany, so the average salary, in France 21,000 kuna, is less than that, and in Croatia only 7,000 kuna.... something below, not to say that... Even smaller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So half the citizens work for salaries that are less than 6,000 kuna. We come to a conclusion that should not be a great mathematical genius that says that the average Croat can buy four and a half times less than the average German and the average French. So, the Croatian can buy 25 or 26 consumer baskets per month, while the German and French can buy over 100, 105, 106. That's what this is about. So our standard of living just isn't the same. And the salaries in Croatia are at least throughout the European Union and then really need to be a magician in order for our country's citizens to survive from the first to the first, stretch that church, join the moon and survive, secure bread. Often not meat, but bread for their families. The Czech prime minister of course announced a major crisis by the end of the year. Hungary has frozen the prices of basic life supplies as well as Serbia, and Poland is abolishing VAT on food, i.e. to food, fertiliser and gas. What does the Croatian Government do to protect its citizens? Except that she said she'd do something, and she doesn't know when or what she'd do. So inflation gallops and they're gone again. If you will about the fight against inflation that I have said is as fast and effective as in the restoration of Banija and Zagreb since the earthquake, then you will be angry with us, you will be angry with the citizens who are leaving our country anyway. Woe to tens of thousands of people who will leave Croatia in 2022 due to rising inflation and low living standards. And I call upon you to accept our proposal to freeze the price of basic life supplies as soon as possible. I was surprised by the secretary of state who was in the way. So did you consult with the president of the government who recently went to freeze fuel prices and thus favored the oil industry only. Have you consulted? Are you in cahoots since you're from HDZ? And you're looking at that freeze with a smile. So you don't care how the citizens live, you're fine, you're in power and the citizens get along, let the church, let the bears and the coins buy six eggs. So I think wake up, wake up! Today you came here to change the Consumers Act, but I ask you who will spend it if it is known that citizens will live worse, because simple wages will not grow that is reality, and prices will continue to grow if we do not freeze at least basic life supplies. And to end here, this law mentions a black list of traders who will carry out unfair business practices. So the government decided to blacklist these traders, but every day, the decisions and moves of this government are becoming increasingly clear that they will be on the blacklist while they are exclusively Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88144	You, too. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88145	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Bernardić, injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. In most of the exposure, there was no topic, which is the Consumer Protection Act which does not regulate the issue of price freezing, the issue of the current inflation situation. He didn't stick to what the law does. So, Mr. Bernardic here does not sit the Prime Minister, the secretary of state. If you want to talk to him about freezing prices, suggest your solution to the meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88146	Time. From what I've talked about and other topics, and if I were to stop anyone here who talks on behalf of the club or on behalf of the club and on behalf of other topics not only strictly on the subject of which it is or primarily on the subject, I would only be doing it. You know better than I do. Since you're partly right, I won't give a warning, but please don't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We use other methods. We have breaks, or breaks, we do. I'm not going to hurt the Rules of Procedure because he was telling the truth about another subject. But please, I will not stop people when they talk about the collateral consequences of certain topics. I will not, because it is simply Parliament and in Parliament everyone has the right to use the topic, to talk about this subject but also about the collateral things that have to do with this topic. And if you tell me most of the time that I'm acting differently, then you'll see what's going to happen because it's actually happening all the time. Let's move on. Mr. Zarko Tušek will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88147	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's a more or less secretary of state in that section that really refers to the scale of today's debate, which is the adoption of a final proposal for consumer protection law, presented almost all the essential elements of this law, which we can truly say is progress in the whole context of consumer protection relations in view of our national legislation. Of course by transposing the EU directive, of course, today this theme is used on the margins for other topics that are current like inflation, gas prices and everything else that really matters to our people's living standards. But it really needs to be said not to prevent anyone from talking about it, but that this law is not the regulator of these topics and that this law does not solve these topics at all and, on the other hand, the law itself is good and progress is in a series of substances that cover the average life of every person in the context of the protection of its consumer rights. It's important to go back to the metrics, but then I would use this debate in front of the HDZ Club to highlight some points of this law that are important and that should be rediscovered in public space. This law prescribes dissuasive and proportionate and effective sanctions for traders responsible for widespread injuries or widespread infringements with a Union dimension in the context of consumer protection. It is important for me here to say that there is an important suggestion and debate on the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament through Article 149 of this Law, where the maximum penalty is still regulated. A second amount was previously planned, now it is limited to 200,000 kuna for legal persons. It is also important to mention the intensities of this law in the context of the work of the State Inspectorate which did not go to traders to immediately charge sanctions of a greater or less than or less than to act on a warning basis, so that they do not hold on to punishment in the second stage. It is important to highlight Article 157 of this Act in the context of all those proceedings which have been initiated so far or which are pending until this law is justified that all proceedings must be carried out whether under the previous law or under this current one but whether they are in and favoured by the perpetrator. An important item in this law is also the definition of a written objection that allows it to be submitted today, that the written objection is made through means of network communication, e-mail or even chat if there is a possibility of storage of time and content of the objection. What we are also talking about today is consumer protection in the context of dual product quality. It is not acceptable to claim that goods are identical to goods placed on the market in other Member States, although these goods differ significantly by item or by some other characteristics, and this is precisely why the identification of dual quality in the conduct of surveillance will include a agricultural inspection, and this is also a very important paper adopted by this law. Also, my predecessors have already highlighted one of the elements of this law which particularly touches our older population and vulnerable groups, which is to add to the blacklist of unfair business practices unrequested visits to the consumer's home. From the position of newspaper traders that goes in favour of them, this law refers to the carrying of the costs of art, so it is prescribed that the trader.../incomprehensible/... the costs of skill rather than having them fully as it has been so far and that he has the right to any compensation for paid advances unless there is any material shortage on the goods. The position of local self-government is an interesting Article 139, which further specifies where local self-government units are required to provide space for consumer consultation activities under the national consumer protection programme. I think that this segment, although whenever some laws are transferred to a local unit, we sometimes experience criticism that individuals, from the position of local self-government units, are in the context that more and more obligations and everything else are being transferred to their work and work, but on the other hand, looking at the public interest, I think that this element that local self-government units are being added to protecting themselves, protecting their citizens through the rights of consumers again is something that needs to be welcomed. In any event, if there are no longer longer longer longer elements of the law itself, we can recapture and conclude that this final proposal of the law really raises consumer rights to a whole other level, that it will in some way contribute specifically to the standard and quality of life of our people, the space for their education, the space for articulation of their rights and interest regardless of what prices traders will offer but at least offer products and conditions of sale in a way that people know what they buy, under which criteria they buy and what their rights are from that relationship, the trader and the average buyer, the citizen. In this context, the HDZ Club will, of course, support this Final Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88148	Thank you, Mr. Tušek. Now it is Mr. Darko Klasic who will speak on behalf of the club of representatives, no, so the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, excuse me. I almost read the other row and the other club, but I got right in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88149	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, from the proposed law, it is evident that after the first reading, the ministry adopted most of the proposals while they were not properly rejected in our opinion. The law is passed mainly because of compliance with EU legislation. This means that the implementation of this secondary right of the Union in our right is transposed by the provisions of European law, and in most cases we support it because it means adopting and European legislative trends in Croatian legislation, which is for sure to welcome. The main objective of the proposed provisions and the balance of positions between consumers and traders and the idea needs to be supported at the principle level because peace, co-operation and the development of social capital is impossible in a society where different rights and obligations of individual layers and groups of citizens are impossible. Thus equality and equality of chances are one of the fundamental liberal ideas in this regard, and we certainly support their further promotion that seeks to achieve this bill. No matter what concrete changes further strengthen the position of consumers, the proposed step is certainly needed in terms of the above mentioned, because the consumers were in a significantly more subordinate position than traders, and this was a very important correction. The European legislator noted the same thing, and in line with this idea, he introduced changes to the European legislation that we are transposing in our national legislation. The liberal understanding of society is never focused on the interest of a particular layer but on the opposite of the applicable, but also on an incorrect opinion, the interest of the whole community, in which any concentration of power must be avoided, either at the level of the individual states or entrepreneurs-users. What's the part, so-called. The invisible hands of the market in the liberal and democratic political system, it is also, and social capital that also does not arise on purpose, but inconceivably as an unintentional consequence of the action of the participants in the personal interest and who cooperate in the achievement of social cohesion and peace. Therefore, it is extremely important that an institutional framework or design that allows for benefits, cooperation among individuals, was generally on the market, was more concrete at the level of traders and consumers. This consists of a fundamental and unforgivable role and responsibility of the state, so we welcome this law and, according to the above, we will support this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88150	Thank you, too. Mr. Davor Dretar will speak in front of the Department of Homeland Movement Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88151	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. I'm just going to go through some articles of the Consumer Protection Act that we're discussing here today. Art. 18 on the placing of advertising messages and materials says, it is prohibited to leave advertising messages and materials in or on mailboxes and on or at the home door of the consumer if such a ban is clearly written on them. For the purpose of leaving advertising messages and materials, the trader whose products are advertised on advertising messages and materials is responsible. Here, we have to admit it sounds pretty rough. So if such a ban is clearly written on them. All of us, let's look at it from the pure reality of life, to come home and at the door, there's a whole bunch of different prospectuses that offer us a certain weekend of action or some seasonal offer in larger residential buildings, of course, the mailbox is full of it, and then there's, we should inform the person who's doing it, and we know that it's for big malls, or agencies that do it, too, agencies that do it. Of course, we can't expect one national company to walk around and beautify people, but someone else does. For large buildings, come on, sometimes there's a valuable building manager who puts a sticker, so please don't put promotional announcements or flyers in our mailboxes and then there's a law satisfied, but the fact is that it's quite ungrably written for all the people who live in private houses, in apartments, or in rural areas, where there's now, everyone if they don't want a full mailbox has to report that kind of tile, some kind of tablet. Art. 28 is talking about the connection to the distribution network. The trader providing public service through a distribution network must provide consumers with a connection to the distribution network and the use of connections and networks and the provision of services in accordance with specific regulations, concession contracts or general acts of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government in which the service is provided and, says the law, under non-discriminatory, pre-known and contracted conditions. On the side of the facts, that is, the fact that this legal part, i.e. this article, is an article. 28 perfectly OK and correctly written, but we must also remind once again that we live in the 21st century, that many of our places still have no electricity, more of them running water or sewerage, and of the gas or the quality of the Internet that we don't talk about. I am aware, of course, that this is not the job of the Consumer Protection Act, but that this Law, or this article, regulates the service only when it becomes available, but this is all I wanted to stress. What we notice, not only in Croatian but also in all markets of the world, is unfair business practices. This law defines them as unfair if they are contrary to the requirements of professional attention and if, in terms of a particular product, they have a significant impact or are likely to have an important impact on the economic behaviour of the average consumer to whom such practice is intended or to which it reaches, i.e. the average member of a particular consumer group to which this practice is directed. This can also be business practice which will likely have a significant impact on the economic behaviour of only clearly defined consumer groups, which are particularly sensitive to certain business practices or a particular product due to physical or mental defects, age or lack of thought, in a way that the trader could reasonably foresee, and therefore will be assessed from the perspective of the average member of that consumer group. Who will evaluate, how will they evaluate, and by what criteria? Paragraph 2 of this Article, the law further states, does not affect the authorisation to use the usual and legal promotional practices of exaggeration or making statements that are not expected to be taken literally. Again, one small undefined circle, so we gave it to the advertiser one space for creativity. You don't have to take everything literally. Here, just recently in the past few days we can read about the hot squat affair, so, I hope you haven't taken that literally. Deceptional actions, they're being spoken of by an art. 35 in section 2 mentions the basic characteristic of the product, such as its availability, its usefulness, but I would especially stress the risks. In fact, when we talked here a while ago about the Law on Electronic Media, there we defined the fact in that law by speaking about sports bookies or advertising in electronic and printed media, and the Law on Electronic Media has laid down as a valid provision that in the end advertising must clearly and unequivocally point to the fact that bookmakers and betting, whether in locals or fixed spaces or on the Internet, can also in many cases and indeed cause dependence on betting. And there's this law here when it comes to protecting the store clearly, so the basic feature has to mention the risks. It seems to me that we have missed both from this Law and the Law on Electronic Media in due time because it is in art. In accordance with Article 36 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Of course, the following is referred to immediately. 37th, which gives us procedures that are considered a misleading business practice. Point 20 states that within the framework of the business scratch that a prize game or promotion is to be opened without awarding the described prize or its reasonable equivalent. Recently, all of us on social networks saw a story about one prize game and a car from a prize game that was assigned to one person whose father was employed in a state-owned company, but in the end it turned out not to be true, that it was simply two people of the same last name not related to any related property. But the fact is that as a multi-year radio employee, I have participated in many prize games with us, this law has been very binding on us in such cases, but the fact is that sometimes the public wonders who gets all these awards and therefore should be more clearly defined where and how to publish information about the completed prize game and of course the winners of the same. I will remind myself once again when we talk about advertising sports bookies we see for ourselves what is happening, unfortunately or fortunately let it be a pro-pulsive Croatian economic sector, often advertise and see for yourself, you know, at the end of these ads, possibly by some inscription on the bottom of the screen for a second to two communication is a commitment under the Law on Electronic Media, and now here is the Consumer Protection Act, that the potential customer and service clearly report on the risks of using such an activity or in this case of betting that he can, and this has been proven by many studies and scientific relevant research to cause dependence on betting. I'll keep going, of course I'm talking about making a deal, Art. Before the consumer enters into a contract or is bound by an appropriate offer, the trader shall, in a clear and understandable manner, inform him of point 8 clearly, the duration of the contract, if the contract is concluded indefinitely or if it is intended to be automatically extended, of the terms of termination or termination of the contract. We are all aware of the practice especially in rural areas that quite aggressive sellers visit households that are unfortunately in the country mostly nursing and sell their products. Often this is about some telecommunications services packages, subscriptions to certain services where our older people, thanks to a certain low level of informative information forgiveness or any other literacy, sign these contracts and, of course, put themselves in a very uncomfortable market position. If I'm not mistaken, Madam Secretary of State, we've seen that we've reduced here from 30 to 14 days to a one-sided termination of the contract, I think maybe it should have left it to 30 for a consumer group like this, but let's be like that now, I think we should have left a little time for those older people at the end to report to their children that they've signed something or when the first bill comes, so when they see what they need to pay that maybe we should've given them a little more space to react in time, if not already the people who signed the contract then members of their family. Well, that's it, I'll just end up adding that in the unrequested visits of traders to the consumer's home in art. The 71st century 2 states that the consumer can highlight the additional time limit of the trader's visit, so I believe that once again, putting the obligation on all of us to stick to the door, don't put any promotional flyers on me, don't come to me in so many and so many hours that day, I think it's a little too much anyway. Well, I'm done, thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88152	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88153	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have a second reading of the Consumer Protection Act. We at the Club Center and GLAS absolutely appreciate that this is an extremely important law. Let me introduce just a few sentences. I'm out there in 2005, 2006. received a gift from a book that spoke about the spatial planning of the cities of the future, and this book was written and done absolutely professional literature by a young Australian architect. I'm with great interest, I was curious about how young people experience the cities of the future, I'm interested in not only that part of some spatial planning and architecture, I was interested in it because you cities build for some people how people predict that people will live in the future. And then in that book, she actually talked about an apartment or building houses and apartments where people provide for people everything. So, it was an assumption that you don't need about your half-life out of your apartment, living in that apartment, having a gym in your building, having the opportunity to get together and be able to watch great theatre shows, have everything you need in your building, have delivery and everything else. After reading that book my first thought was praise to God when one day if it was going to live like that, if it was absolutely foreign to me to live with that minimal kind of contact with other people, I thought when someone I was going to be, I'd be at some kind of Mirogoja or somewhere at a time when it would really be that way for cities and people to live. And look at the wonders, there's been a crown, everything that's happened, and we've lived like this for a period of time. What am I saying? We have the Consumer Protection Act, so from the beginning we have laws, so this is already the third or fourth law in line. I looked at the law a little bit and it was from 2014 with these changes before this and I was even interested in the relationship with consumers who were from the legislative aspect of 2014 which was from the legislative aspect of 2021. I'm not talking about half a century apart, I'm not talking about 15 years apart. I'm talking about a relatively short time interval. The law that was in 2014, so before now we are 2022, six, seven years ago, eight and today even different assumptions as consumers are different. So, in 2014, someone who came to the consumer in terms of activating him went differently than that goes in 2022. And that's what we're talking about. This law speaks of consumers being bombarded by a bunch of information, by a bunch of things, that consumers for the right, you have to have some kind of reasonable life experience and everything else that this information that bomb you doesn't carry every day, that you can tell things apart. So I'm looking I don't know my kids, young people. They treat that information at all differently than I do without saying how my mom is doing when she reads in the paper and when she says, Jesus tells me. I say, Mom, that's not true. He says it wouldn't be true, so I read it or I saw it somewhere. So, at all this information that comes to us and why I'm saying it together, I say it for reasons because I absolutely appreciate that this law is important, that it is important to protect all consumers and those who live at another time because they live in another time and in a different way than those who actually still live in a traditional way and that is the role of a law like this. The role of the law is to see models and ways to protect the consumer end-user. We had the opportunity to hear and see together that our individual representatives in the European Parliament, MPs, representatives of the main mandate focused on a particular topic. Otherwise, I really think it's rare who can be a representative of general practice so that he understands everything. Well, there's nothing he can't talk about, and I don't know about the impact of rainworms on the moons of change, so I don't know about the country's monetary policy and the introduction of the euro. I think you should always concentrate on things that you understand from your or your life or work or some other experience, and actually when you look at the work of European parliamentarians they always, they always focus on a pair of niche and in these niches they do. And there were several times we really had a chance to see it. If we are a member of the EU and we are, and I use this speaker every time to highlight the fact that for Croatia it is good, that it is much better to be in society of good, successful than in society of bad. The other pair of sleeves is that we're here at the bottom, but it's another pair of sleeves we use or don't use. And then there was this topic of consumer protection, because once it was seen that there are different products on the market in Germany, Poland, Croatia, and that is what we must do to ensure that we can have the same product as all EU members. And that's one of the things. And now that we're coming, so it all sounds nice together, in law it's all well done together, properly done. I kind of don't have any problem commending something. We have this one segment, I'm talking absolutely about one formal level right now. When something comes from the segment of this ministry about this policy, we always get well-prepared legal proposals. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the formal part we always get and an explanation of why one law is, we get the differences between the first and second readings, we get what's accepted in the first reading, we get what's accepted, what's not accepted and why it's not. I don't think any legal proposal that comes to our benches should be made that way. And I'm really taking the opportunity, and I probably already said that on the Committee on Economy if I didn't, then I'm gonna, I don't have a problem with that again. I love it when I get it, I like to get a well-prepared proposal. I can even disagree, I can even be against it. That's a different topic, but I like to see that you've respected it correctly, that is, that you've also thought about what the MPs from this pay phone have been saying. So we always get a good explanation between the first and second reading why and how and so it should be, but I'm going to go to the one I didn't want to run right now. What I wanted to say was how to ensure this, how to ensure that this law does not really remain a dead letter on paper, but that in reality we see the shifts that are related to this law. The way I see it, I'm going to use that five-minute speech of mys in an individual debate, and now I'm going to say a little bit about the role and importance of the inspection. So we all experience inspection as someone who walks with that stick and walks with that old paragon of some kind of block that's how it's supposed to be written. It's not the role of an inspection. Let's get back to the basic role of inspection. I repeat it and I repeat it every time. The inspection is something we don't like. Going to work as an inspector people find it hard to decide. It's one job that's not a pleasant job, but that, so I've had in my working life on a few occasions, I've been told to go. I never did, it never occurred to me to start dealing with it, but someone who's an inspector must be great with a few fields. He must be excellent in that field of administrative law to say so, but he must be excellent in the professional field of action. And there's the role of inspection, that one educational role of inspection. That when the inspector comes and finds something, he doesn't punish right away, but that he has the opportunity to fix something and fix something. So, it's not the point of punishing, it's not, I'm not experiencing the sense that finally it's the point of publishing blacklists and we're all surprised who's on those blacklists. There should be the one who deserved it. You've been, you've been, you've been, you've warned, you've given a deadline. He came another time, he was, he saw and saw, not only did he not do anything, but he smiled at you like that, and he laughed and said, "I'll go my own way." It's the role of inspection. And all these aspects are in this law. So, in addition, we have a national consumer protection plan, and I'm going to use my 5-minute speech a little for that educational part that I think we can take care of. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that this law really is and... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88154	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88155	.../ The speaker speaks in a foreign language. The directive you implement with this law allows you to strengthen the protection of citizens. You didn't take advantage of that possibility until the end. You've done your homework, but for three, instead of making an effort for an "A." Not for myself, but for the citizens. For the purpose of this Directive, among other things, the harmonisation of sanctions and sanctioning criteria, just as it is said in the directive verbally, some Member States aim to make significant failures to protect consumers. Croatia will, unfortunately, remain in this group of states because of what you have prescribed in half, and even more because of what you have not prescribed. We are most disappointed with the fact that this Law does not include consumer protection measures in the market for financial services despite the fact that the largest number of our citizens are concerned about economic interests being violated precisely by the lack of regulation of their rights in relation to financial institutions. We have spoken here many times, and we will continue to talk until this House decides to do something about it, about the situation of the persons who have been executed, who are in a long-term account blockade, and thus are excluded from the financial market, and especially about the people whose debts have been sold to law enforcement agencies. I repeat, for years this House has not found it appropriate to regulate the conduct of the claim collection agencies that operate as a sorcery, either in heaven or on earth. How does that happen? So despite our amendments, you have voted Amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act that regulates the issue of the sale of plasma banks in such a way as not to recognise the specificity of the sale of citizens' debt, i.e. consumers' debt to the business sector, i.e. legal persons. We are really surprised that this Law does not recognise the problems of such practice and about the social rights of citizens, economic rights of citizens, the promotion of interest, but also on one important issue, which is not highlighted, which is a question of protection of personal data of citizens who are sold together with credit ratings contracts. So, by the way, the demand agencies that are not, by the way, regulated either by the ZOKI or other regulations that regulate financial institutions because, imagine, the demand agencies according to our laws simply did not, come into possession of all private data of citizens, from the OIB to the home address. Croatia belongs to those EU member states that do not have regulated demand collection agencies and where citizens do not have adequate legal medicines to dispute the debt or debt amount paid to them by the agencies. According to a survey conducted in 27 EU countries, including Croatia, 22 respondents, so 22 countries, 11 licensed debt collection activities are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Romania and Sweden, and what is clear is that in almost equal numbers of Member States debt seekers operate without adequate supervision. There, these countries belong to Croatia. The study also showed that the most frequent abuses include debt-related errors with regard to the amount and validity of the debt or identity of the debtors, which we could hear earlier, followed by, quote, violent or aggressive behaviour towards the debtor. In addition, complaints also concerned the use of false or misleading information, privacy violations, debt collection harassment. At the end of 2019, a series of amendments were proposed for the EU Parliament and Council Directive of 23 April 2008 on consumer credit contracts, the most important of which were contained in the draft Report of the EU Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee. The draft report provides a number of proposals related to debt collection activities. It starts by confirming the lack of common standards at European level to regulate debt collection practices and giving several proposals to achieve a sufficient level of protection of borrowers and to address the abuse of debt collection, such as, say, ban on paying debt dues and banning aggressive, misleading or disturbing practices. Similar suggestions were made by the World Bank regarding the deterioration of consumer financial opportunities as a result of the Covida-19 pandemic. Among the direct damages caused by the Covida-19 crisis to financial consumers due to the unexpected loss of income, the financial institution cited consumer exposure, quote, aggressive debt collection practices and late payments or default fees, including confiscation of social protection income by debt seekers. The World Bank, therefore, stated in its recommendations to regulators that, I quote, increased monitoring of aggressive and unscrupulous debt collection activities is crucial in these times. ... The directives will include, among other things, interest rate limits and/or total cost of credit to the consumer, the scope of the directive itself is significantly extended and small loans providers are also covered under the 200 euro platform... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the ‘purchases now pays later’ scheme. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, all loan contracts up to 100,000 euros will now comply with the obligations under the directive. A ban on binding practices, for example. where lenders require consumers to conclude a special payment insurance policy in order to obtain a loan. A ban on unwanted credit offers and unauthorized increases in the credit limit including practices such as sending unwanted pre-authorised credit cards to consumers. Borrowers will also be obliged to give consumers in financial difficulties reasonable measures to extend loans or postpone payments, and countries must ensure that debt consulting services are available to consumers. So we have all these opportunities to regulate now. As a result, we will send an amendment prohibiting the entry into force of consumer contracts and requests to third parties without the express and written consent of the debtor where such consent cannot be an integral part of the basic contract but may be concluded at the earliest 60 days prior to the entry into force of the claim or contract. This would once and for all make it impossible to sell any debt and contract that has the character of consumer agencies, etc. The law enforcement agencies, without being in charge of it, and that he's given explicit consent to it. We also propose that the penalties paid form a fund for free legal aid in cases of collective and individual consumer disputes managed by the Ministry of Justice and distributed in accordance with the rules of public procurement for free legal aid. This is something that this directive also allows, but the bill does not contain. In this way, we would provide resources for stronger and more accessible consumer protection. We will also draw a conclusion that requires the government to harmonise all other regulations, such as: The law on mandatory relations with the prohibition of concessions and/or transfer of consumer contracts and claims to third parties without the explicit written consent of the consumer. My colleagues and colleagues from the majority and everyone else, we want to make it clear to you or you will support these amendments and this conclusion, so either you are on that side or you are on the side of lenders and interest agencies that have unfairly violent, aggressive and misleading practices towards Croatian citizens and citizens. It must be clear, either you're on the right side or you're on the side of those who are oppressing our citizens and you have a myriad of evidence about it, just open the media. Each of you will have to press that button or raise your hand, and that's where you'll settle in. So it's an appeal to your individual conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88156	Thank you. We're done with clubs, we're going to individual debates, and it's Mrs. First. Anka Dark Taritash, here you go again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88157	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. There in one of the stories Odysseus went by the island and then Kirka told him that there were sirens and that he could die and that the options were to put wax in his ears because that siren call would lead him to death. And then those who were driving him put wax in their ears, and he didn't resist them, but tied himself to a mast, so he wouldn't kill himself. I often feel exactly like this Odysseus as a consumer. This one calls the siren you have, that you have a bunch of information that you're being dragged to, in fact, that as a consumer, something you consume reminds me exactly of. How to jump it, what the system can do, what the state can do to do so much that you can be critical of what it's going to do to you and that you can be critical of that information that you're getting. It's been there since 2018. A survey was carried out which was a survey on Croatian citizens who felt that their consumer rights were compromised. And then this research showed that about 63.4% of them contacted the producer directly, 6.8 contacted the consumer protection institutions, 4% contacted the associations, and 1.7 contacted the consumer counsellor. I read it the next way. In fact, if people do not, consumers do not have information that all together in the protection of their rights can and should address. Of course, they first address those who violated his rights, violated him, and he feels threatened by the trader’s manufacturer. And logically, he goes to talk to him first and tells him look at it, but somehow I think that there we all need to step up the role of institutions together, so the role of associations, the role of counselling, the role of those where they could turn and say at all, so you're right, so what he's done to you is right, that could end up behind him. Now, what is it that a country or what can be done for me? It can be done, I always think that education is extremely important and I think that education is of course extremely important to the media. So, you can make the subject of education that citizens are aware that they actually have the right, that you have the right to ask for your money why, you sold me a bad product, go back or half product and everything else. It's important and it's out of this reading. Now, this can be done through certain associations, through certain counselling centres, and we come up with those eternal topics that, among other things, are being opened by laws like this. The issue of centralization and decentralisation. I always get the feeling when someone mentions decentralisation then like a snake's feet because there's going to be a bigger centralization. But here the role is, in fact, in certain units of local self-government, not everyone has that power and is not all understood in a way that they can and that must be clear to us. But some cities that are should really strengthen that role, so the ministry can't. I went to call that info phone once, and then I said how many times I called, and I didn't get the information, but it's irrelevant. It's important that people know they can turn to someone, it's important that people know when they turn to protect them, it's important that they know what they can get together. I fully implement this law or if we want to implement the law, then it is one part that needs to be strengthened. And you don't need to be there every time, you can't rely on the state and you can't just rely on the ministry. What you have to rely on is that decentralisation to actually be a joint action, not only of the central authorities, but to be a joint action and all the municipalities, the cities that have that power, which they can because that's how they actually protect their citizens. Protecting citizens from being deceived, being deceived by someone, is especially important, and let us not forget about the elderly. So, young people today have no problem buying shoes, returning shoes and saying sory, you sent me the wrong shoes, and people of older age when this guy comes home to his door and sells them something. That a box where there's nothing will talk to anyone. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] That's actually important. that we know who is all threatened by this law or the consequences. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88158	You have two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88159	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Dark Taritash. You've seen these percentages of consumers who have spoken to someone, unfortunately, it's worrying that 33 and something small percentages haven't spoken to anyone, it's very sad. But I would like to comment a little on certain contractual provisions that may be considered unfair, Art. 54. Point 9 of the provision stipulating that the contract will extend for a certain period of time unless the consumer declares before the end of the contract that he does not wish to extend the contract and... etc., etc. We know that there are very tough telecoms, aggressively offering multi-annual contracts in case you didn't cancel your subscription in time or the contract is a huge penalty for early termination of the contract. In these days of information when large systems have highly sophisticated computer systems, why didn't we put it in the law for traders to inform you in time that your contract would expire in 30, 60 or 90 days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88160	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88161	Thank you very much for your question. So we have a few topics that we see in real life that are topics, we see what's going on, and we absolutely have two options. One option is that we have to define it by law, and another option is that it actually has to be put in place to allow people to get information. You're great. I remember you two months ago, a friend of my mom's who's 86 years old, something just like that happened. And now my mom's asking me, so she's asking my mom who's two, three years younger than her what to do and now the two of them are wise enough to do what they're gonna do and, of course, Mom's asking me. Nothing, unfortunately nothing. But what it seems to me is that if we use the media and we have those promotional movies that are for all sorts of things that the role of the country should be to have these promotional films through different programmes through the EU, just like my own. Bjelovarčanin Goran Navojec makes one movie about something else [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] to see how to solve and where danger lurks. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88162	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Taritash, I think you've identified this problem of consumer education. Perhaps because I come from this system, but I have always said that education is something that is very important and that is really important for our students and children, but also for the general public, we need to educate how to be a responsible citizen, and then how to be a responsible consumer towards ourselves and others, or who are your rights. What I'm trying to say is actually to overpower your debate is that I see the role of the state here as a central information point where consumers will be able to inform themselves of their rights, but not in a smut bureaucratic, difficult dry manner, but as you may have said in a slightly more popular, simpler and accessible piety way, and therefore the state must be a service that will first educate its citizens about what their rights are, and then direct them to how these rights actually do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88164	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88165	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. I purposely wanted to talk these five minutes about this importance of education, the importance of the information that I purposely wanted to talk about our old population. This list of the population we're talking about all the time will show how many old people we actually have, how many people we have over 80 years old, that's sometimes any normal ones work, that are normally in everyday life in the part where they're a little disabled, they're disabled in terms of not being on the networks, that they open their computer and the Internet, but in that information, and that's why it's the role of the state. I must admit, I remember when we went into legalization we had this promotional movie that was spinning and it was a promotional movie that was three little pigs, as much as it was worth the house of those three little pigs. Those promotional movies would be important to show where the dangers lurk, what I've been since the beginning. Odysseus and Sirens where danger lurks and what to keep. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88166	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn, there you are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88167	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, In fact, since the world and the ages and when merchants were created, and when consumers were created, the fraud was somehow in itself normal as normal as it sounds abnormal. But in other times, they punished it differently so that I wouldn’t talk about it now. I consider this Consumer Protection Act to be one of the most fundamental laws of society. Society cannot be arranged if it does not protect consumers, and consumers are a component, there is, in fact, no resident of the Republic of Croatia that is not a consumer in any way. Unfair trading practices and unfair business practices are something I'd like to devote these five minutes to, and I think that might be the most important thing. Today we are at an era of a different way of life where fraud can really happen without you even knowing where you can take away a practical identity without even knowing it. And to the legal provisions that have left here in this law this very possibility that the consumer has his rights and that he can use them is something that I think is good. So is education, education, education, education. It's certainly the best solution, but I think we have another problem. The problem is, here's the meeting room where we are. We're talking about an important law. We should be the ones who talk practically to our citizens where we tell them about some of their rights that they can through this law. Unfortunately, though, this topic today is not much of an interest in parliamentary representatives, and on the other hand we have witnessed here once again the orchestrated unification of both the left and the right, and directed of course against the ruling coalition, so here it was not a libile or attack the secretary of state with topics that she did not come here to speak or to articulate them. But here they managed to get five minutes of fame, so here today the portals write mostly about it and don't write about what the Parliament was discussing at this plenary session. What seems to me to be good is that in these and unfair commercial practices and business practices, penalties are quite high. Trade chains pay a high price there, but of course the procedures are quite long, difficult and judicial and in any other way. I think the blacklist of people who cheat on Croatian citizens is necessary. Why don't they write that one trade chain cheated 100, 200, 500 citizens of the Republic of Croatia and put his name on the front page of any daily newspaper. So why would people go to that trade chain if there are people out there who want to cheat on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have heard from several debates, comparison of prices France – Germany – Croatia and there are some traders like in Croatia, only they may be a little more honest than ours, so they have this social sensitivity with their people who live so they see the way they live so they don't raise prices by 20, 50 or 100 or 200%, they have no margins of 30, 50 or 80% but they have margins that can satisfy their liquidity and their normal business. In order to protect consumers, for consumers in Croatia to be satisfied, let's say at least that limit that is normal, we need to have a partnership. We need to have a partnership with everyone that consumers come to. Without that, we won't go one step further. This legal solution gives these terms and conditions, and I think the ministry has made a good effort on this bill. But yet the law as a law won't bring anything unless we do the minimum effort we can, so here I am going to finish that education absolutely necessary. Since the early age, we have to educate our students in elementary school and so on, but we also have to have this one feeling that this Croatian state is our country and that all those who want to cheat and steal from Croatian citizens should not be part of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88168	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88169	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Here is the assumption that we have a good law, but things are happening that are not appropriate and that shouldn't happen in regulated countries. You were talking about education here, and I would also remind you that there should be prevention. So whoever did the bad thing he should answer for. When we compare us Croats who live around the world, we are respected, honorable, honest people in countries. However, here in our own country, we cannot behave in many cases as prescribed by the law. And I think there's a problem with how to behave. But you have other sides that the merchants, the man has a network of phones on one network, he's spent it, he's in debt and the other network is giving him the same service, and I think it only leads to a dead end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88170	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88171	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to get out of my exposure to feel some kind of attack on the merchants. I am also a trader and traders are not the only part related to consumers. Perhaps the bigger yes, and what you said to your colleague Simicevic is very important. Not without that mutual sensitivity of progress. We also heard from Mr Bernardic, who used this point for something else and from his colleagues, that the government had made a decision to freeze the fuel prices at 11 kuna, i.e. 11 kuna and 10 limes. And the merchants already knew in advance when they were released and when the price was free that it would be much more expensive, so we got to 12 kuna today. Therefore, we already knew what they would do in advance. So if we need tools like this for everything, then I'm afraid we're not writing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88172	- Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88173	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, esteemed colleague Ivanovic. Today we are discussing an extremely important law, the Consumer Protection Act, which means a law that concerns all of us. It is adopted to comply with EU legislation, but also to modernise and improve consumer rights protection. Our habits change, we live faster and more modern and we reach out more and more for online shopping. Do you feel that this law will protect consumers who increasingly use this way of buying? And the other very important thing, and it's connected to all of this, how important is financial literacy and how is it to help those consumers who really need it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88174	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88175	Thank you very much for asking. That's right, I'll start with this last one. Financial literacy is very, very important, it is absolutely essential that today would work in this society of digitization and information where ways and payments and orders are quite different, so a year and a half ago I took out a loan in the bank, I must have signed 30 to 40 papers, and believe me, I read one or none of these papers, in all these papers something writes, there are rights, but there are also obligations. So, on that note, it's also Mrs. Devereaux. Mrak-Taritash spoke, this education is very important, I absolutely agree with it, to agree with the EU, to the Commission, it is a tendency, so we have entered the EU, to be a more orderly society, but sometimes it is not enough just to have a law in line with the EU, but we must also have acts that are willing to do so. It's useful for society. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88176	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88177	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Surely this issue of unfair commercial practices is one of the most important issues under this law. You mentioned this and the prescribed penalties in the law and that they were prescribed as quite high, which I agree with you, but that we would really reduce the appearance of unfair commercial practices in reality to some minimum, do you think it's enough that we just prescribed those penalties and what if it wasn't implemented. By the way, I like your idea of creating a public black list of dishonest merchants, why not? Let our citizens know who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88178	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88179	Thank you, too. Yeah. The fines are quite high, if we take, 4% of the gross income of a trade chain, that's a high penalty, let's be honest. But, of course, my intensity has never been, the repressive apparatus has its advantages, but it certainly has a lot more flaws than its advantages. The penalties must exist for those who don't want to stick to the letters of the law, but what you said, I think the most important thing is that we all have our part in creating better conditions and conditions for this, and this is absolutely for me. We had blacklists of people who, I don't know, didn't pay taxes to the Croatian state, some entrepreneurs and anything else. Why not? The one, after all, sooner or later, each of us will end up in the paper for anything. And maybe we're not to blame, so I think that's good and that citizens need to know where they shouldn't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88180	- Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88181	Thank you very much. Kolega Ivanovic, the final proposal for the consumer law that we are discussing today includes or regulates the rights and protection of consumers, that consumers should be educated because, as we have concluded, new times and new ways and sales and purchases are coming, and I think that work and information and education are doing more and more of the consumer protection associations. This law also provides that units of local self-government and regional self-government must include additional space for the education of our citizens. I wonder if, how will it be accepted in the field and whether it will be done in the field as it should be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88182	Thank you. Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88183	Thank you very much. I think this law has just recognized what matters. There is no better Croatian state if we are not dispersed at all levels. Local and regional self-governments are very important segments of the Croatian state at all, therefore, that part of responsibility should be passed on to them, these are micro-communities that can be much faster articulated, after all, each of them has its own radio station where we can carry this amount of information very quickly, and then through the legal instruments that are governed by this Law, the consumer can know exactly what his rights are, but also, which are obligations and the way he can handle it. But I'm saying, we live in a global time where it's very, very hard to protect absolutely to the extreme limit of everything, but through these measures, we certainly help.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88184	Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88185	Dear colleague. Of course, we support these good practices and consumer protection in all segments, especially what a colleague is now, Mrs. Nadica said, this very education of our consumers, had, we have on Croatian TV Consumer Code and many of these shows where ordinary people especially older age who are not available this information can be able to exercise their rights, but to protect themselves. But we have a trend of depersonalization in the sale of services, products, etc., even in some public companies, especially banks, you have voice machines, you can't solve the problem, you have to,.../incomprehensible/... meaning in some public team of these, businesses, you have a problem that older people can't, not all of them can't, they don't, and the voice machine throws it aside, you're now 65 in turn, wait, so Half an hour, so how's that? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Give me that thing. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88186	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88187	Thank you very much. I agree, a few MPs pointed that out here. We have a problem, and the census has shown us that we have quite an old population that does not deal with new challenges of time. And that's why we need this -- to develop mechanisms so that we can make it easier for these people to be available. Of course, this second part of the story is a tribute to the time we live in. Today everything is robotized, digitized, there is no intimate contact between the trader – the consumer, after all, the banker – the client, but it is all over some other things. And that is why I think it is good to change the laws, to adapt to the time in which we are and that these laws ultimately have an effect on better Croatian society, along with these remarks that you yourself have made that we must find solutions to improve the status of those old people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88188	The Republic has a respected representative, Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88189	Dear Mr. Representative, you said that since the world and the century, merchants will also be the ones who will deceive their customers. That's right, yeah. But if we know that and if we all know that why in the law and why it is not more clearly established and controlled by these implementing mechanisms under that law. Which is why, you said there was a very high impediment and yes, we heard that the inspector must be the one who in some way educates and warns irregularities. But who will educate the inspector, an inspector who is far too little for such a form of business, are being complemented by associations and the associations are underfunded on the other hand. Do you consider that part neglected?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88190	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88191	Well, I don't find him negligible. I think even the law goes in favor of what you're saying. I think the inspections are doing their job. I used to work here as Mr. Dretar myself, though I had experienced him before, dealt with him. The inspections go through their part of the job, they work, but it's not easy every time. They're supposed to be therapists, they're supposed to be people to warn you. But they have people who permanently violate, who simply do not want to accept that suggestion or criticise how to improve their business. So through this law we want to raise it to a higher level and of course it doesn't go overnight. Everything here when and at this mental level we understand certain things not only consumers, but also traders think it will be much better. But either way, the platform and the starting point are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88192	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88193	Your Honor, you mentioned the blacklists, so I'll just remind you that we already had a list of taxpayers. And now that I don't ask you here, we both know what happened to them. Nothing! They remained in debt, no one charged them with it except what was required by law. The money's gone, the state's out of money and nobody's out. In order not to happen similarly, and with these black lists, I think there should be real punishments, adequate penalties, and those penalties that are charged in a slightly different way, and not after that, have the right to appeal, and then go to court, and then the judge has some right to reduce that sentence, so reduce it, so feel sorry for yourself. At the end of that sentence that should be 100,000 kunas turns out to be fines several thousand kunas or almost nothing. And as for blacklists, it could easily happen to us because we're very resourceful to have a blacklist, a little darker list, a little blacker list and the blackest list. So we're hardly gonna do anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88194	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88195	I agree. We've had enough of the law on unfair commercial practices. We've seen even isolated examples of cases where court proceedings take an awful long, year, two, three. At the end of that original sentence comes to some punishment that won't teach him an absolute sense. As much as he was willing to pay her because his profits were much, much bigger than the fine he had paid. But we have to endure the process, we have to look for and improve how every law-making process here in the Croatian Parliament will be at least one percent, five percent, ten percent, twenty percent, 50 percent to make Croatia a better, more orderly society in which each citizen will have his rights and also obligations, especially when it comes to consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88196	Thank you. Now she will speak to a respected representative of Marina Opačak-Bilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88197	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we have heard today various examples of violations of consumer rights and indeed the topic is broad. But I want to discuss this law here today, and I want to update a subject that I personally think belongs to a group of serious consumer rights violations because I can also say one minorization of human dignity. In fact, I want to talk about suspending the supply of public services that fall within the basic needs of life. It's electrical energy, it's electricity, water and gas. In the Republic of Croatia, it is common practice to exclude from, the usual practice of exclusion from supplying these services even though such a relationship to consumers has no legal basis whatsoever, it is contrary to the law and it is against the constitution. So I want to talk about this a little bit more today so that here, as well as the Ministry of Consumer Protection, we can finally react and give you clearer guidelines, to introduce penalties, and to finally begin to monitor these examples of unfair, unworthy, unconstitutional and illegal practices that are being exercised over our citizens. In fact, although the law says that I will quote: “Whoever shuts down or interferes with the operation of a public use device for water, heat, gas, electrical or other energy or electronic communications equipment and thus causes disturbances in the regular life of the population to be punished by a prison of 6 months to 5 years”. The end of the law. So here is the fact that prison punishment is still all the companies involved in supplying as a public service have in their general rules and acts regulated cases where they can exclude the consumer or when they can suspend the delivery, and we also have the example that the Constitutional Court ruled in 2007 that such internal rules are not in accordance with the law, neither with the Constitution, nor that they can be applied, or that the consumer must not be excluded from supply, but that the invoices must be settled by some other means of judicial procedure. However, this decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply in practice and we know that in Croatia it is common to see every few of those HEPs up on the tree that walk and rule out regularly. And what is worst after the exclusion of consumers must again have the cost of paying for reintegration. Indeed, this is an eclectic example of a consumer's rights violation. We all know, of course, that obligations must be met, but as I said, there are other ways to collect claims by court. And since we know that here are one fifth of our citizens, nearly 700,000 people living at risk of poverty and living at risk of social exclusion. It may also be necessary to consider a way of agreeing, for example, between users and HEP, plumbing or anything else or similar services that I think are personally more acceptable than this inhumane act of disfellowshipping the network. I therefore expect, finally, that the State Secretary will explain to us a little more what these steps are to strengthen consumer protection on this matter, or you will continue to observe this practice of clear violation and of the law and of the Constitution. And here I call upon you to activate your punishment mechanisms to eradicate this practice, because any debt cannot have an impact on the fact that the final buyer under the contract belongs to the right to supply electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88198	The Republic has a respected representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88199	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think you've touched the right subject. So we're talking about energy poverty. You were talking about electricity as a human right, or something you can't do without these days. We can talk about water in the same way as human rights that some EU countries even have as a constitutional category. But what saddens me is that we have often criticised one of our neighbouring states of Bosnia and Herzegovina for four years after the Constitutional Court ruling, and we do the same thing in Croatia. So, we don't implement the Constitutional Court decisions, we go deaf to them, we systematically ignore them, and who eventually suffers? As the Croats suffer in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatians, or consumers, suffer in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88200	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88201	Yes, you're right, unfortunately, this is not the only example where the law and the constitution are not respected, and especially when it clearly states a provision that must be in force. As far as other EU countries are concerned, I have recently read that if they had this case of mass and continuous and so relaxed and simple exclusion of these basic needs of life, it would have been chaos. Croatia which is equally a member is happening and no one is doing anything, we all turn our backs on it and of course you said both electricity and water are basic life needs. So we're all hooked up to that phone today, we can't do it without power, light bulbs. I don't think I'm talking. We have examples, it's recently one mother, it's off water. I'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88202	Replicated representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88203	Dear colleagues, I'm sure you've encouraged the right subject where there's not much to talk about. The problem is that this topic is actually being touched by more laws and we will find it difficult to resolve this through the consumer protection law alone definitely. But that we should take care of those citizens of ours definitely yes. The problem arises among other things when it comes to court. If that consumer loses the court, how much is the court's costs? He's left with the expenses he's done before, and then again, he's having trouble with his new involvement because he can't settle those costs. So we're spinning in one circle. If such cases occur, local self-government, or local community, units of local self-government that then meet such people because they are often social problems, and then settle some of the costs. As long as that's the way it's gonna go down, that's the question. Perhaps it would be better to prevent it somehow, not to come to this, not to have those exclusions, but to have the community react earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88204	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88205	I'll start at the end. You said it right, let's get to the point where they prevent these exclusions. At first you said that only this question is being touched by more laws, so let's touch all the laws. This is one huge problem that is affecting a large number of our people. So 700,000 people live at risk of poverty and probably out of those 700, 400 every month rags to pay that bill. So let's change everything, let's go from the beginning. Is that our country's problem? So our problem is power, water and gas outages. Our problem is the extra costs of the courts. Let's start from the beginning, make a strategy and come up with a final solution. And what you said to the extra costs yourself if someone came to court, I believe that given this law, the article I read that someone could not lose such a court in case they went to court, that all the facts were in his favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88206	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88207	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. We had a set of laws yesterday that was related to certain social problems. We also mentioned energy poverty there, and we don't need to be exactly what we're very interested in all that we're aware of the fact that it's all gathered up, that we're aware of the fact that with April 1, it's going to collect gas, that we're aware of the fact that it's going to collect electricity, that it's gas derivatives, and that it's what the domino effect is, when it gathers it goes all together. I often feel like we're sitting still and following what's going on. We are also aware of the facts that you have stated in your debate that people are deprived of the right to electricity, that they have been denied the right to water, but it's sort of different, not by closing but somehow different. Is it just this law or is it some kind of set of laws, let's run something and it's on the trail of what you were saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88208	The answer of the esteemed representative, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88209	Thank you very much. That's what I said, let's get something started. Here's my colleague Pavic, I said, "Is it necessary to change the set of laws, and I really expect here, and I want this way to update this topic and to finally start to solve it step by step in order to come to a final solution?" You said we were all sitting around watching, not all of us. I've had all of them since I was nine months old, and the whole opposition's almost buzzing about the crowds. Some people who sit and keep their mouth shut are on the other side. So we're really responding, we're appealing in time, but here's what's going to happen. Only the collection hasn't yet reached the household, but we have an example here the gas for the entrepreneurs has increased enormously. I recently saw in some kind of commentary in entrepreneurship groups that 100, 200 or even 300 percent of gas bills are bigger. I mean, here's what we all need to do, deal with this, and finally come to a final solution. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88210	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative, Željko Pavić, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88211	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. And by reading the proposed law, and by listening to the debates of parliamentary representatives, I believe that most of us have come to the same conclusion, which is that this law is a step forward in consumer protection and that consumers and other consumer protection laws will not be overly regretted and will not have any greater objections, primarily because the law has tried to embrace and regulate most of the relationships in today's consumer and mediator relationship, i.e. consumers and sellers, which is commendable. That's what we heard from the secretary of state. There have been specific efforts, of course, not all that has been achieved, but I think that in the next period with new market developments, with new relations between consumers and suppliers, i.e. consumers and intermediaries, consumers and sellers, we will regulate it with amendments and additions to that law. There are some areas that will have to be further regulated or amended by amendments to the laws or regulations adopted by the minister, although the law is already intended to pass, if I am not mistaken, 6 regulations. And what I have to point out is that there is a part that regulates consumer information and education because the Ministry of Consumer Protection, together with the Ministry of Education, commits itself to launching education projects related to consumer protection, but the costs remain at the associations or JLS, and we know what the situation in JLS is with money. That money doesn't exactly exist. And I think there might be more problems. Of course, I don't want to talk about the fees of people who are doing those trainings and everything else because right now it's groundless. In addition, I must mention the problems associated with inspection surveillance, especially for Internet trade. When major problems arise, the law regulates how these problems will be solved, in fact it is intended to shut down access or ban access to that platform, so it will prevent consumers from getting to that platform and further giving them headaches. However, what happens if problems arise that are not so expressed are related to individual customers and when IT expertise will be needed. It is certainly certain that IT experts of these calibers who could perform such expertise will not be obtained in inspection services, given that we know who they are, which are salaries in these services, and then we are left to rely eventually on experts who are currently in the MUP or in some of our other institutions to engage or engage companies that will then charge for it in some other way. Namely, how to react when a woman orders you a dress no. 36, and the age of a dress that was actually for a doll that is 36 centimeters long, who to complain to, how to do it not and how to prove what you ordered? It needs someone who's professional in spending and proving that you ordered one and that you got another. I've already turned my attention to that advertising thing. Here it has been said that Europe is currently working on these regulations, and I believe that after these regulations are adopted in Europe or the directives are adopted in Europe, that we too will implement them in our law. And what I would pray for, which I once prayed for, I don't know if it was you or someone else I have to draw attention to the problem that comes to us when we read and analyze the law, especially this law that has a connection with a lot of other laws. It's hard for us to recognize whether something is regulated or not regulated or not regulated in some other law, and then we come here for a pay phone, after all, and in replicas, we talk about things that are regulated in some other law because it's not mentioned here that it's regulated somewhere, and then we actually put you and ourselves in an awkward situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88212	The Honorable representative of Dretar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88213	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Pavić, to repeat this part of personal data management to the Croatian public just once more. We all know whenever we come to some mall's cashier's account, they're asking us if you have our card. When we listed the access card for a certain so-called. We have listed certain personal data on this access card, and then later by purchasing this user's or card value we make savings, we can mostly say we have some benefits, and since we know that there is no free lunch in the capitalism and market economy that we actually give to someone here. So what happens when we give our personal data to a shopping mall, what happens to them later? Give us a little more explaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88214	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88215	All those who gave their data at a shopping mall actually gave their personal data to a database that should be registered at the Personal Data Protection Agency. Whether all the centres that have these cards and collect personal data have reported that database to AZTN or not is not that difficult to know. And after what's next? The following is that when a discount is made, and they recognize that you bought a certain kind of goods you will get at home in your caslic if the house is covered with posters I don't want to receive catalogues, you will get information that you can buy at privileged prices. And that's a minor problem. The bigger problem is that they're all sharing that data. And after that, these data are not only available to that shopping mall, but also to many others you never wanted to be available to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88216	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88217	Dear Mr. Pavić, in your presentation, you mentioned the role of inspection supervision and again as part of the control mechanism, I repeat whether you really think that the existing inspection service that has knowledge from the section of its work can deal with this upcoming newspaper that brings different ways of doing business. So, above all, the information and legal knowledge they need to do their job in order to be effective. I repeat, do you think it's really good enough with this law this area is regulated?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88218	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88219	So I think this law regulates what could be regulated right now because I've already mentioned that in inspections we're going to have a hard time hiring IT experts who will be able to actually do that expertise. Inspectors will certainly be familiar with individual segments of action in the IT section, but whether it will be enough for online business is a clear doubt. That is why I have also pointed out that we will most likely need to use experts from other of our institutions who work in some state institutions or in ministries that really have these knowledge given that they are doing different searches, investigations and they will certainly be able to determine that. What remains as another problem is when the inspection finds that there is a problem whether there will be adequate punishment and what I have already asked Mr. Ivanovic if this punishment will indeed be charged or later in court will be reduced to a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88220	Dear Representative Hajdukovic Please turn off. [[Barbara.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88221	Thank you very much. My colleague was encouraged by your debate, in fact, to another observation, perhaps to point out some things once again, and that's the law I'll agree with you in many aspects and bring some improvements and it's just, just someone malicious will say that nothing is right. On the other hand, there is nothing in some, and there has been criticism or criticism, the debate of the proposal on both this side of the assembly and on the other side of the assembly that some things should still be incorporated into the law, that they should be better regulated and ultimately ensured that the law is enforceable because most of our regulations are very good in theory, in practice what you were talking about is actually the most often falling. So, if it is really done properly, if these penalties are charged, whether they have received the effect they should have had and in the end whether they have protected our citizens in the sense that it is the legislator or in this case we have been replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88222	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88223	Unfortunately, we have to start with that assumption that a colleague who was here at the pay phone before me has already mentioned, which is that since when is the store to have fraud. And that's the first step we unfortunately have to go and deal with all the time. In order to prevent this, we must have an adequate inspection service and, of course, a service that will, when it finds fault and when it is found to have occurred, that there has been a malfunction to say that it will then really punish that person regardless of the connections and acquaintances that exist. Even more so, it would be good if even in some other laws it might be regulated that those who are calling for connections and acquaintances to register automatically, as is the case today in the Customs Administration, I don't know if you know it, but in the Customs Administration, customs officials have an obligation that anyone who is invited to know someone from the world of politics, I have no idea what economy could possibly help him. to automatically report it... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88224	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88225	Thank you very much, Vice President. You stated in your debate that consumers are not sufficiently protected from products, the quality of products they get, or not even quality, you said what if you order a dress number 36 gets such a little something that is not number 36, so I think that so far consumers have been protected enough, but you every product that doesn't suit you within a certain period can be returned. I think it's good in this law that extends the criteria by which traders can be sanctioned because of false reviews and because of some incorrect behaviour of traders, and that's an improvement in the existing law, so tell me, be clear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88226	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88227	I see you're alluding that this is where I tried to blacken someone or reduce the value of the law. I didn't. These are really phenomena that are happening. In particular, here's a colleague who ordered a dress 36, got a dress 36, really nice-looking and in nature, but it's for a doll that's 36 centimeters long. So she certainly didn't order it... Yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And now we come to what you said should be returned. And she gets it back. But what happens to the money? The money's coming back, but there's fees between banks la, la, la, la, la, so it's paid after that and what, I'm telling you what's going on and then from that money you paid you get just one piece. Is that in our best interest? It's not. So we need to do it all the way that if we get what we don't want to get and the money we paid regardless of the cost of cash transactions between banks and between the platform or between the buyer's pardon supplier and the buyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88228	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Budinski will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88229	President of the Assembly, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for the adoption of the new Consumer Protection Act is primarily the adoption of Directive 2019/2161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019. on better enforcement and modernisation of the Union on consumer protection. In the context of the comprehensive verification and conformity of both consumer and market law implemented by the European Commission in 2016 and 2017, the European Commission was invited to submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council. As part of the compliance and effectiveness programme, it has been concluded that the effectiveness of EU consumer law is at risk because of the lack of awareness of traders and consumers. In order to overcome those difficulties, and to ensure uniform application of law among Member States 7. January 2020 Directive 2019/2161 of the European Parliament and of the Council has entered into force pursuant to Article 2 of Directive 2019/2161. 7th century 1st of the Member State until 28 November 2021. adopt and publish the measures necessary to comply with the subject-matter of the Directive and apply from 28. May 2022. One of the most important amendments provided for in the Directive concerns the regulation of effective proportionate and dissuasive fines for traders responsible for widespread injuries. The sanctions will be determined in view of the annual turnover of the trader and the maximum penalty would be at least 4% of the annual turnover of the trader. New rules relating to the requirement of transparency are laid down for the information of the person with which the contract is concluded and on the responsibilities of such persons and of Internet intermediaries. In view of the continued development of digital tools, the adaptation of the relevant definitions has been made to include the digital segment of contract conclusion in application. The Directive provides for the possibility of regulating unfair business practices, such as dual quality goods, in order to ensure the highest level of consumer protection when buying goods and services. Unfair business practice is also considered to place goods on the market of the Republic of Croatia as being identical to goods on the markets of other Member States, although in reality it is significantly different by composition and characteristics. Furthermore, this law regulates the obligations of a trader who organises events to sell or promote products, as well as the unrequested visit to home consumers. Such practices are often directed at older people or other vulnerable consumer groups. It has also made appropriate amendments and additions to the provisions which determine, regulate the conclusion of contracts at a distance and outside the business space. This final bill changes the way in which the National Consumer Protection Programme is adopted in such a way as to prescribe the adoption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Consumer Protection, not HS, but for the technical reason of the obligation to implement the national plan shall be placed in the power of the ministry and not in the power of the Government. Consumer protection organisations shall carry out consultation, information and training activities in the area of consumer rights, and the competences of a member may be established, for example, by a résumé, working experience and expertise in the performance of consulting, information and training activities of consumers. The power to supervise the applicable law was conferred on market inspectors and authorities of the State Administration responsible for inspection affairs, the CNB, and the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities whose work has not been changed. The final draft law also provides for the competence of the Croatian Agency for the Control of Financial Services of HANFA, as well as agricultural inspections on the conduct of controls relating to the issue of dual-quality food. This bill also provides for infringement provisions, as well as criteria applicable to decision-making and type and penalty measures and which are... Infringement committed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, this final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act will achieve a high level of consumer protection, a better functioning of the internal market, a higher value in the economy and a higher level of consumer and trader safety. In addition to the timely transposition of the Directive into the relevant provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, the Republic of Croatia will comply with its obligations as a Member State of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88230	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and will finally speak to the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88231	The President-in-Office, the State Secretary, the esteemed present, so today's Consumer Protection Act, two years later, finally brings about good changes in the wake of what they are from these directives, which Europe has simply sent us on a mission, or in a guideline to do so. A good lead on this is, of course, what has now been voted in the European Parliament these days, and that is so as not to abuse ads in terms of personal data collection, so that it is something that is again more than what we have regulated here today by this law. So we're coughing for what we might do again. The second part, and as has often been laid out today, is control mechanisms, so control mechanisms that are largely not sufficient, no, are not on the trail of our law or the time in which we live, so it is insufficient for the inspector and is insufficient, are insufficient for consumer protection associations that again go to the burden of municipalities and cities, instead of taking care of at least the salary of one of them so that those services that are more than 20,000 per year are simply well-covered. So, that part is not good enough at all at all, and just as we are all late in regulation of all consumer rights and regulation of what should have been regulated long ago, in a way that we prescribe on the one hand dragon penalties that are good to be prescribed, we issue a black list of those who break those rules, but on the other hand we improperly punish those at least, so the relationship between a large employer and a small employer, so one craftsman is unfairly in terms of punishing this law. So since you have in Croatia very often that a craftsman has himself as a director, so he will pay a double penalty if he is punished and for this very reason for the protection of small merchants, we little ones have sent an amendment to this proposal, or a law in which the lowest penalty is actually charged to the same person we propose to reduce from the present 10 to 5,000 kuna, which is just as much. And the meaning of this law is, despite the fact that on the one hand, the Dragon Penalty is prevented and that it is well explained in the law that it is the inspector who is somehow helping the trader not to repeat, repeat, or even cheat on his buyer at times. As consumers are all and can use this legislation for collateral those not covered by this law, I would specifically cite here measures from short to medium-term ones that should be covered and not covered. And this is under one influence on energy prices in the reduction of excise duties and the reduction of VAT on gas. This is the first thing we have to do because, as we have already proposed, the government can immediately reduce the amount of excise duty on diesel fuels in the amount of 50 limes, as well as gasoline in the amount of kuna and 10. This reduction would make the average container cheaper on average from 25 to 55 kuna. Secondly, consider measures on one-time cash transfers to social groups and poor citizens. Such a measure would be primarily directed towards the establishment of an energy voucher, which is, of course, in terms of and the purpose of making it easier for citizens and families in this time ahead to fill their consumer baskets. Third, reduction of VAT on vegetables and oil. Fourth, the reform of the final product market. Fifth, Reform how agricultural policies and energy policy reforms. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88232	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88233	Dear Chairman, secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here I am again after three minutes, four, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we must pay particular attention to this law or when we are going to do changes and additions to the exceptions to which we have turned our attention here. This is where our colleague Opačak Bilić drew attention to the problems that exist, namely, not even the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected. Some suppliers work on their own, I think it should be regulated differently and that this country should intervene differently. As for the inspection services that I was talking about earlier, I hope that this law, as well as the law we spoke about a few months ago, will encourage better staffing of the inspection service, and I am particularly talking about this part that is related to IT, since I think that the other areas are covered and that regular inspectors go to seminars, get regular schooling and get information about how they should and when they need to intervene. Moreover, there are extremely important penalties and what I mentioned earlier whether this punishment after the appeal will be so reduced that it will certainly be ridiculous. If that's how it's going to happen in courts if the judiciary responds to inspection findings, then really everything, all that effort doesn't make sense. Internal inspection acts are also important. The inspection service, or the head, may prescribe internal acts as to how the inspection will operate or how it will operate, as regards their principles, of course, in accordance with the law, but that the principles he has laid down in accordance with.../incomprehensible/... in accordance with government decisions, or in agreement with the Government. What I said earlier, I don't think there are any big complaints about consumers and consumer associations, but the problems we've brought to our attention, which we've been paying attention to a few of our colleagues and colleagues, I think we should take into consideration and that those amendments that are addressed by the opposition clubs should be seriously considered, and even most of them accepted, there are some that we've read that may be a little pretentious, but most of them should be accepted and after that I think most of them will be in favour of such a law. If the law, if the amendments we believe should be passed, will be passed, our club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88234	And now, on behalf of the promoter, he will finally speak to the esteemed Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, let me finally just point out one fact regarding the entry into force of this law that matters. As the debate highlights that we are late with the adoption of the rules, the Directive shall apply from 28. May this year, therefore, the Law will be on time and will be applied on time, i.e. the time of adjustment for economic operators, as well as for consumers, in order to properly apply the Directive in the Croatian legal system. And finally, I would also like to thank the motionor for today's debate and for all the proposals that have been made, and here I hope this House will support the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88236	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Before we move to the next point, one notice so you can plan your obligations. We will continue the session next week on Tuesday, May 25th, so please, give us a little in the hall, take us to your colleagues as well, we start working on Tuesday, not Wednesday, as is most often. And now we are going to the next point, which is: - The proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU for 2022; the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Secretary of State Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. Allow me to present to you a Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2022, in accordance with the obligation to take legal advantage of the Croatian legislation, and for this year, a Programme of the Government for the takeover and implementation of the acquis for the EU for 2022, which forms an integral part of the legislative harmonisation plan. This Plan represents full and timely parliamentary representatives in the government's legislative activities during the year 2022, which stems from EU membership, i.e. our obligation to take European legal provisions into our legislation. For the proper transposition of the application and implementation of EU law, Member States are primarily responsible, the uniform application of EU law in all Member States is crucial for the success of the EU, which is precisely based on the rule of law and relys on the right to ensure the implementation of its policies and priorities in the Member States. Croatia, changing its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States, ensures that European law is applied as effectively as possible in favour of its citizens, but also as an equal partner with other Member States, Croatia actively participates in the preparation and development of EU legislation itself through its representatives. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted for this year a one-year programme document that represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring EU legislation. The 2022 plan contains a total of 46 laws to be adopted, primarily new EU rules where Croatia is changing its legislation by actively monitoring the development of legal gains from the competent authorities of the state administration. The harmonisation of national legislation with EU rules is implemented in such a way that the content of the Directives is taken over in national legislation in a way that allows for the achievement of the objective of a directive, while Croatia can, in accordance with its own legal system, choose the way and form that will best be achieved. On the other hand, with regard to the regulations and decisions of the EU which are directly applicable, it is our obligation to ensure all conditions for their effective implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this document, Croatia confirms the effective functioning and promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. We can say that an effective and effective enforcement system has been established to ensure timely application, implementation and enforcement of EU rules. Given the key role of HS in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, the HS is proposed to adopt this Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for the current 2022. I thank you for your attention and I am available for questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88275	Thank you very much. Here's two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88276	Thank you. ... Vice President of the Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] In fact, I only have one question, so the Law on the Euro, that no law will need to be brought into line with the EU acquis since it is not stated. We're introducing the euro, aren't we? That no law should be harmonised with the introduction of the euro as a legal gain since it is not mentioned here? I'm just asking. There's nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88277	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88278	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Two laws need to be changed. The Ministry of Finance is the holder of these amendments. I can say more specifically which laws are only to find in the documents. So, the Ministry of Finance, just one moment. So it's about the law, so in the coordination plan there are two laws like I said. One is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and another is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. The bearer of both is the Ministry of Finance and these laws will be in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88279	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88280	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Maybe you can continue the answer in response to my replica, and the replica goes in one other direction. Of course this is one procedural operating document that we're going to bring, I have no objection to that. What I would like only more to practice wherever possible in the work of the Government in the EU body is that the Committee on European Affairs then and other resolution committees of those positions get much earlier, so that we can make comments, possibly suggestions before the meetings themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88281	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88282	We accept. We'll try to get acquainted with all the changes as soon as possible. In accordance with this plan you will get all the necessary information and in time you will be able to manifest yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88283	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88284	My question is why is it not proposed to amend the Law on the Croatian National Bank if we introduce the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88285	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88286	Anything concerning the euro will therefore be contained in these two amendments to the laws that the Ministry of Finance holds. It will be analysed, of course, during the year, to analyse the situation and possibly the need to amend other acts. At this moment, however, the only thing we can see is that these two laws on the introduction of the euro will need to be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88287	Thank you very much. You can go to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President-in-Office of European Affairs Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88288	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the 30th session held on 18 January this year, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU acquis for 2022, which was submitted by the government to the president of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 30 December last year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis for the EU for 2022. Discussed as a parent working body. The Head of the Management of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, introduces that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes every year a legislative harmonisation plan as a basis for the takeover of the European acquis into Croatian legislation. She pointed out that the proposal for a harmonisation plan serves as a means of legislative planning, the taking over of a new EU acquis where the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States and in line with the deadlines for taking over as set out in EU legislative acts. Given the above-mentioned proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan, it is an effective instrument for monitoring and assuming European law through a process established during the accession process of the Republic of Croatia. The legislative harmonisation plan is part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the takeover and implementation of the acquis, and its adoption establishes effective action in the conditions of EU membership as well as the promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. After the debate was held, the Committee on European Affairs unanimously proposed, with 9 votes to decide on the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88289	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate, so please remain immediately a respected representative of Hajdukovic because he will speak first on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88290	Thank you once again, Vice President, in a slightly different role, but I would like to repeat perhaps some more brief specifics that may make things clearer for colleagues and colleagues who are not so directed. In fact, the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU was actually a basic prerequisite for EU membership, so the topic was far more representative in the pre-accession period than it is now. However, harmonisation of legislation is a permanent obligation for each EU Member State, given that European legislation is constantly changing and developing and, of course, new legislation or plans are being adopted. The legislative harmonisation plan is an instrument that Croatia has kept from the pre-accession period, which is a basic tool for monitoring and planning, the takeover of European law into the Croatian legal system. In EU membership, the legislative harmonisation process mainly refers to harmonisation with directives, to European legislative acts that prescribe the objectives that Member States need to achieve or how to achieve these objectives, as a rule, leave to Member States. Other legislative acts, regulations and decisions shall be directly applicable in the Member States and shall not be allowed to be transposed into the national legal system, i.e. only the adoption of legal and sublegal acts establishing the conditions for the implementation of the Regulations and decisions that I have mentioned. EU law is not governed by national law, EU law is subject to national law, and its implementation is followed by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Committee on European Affairs is also the parent body in the process of adopting a legislative harmonisation plan as well as for monitoring the overall process. The role of the committee in this regard has changed significantly in relation to the Committee on European Integration, which we had during the pre-accession period in which harmonisation of legislation was actually a primary task. In the pre-accession process, Croatia had an obligation to adopt European legislation without being able to influence it. As a Member State, Croatia is now equally involved in the adoption of a new European acquis, and this is precisely the main task of the European Affairs Committee. I am very pleased, and I also discussed this during last year's coordination plan that in this meeting, MPs and working bodies show an increased interest in European affairs that I attach first and foremost to the fact that European affairs are no longer a matter of foreign policy, but it is a matter of internal affairs concerning all the working bodies in their work cycle and that we have finally come to realize that as a state and then as a national parliament we can participate in the adoption of acts and at EU level which will then be transposed into our legislation. I would nevertheless take this opportunity to point out that only harmonisation of legislation remains a one-way process. At the moment when some of the laws taking over the European acquis, Croatia can no longer affect the content of European acts whose provisions are taken over into our legal system. However, in the phase of the adoption of these European acts, the Croatian Parliament actively participates through the Committee on European Affairs, which, in cooperation with the working authorities, examines Croatian views on European documents and empowers the government to represent these positions. As the plan for harmonisation of legislation is a basic instrument for the taking over of European acquis, so the work programme for considering the position of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Committee on European Affairs, is a fundamental element and instrument for participating in the adoption of a new European acquis. I would therefore also ask all the working bodies and all MPs individually to participate in the process of adopting the 2022 work programme and to continue to consider the views that we, as the Committee on European Affairs, are forwarding. Today we have a plan, a proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis for 2022, a document that provides for the adoption of a total of 46 laws that Croatian legislation is in line with European legislation. This is 10 legislative proposals less than in last year's plan, and more than half of the laws, or even 26, are foreseen for adoption in the first quarter, which means that in the first half of the year, we will have a lot of work to do with European, European rights. Respecting the fact that a plan for harmonisation can be changed and adapted over the year, however, it should be said that its usefulness as a basic tool for monitoring and planning the takeover of a European acquis depends on its transparency. In this respect, from the perspective of the Committee on European Affairs as a working body responsible for monitoring the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis with the EU, it is problematic that, after the adoption of the legislative harmonisation plan, we do not have insight into its subsequent adaptations. Therefore, I would ask the ministry to be a little bit more up-to-date and more transparent in that sense that we are not trying to complicate life, but rather, we want to be as involved as possible on our part and in accordance with our legal options. Also, given that, under the conditions of Croatia's EU membership, the legislation harmonisation system established during the pre-accession period contained its weakness, and this is the possibility for the legislator to take advantage of the harmonisation of the law as an excuse for the adoption of individual laws in an emergency procedure. It's something that's not good practice and we shouldn't use it. Of course, some laws must be harmonised and necessary, but often some articles are drawn under that European part, and they are not necessarily part of that harmonisation. Given that the Committee on European Affairs no longer decides in the coincidences of certain legislative proposals with the acquis of the EU, and what was the obligation of our threat, that is, the Committee on European Integrations of such possible abuse of the legislative harmonisation process is more difficult to see. It should certainly be pointed out that significant progress has been made in this respect in relation to the pre-accession period, and the proposals for legislation to be taken over by the European acquis are now rarely adopted in an emergency procedure, which used to be a rule. So it's certainly something to greet because it doesn't require all emergency procedures and it's good to discuss it in two readings. However, regardless of this good practice, I believe that 8.5 years after Croatia's entry into the EU, there have been conditions for certain future business changes and additions to abolishing the presummation of the emergency procedure when harmonisation of legislation is requested by the applicant as set out in Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility of such a procedure and joining it or to go into an emergency procedure, but the P.Z. mark, P.Z.EU itself, does not necessarily mean an emergency procedure. As I have pointed out earlier, it is understandable that the coordination plan is changing and adapting over the year, as well as that harmonisation of legislation sometimes requires the urgency of the procedure, but I will once again call on the Ministry for better communication with the Assembly when these changes are particularly relevant, given that harmonisation of legislation is a process that is not dependent on the day-to-day political opportunities but on the deadlines set by the EU. In any case, the Social Democrats Club will support this proposal of harmonisation in the hope that, indeed, in dialogue with the ministry, we will raise the standards even further, perhaps even to what the law or what the ministry does not oblige us to say, but it would be a good practice precisely because of the increased interest of representatives and advocates of European jobs to make some practice and advances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88291	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88292	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, to discuss the plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis on 46 laws, draft laws which are divided into quarters. Now let's talk about the laws that are here, so I've already tried to ask the secretary of state what's with the euro, whether we're just two laws or there'll be more laws. Okay, maybe only the Euro Law was listed, but when institutions, and there's actually the CNB showing what to call it, I won't say contempt, maybe opposition to citizens, so it's very difficult for an ambitious plan to be achieved within the time limit. We can ask a question here and each of you has the right to answer, so the classic question, the euro yes or no, is Croatia ready, is Croatia not ready because we can go into different theoretical thinking, so I have no idea, let's say from arrivals to some Croatian macroeconists, Deskar or Šonje who advocate it, whether we are the same currency area or not the same currency area. As a matter of fact, whether the euro will be the Croatian currency as well as the European currency, but the key question is whether the institutions that are infected with the really bad HDZ staff policy actually have confidence that such a complex national project as euro management is implemented within the deadlines set. And what concerns us most here from the SDP is actually regular number 19, which is the Labour Act that is ambitiously announced in the first quarter sessions, and we know that there is no minimum consensus between the unions, so between associations and employers and the government, that there are no suggestions of those stakeholders of this society, and also that the Labour Act, as far as we have seen, does not answer any key questions, which is the platform work, which is, for example, the one that is reportedly mentioned in the bill, and every day, so there is still a growing number of platform workers in Croatia or application workers, and while some countries, France, for example, Spain, have tried to resolve it through their working legislation, so in Croatia, they are still on the sidelines and very sensitive social groups. The second part that also doesn't give a good answer. So it's your work remotely. So unfortunately, Croatian employers, let's not all say, most Croatian employers are still not regulated or internally controlled, so more and more people, under quotes, are getting them to work from home, and neither are they dealing with the question of ordinary ones, fundamental costs of electricity, gas, water, the Internet, let alone editing work space, and that is unfortunately a painful truth to you. And knowing therefore the government and the burden of the whole system with the non-functioning of institutions, knowing Mr. Plenkovic's unpreparedness to a consensus, and the Labour Law should be a broad state consensus because it is also a good demographic measure, we express a great skeptic, we express one great concern that this Labour Act will not be passed in the right quarter, so because it is not well communicated with interested stakeholders. And I'm not going to do this again with my colleague Hajdukovic. So he gave a good analysis, which we are, where we are, where we push it, so that's what, I'd call it business as usual. Thank you very much. And to you, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88293	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Marijana Balic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88294	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So before us today, the proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2022, which, as we have heard from the opening presentation of the State Secretary, is also an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 programme paper, which is therefore an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the acquisition of EU acquis, which was produced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 9th year in a row, and then adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 30 December 2021, which is, in accordance with the current dynamics of the process of harmonising legislation with the acquis of the EU, the Republic of Croatia therefore has an obligation to take legal gain in national legislation, and the same is defined as Article 9th year in the conditions of full EU membership. 145th century 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We have also heard that the plan in question is complete and timely, i.e. comprehensive information on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2022, which therefore stems from EU membership, primarily from our obligation to continue to take over the new acquis of the EU into national legislation. It should be stressed here that EU legislation is only effective if Member States have fully and accurately transposed it and, on the other hand, have properly applied it to national legislation, which is, of course, necessary to ensure the benefits of EU policies for all citizens of Europe and equal conditions for businesses throughout the internal market. For the proper transposition, application and implementation of EU law, Member States are primarily responsible, while the uniform application of EU law in all Member States is crucial for the success of the EU based precisely on the principles of rule of law and relys on the right to ensure the implementation of its policies and priorities in the EU and in its Member States. With this in mind, effective enforcement of European rules serves the public interest and is important for all Croatian citizens, because it has a very positive impact on their daily lives. Whether it is about fundamental freedoms, increasing food safety, improving air quality or allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to participate more easily and cheaply in public competitions. This year's plan includes a total of 46 legislative measures, i.e. the laws to be taken over primarily by the new legal property of the EU, where the Republic of Croatia is currently changing its national legislation by means of active monitoring and development of legal property by the competent authorities of the State. It is important here to point out that the work invested in ensuring the effective enforcement of existing EU law should be considered as important as the work dedicated to the creation of new EU legislation. Most of the proposed legislative measures, 33 out of the total as I have already said 46, the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to bring in the first two quarters of 2022. The legislative harmonisation plan also has a preventive effect on the procedures that the European Commission can take against the Republic of Croatia for breach of EU law. In this connection, it is necessary to highlight the importance of timely taking over of the EU acquis, because in the event of a delay against the Republic of Croatia as well as against any other member, an official infringement of EU law can be initiated before the EU Court of Justice, and the final outcome of the case before the Court itself can lead to the establishment of a fine for breach of EU law. The EU Court of Justice infringement procedure itself can either be initiated by the European Commission or by another Member State. It can therefore be concluded that the adoption of this document confirms the effectiveness of the functioning of the Republic of Croatia as an EU Member State, as well as the promotion of national interests through the work and compliance of future EU legislation, which create and implement common EU policies with a very clear objective, that consistent implementation of these laws goes primarily to the benefit of all Croatian citizens, and bring them concrete benefits and better quality conditions in everyday life. Following all of the above and in line with the practice so far, since we consider this document an important Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of course to support the adoption of a proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis for the EU for 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88295	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88296	Thank you. I seem to be the most enthusiastic person in the debate on this subject, but that's the topic I deal with almost daily, so let me have a few personal views that I didn't want to say on behalf of the club. So first of all, what I would say is that when we passed the Law on Cooperation from the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European affairs, we may have overlooked some things that we should have done differently. One of these is the delivery of the position of the Republic of Croatia whenever possible, as soon as possible in advance of the meeting. It is clear that some of the formats of the meeting are such that the views cannot be delivered in advance. Some meetings are ad hoc as well as some topics, and there are often discussions on the sidelines about things that are impossible to predict but if discussed on the margins it is not an official meeting again. However, there are formats in which a position can be delivered relatively in advance and it would be good above all because of the resolution committees if they could take a position eventually to make some adjustments in their position or to give specific suggestions. In parliamentary life, since it is always the majority who has a majority on all committees, including the Committee on European Affairs, but other Committees of Resolutions are generally confirmed, i.e. they cannot remember that someone has not been confirmed. However, what is certainly useful, I think, for the promoters, for those who come before the Committee on European Affairs, to defend a certain view that they can hear some problems, to point to some problems that are then convenient and to install in our position or at least to keep in mind. So it's one added value of such a format of work and it shouldn't be practiced even though by law it doesn't have to be that way. That's one thing. And the other thing is that I will once again express great satisfaction with the fact that more and more working bodies are involved in European affairs, want to consider certain views and discuss issues that are being discussed within the EU itself, want to give guidance and to the Committee on European Affairs and also to relevant ministries, and we have finally come to realize that we often like to talk about how we do not have an impact on some EU laws. Not quite the opposite, we have a pretty good deal. So we as the Croatian Parliament can do so in this format. There's an informal one that might be working on it differently, but now it's not a topic of discussion so I don't get involved. However, it is good that as many committees participate in this debate as possible if for nothing else, at least that MPs and MPs know what the topics discussed at European level are because they will definitely come at some point at national level. Here's so much in your personal name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88297	Thank you very much. Then please remain immediately as you have reached out and are finally speaking on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you are, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be there very briefly because I think I said most in the first part. So absolutely this is a document that we're going to support. I hope that any changes will be made, that we will be notified in time. And I would also just like to express my concern or more of an application to the Government, which is the most often initiator of legislative changes, and will also be the proponent of these laws that the EU acquis mark is not used as an excuse for an emergency procedure. Because I'm sure we'll be changing some laws, and among other things, I think my colleague Hajdash Doncic mentioned the Labour Act. So one very complex law that requires at least two readings. I think that a much better quality document will be produced if we don't go to the emergency team anymore because sometimes some articles, some amendments, are undermined by compliance with the EU acquis, and that's not always the case. So, I can't claim it specifically, but I remember that in the Committee on European Integration, we've come across such cases and that simply some changes cannot be characterized as those that align with the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-21-0.u88299	And now we are going to the next point, which is: - The proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU for 2022; the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Secretary of State Frano Matušić, please.
