ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98547	Good morning, everyone. We're moving on with our work. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure have been proposed to supplement the agenda of the 10th session with five new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure if any of the MPs have an objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed amendment and addition of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 261? If there are no objections, I consider that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. Rule 205. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of objection to the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda is not to determine that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 10th session. Today we start with: - Annual State Support Report for 2020. The holder is the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 17. State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Dear Secretary of State Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98548	I would like to thank the honourable Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. The Annual State Support Report for 2020 is ahead. which is as stated in accordance with Article. 17. State aid law was drafted by the Ministry of Finance. As regards the report itself, it contains an analytical representation of all state aid and support of small value allocated to the Republic of Croatia in 2020. In accordance with the methodology for showing state aid in the EU. So the report before you also includes revised data for '18. and '19. This report also includes data on all state aids and aids of small value in the agriculture and fisheries sector, although those aids are not subject to the State aid Act itself. However, since the Ministry of Agriculture as the competent ministry is required to provide the above information to the Ministry of Finance and these data are covered by this report in order to obtain an even wider picture and cover as many amounts as possible. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance in the report shows exclusively the data provided by the support providers by the entry into the Register of State aid and small-value support. This register has been established since 1 January 2017. as a unique electronic database containing data on all notified programmes and individual support. As regards the report in question as well as the previous years, continued growth of the State aid granted is present and support is indicated in 2020. amounting to 21 billion kuna 99.5 million, which is an increase of 40% compared to the previous reporting period. When few of these data are further explained, the share of the total aid granted is observed in relation to the share in GDP, i.e. in the 20th year, at 5.68%, while per employee support amounted to 13.666,64 kuna and per capita in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. It was €5.274.88 and the share of the total expenditure of the country was 20.72%. As regards the very allocation of aid in 2020. One of the greatest influences was the negative problem of the covid-19 disease pandemic which was partly mirrored on the very structure of the support granted. As regards the general division itself and the structure, therefore the support is shared according to instruments, according to both the level and the categories. As regards the level, they may be state, regional, local and others, as regards the instruments themselves, they may be through subsidies and direct subsidies of interest, also through tax exemptions, exemptions, tax exemptions, contributions and reliefs that are of their kind AA1, A2. As regards the aid they can be through capital investments, they can also be through loans and through guarantees issued, each of them is still divided into different subsections. As far as the categories are concerned, they are horizontal, sectoral or regional. As far as these two main categories are concerned, when it comes to supporting agriculture and fisheries and supporting industry and services. As regards the agriculture and fisheries sector in 2020 Supports amounting to 7 billion 679, 9 million kuna, which is an increase of over one billion or 15% compared to 2019. The share of such support is 36.4 and the GDP share is 2.07%. As regards the support of the second part of the division of industry and services, they are in 2020. amounting to €13 billion 419.6 million, which is an increase of over 5 billion or 60% compared to 2019, while the remaining share is 63.6%, and in GDP it is 3.61%). As regards the sector itself in industry and services, there are sectoral support, horizontal support including regional and local support, and we also have 1.6 more than 1.6 billion support in relation to support the economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Total horizontal support has been granted at an amount of € 4.5 billion. Which is an increase of over 2 billion or 82.9% compared to 2019 and we can even mention 150% compared to 2018. Horizontal support in a narrow sense, so what might be best to say out of all these support is that the most fruitful and most effective are support for research and development and innovation for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, training and culture are allocated to 2.5 billion more kunas. Regional support amounts to slightly below 1.2 billion kuna while support at local level was 724 million kuna. The share of these support in narrow terms, as I said those 2 slightly more than 2.5 billion kuna in GDP, was 0.69% and their share in total aids was 2.2 12.2%. Regional support has been granted in terms of a billion and 199.8 million kuna, which is an increase of 313 million kuna or 35.4% compared to 2019, while the share of total support is 5.7% and their share of GDP is 0.32. And the last horizontal in terms of units of regional, local and regional self-government has totaled 724 million kunas. This is a 3% increase compared to 2019, a share in total support 3.4 and their share in GDP is 0.19. As regards sectoral support, total support to specific sectoral sectors has been allocated to 7 billion, 275.7 million kuna, an increase of billions and 346.6 million kuna or 22.7% compared to 19. The share in total support is 34.5%. Their share in the industry and services sector is 54.2%, and the share in GDP is 1.96. The largest part of the support in the specific sectors concerns environmental protection and energy conservation, amounting to nearly 2.4 billion kuna with a share of 32.7%. After that, support in the transport sector, support for the development of wide-ranging networks, public broadcasting services, and then for the rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty, there are some 392 million, the shipbuilding sector 238, postal services and the tourism sector. As regards the aforementioned, the support for support for the economy in the current pandemic Covid-19 here is only covered by the data that are counted under this Support Act. It would point out that, especially during the first lockdown support, they had a horizontal meaning at the time or were covered as horizontal, later on, according to the temporary financing framework and programmes, we will report ex-post through certain and notifications to the Commission and the discussion as well as the rest of the EU. As for the '20s. For the first time, then, support for the pandemic economy is given. They were allocated totalling a billion, 643.7 million kuna. The share of these support was 7.8%, with a share in the industry and services sector at 12.3%. By means of the temporary framework of the European Commission and through various programmes, the providers of these support were in HABOR of 1 point billion and 339 million kuna, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 203 million kuna, HAMAG BICRO of 84 and the Ministry of Culture and Media of 16.1 million kuna. As regards support for small value or de minimis support, they amounted to a billion and 523 million kunas, down from 274.2 million kunas or 15.3% compared to 19. the year, while the share of these support in GDP was 0.41%. So, in addition to what I have said, the support shown in this report in terms of looking at the economic circumstances and the difficulties caused by the pandemic itself should be taken into account, therefore these 1.6, as I have already said, are not the only ones with this objective. They did not necessarily contain elements of state support but had a direct or indirect impact on entrepreneurs as we know to preserve jobs and all the other problems they had as a result of the pandemic disease. Of course, there is still to be taken into account and, in view of the impact of natural disasters or earthquakes that happened to us so that in real 2020 it was extremely, extremely challenging. The economic policy measures based on different forms of state aid have been largely targeted by different incentives and resolution of the currently mentioned damages with the aim of preserving jobs, the economic infrastructure that apparently affected the growth of the amount of aid granted, given the effects of the aid itself being measured, something is seen in the short term something is really long-term, we can say that in 2020, when we look at economic growth in 2021, which is above and above that nominal from 2019, not necessarily had their own impact and gave their tax. In this context, the Republic of Croatia used different forms of aid, relying largely on the instruments of the so-called ‘. guarantee schemes based on which guarantees were allocated as I said HABAK, HABOR, HAMAG BICRO, Ministry of the Sea and Ministry of Culture, Tourism, etc. Also, as regards only some perspectives for the end, depending on the course of economic recovery, the EU itself can expect a continuation of access to the grant of support based on the specifics set out through the provisional framework, while expecting a new set of rules to be directed at so-called. Postcovid period, but also the measures which will aim to reduce the negative economic consequences caused by changes in energy prices and related disturbances in supply chains, which is further... In the middle of Russian aggression and invasion in Ukraine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the future period is a kind of opportunity in which, through a state support policy, the system can be substantially structured in order to ultimately have a positive impact on the entire Croatian economy and on the growth of standards. Finally, in all respects of all those mentioned in this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that HS adopt this year's support report in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98549	Here we have a few replicas, the first respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott... And I'm sorry, sir. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Nikola Grmoya, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98550	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to consult on this point of state support. So the Secretary of State here made an amount of 5.86% of GDP, so as far as I've heard through, which is divided through support, it's a huge amount of money and it's a question of whether it's a real state policy, since we know how the support is granted. Is it much better to go in the direction of disbanding our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our farmers, or in the direction that the state takes less from them, not to be the state that will share the support of both grandmothers and uncles? The arrest of Minister Horvat was also shown through this affair in the way the support was shared. We had a situation that Mr. Pupovac, Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic and Dragana Jeckov, provided support to themselves to close entrepreneurs and not to people of Serbian nationality, but to people close to the SDSS, so they got no support for the funeral company in the Court of the Union, auto mechanics' shop from Trpinska cesta, so companies that did not meet the criteria and would not pass the competition. It is time to break up with this practice and surely this is not as the secretary of state says well because sharing support without criteria, not going in the direction of discharging everyone who wants to do something in Croatia and living certainly is not a good way. The bridge will be against such a policy because this is not a development policy but a policy that suits those close to HDZ and the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98551	Time. We're approving the break, but it's the same. 239.a. Let's get back to work. The first replica of the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98552	Dear Secretary of State, I have one request from my colleague Grumo. Why 2020. from your report, so state support given to the Elektrocenter Friday, Kresche Friday's firm? This is the gentleman who was charged with bribing the president of the management of Janaf Dragan Kovacevic in the room of the famous Club of Slavonski 9 in 2019 to enable the same company to obtain investment jobs with Janaf. To translate, the money that was paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia by citizens and entrepreneurs, and the Ministry of Finance and I don't know which other ministry, probably gave that money by who knows what criteria Kreshi Friday was then used to pay in Slavonska 9 an investment corruption shop to get a lucrative job, so now I'm interested in what makes this money give Kreshi Friday, and what are the criteria by which this person got that money, and did you control it, and how is it even possible for such a person to get such a state support?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98553	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98554	Here's a thank you. As I was saying in the introduction, the Ministry of Finance records all the support with an insight or registration by those who assign and disseminating programmes. We don't monitor, so I'm not familiar with the program according to which individual companies have reported to and according to which ministry, we're just recording and keeping an eye on all of this. Thus, the implementation of certain aid itself belongs to the provider who was in 2020. 25 different, therefore, by the moss of the ministries and other public bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98555	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98556	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned horizontal support in a narrow sense, including support for employment and training for which 342 million kuna has been allocated, mostly through active HZZ policy measures and 270 million kuna. I think it is necessary to stress that, through these support to the labour market, 23,000 unemployed were introduced and detained, and even when we add users from the previous period, around 50,000 users were working during 2020. Despite the importance of the number, despite the fact that there was one interruption in the implementation of measures due to the 3 to 7-month crown, they were subsequently continued. So this is where unemployed people who are harder to employ, older people, young to 29, women, people with disabilities and the like, and it is important to maintain the continuity of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98557	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98558	Thank you. I can only briefly conclude that much more has been invested in these measures that you've been doing, which is about the end of '21. There were 12 billion kunas, but as part of the State Aid Act, these are just over 1.6 billion kunas. And as for the horizontal ones themselves, I would just like to single out that we have allocated 1.4 billion kuna as one of those measures that will certainly give and give full effect in the next year's research of innovation in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98559	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here's what you said, increasing support in all directions. I think first of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown a timely, strong and effective reaction not only to the pandemic of covida-10 but to everything currently happening on the global stage of the world. I can understand that the opposition bothers that 700,000 jobs were saved which saved over 120,000 entrepreneurs, but good. What I'm interested in is whether and in what way and through the new statistical division of the Republic of Croatia, the fairer division of the Republic of Croatia, and also through the NPOO, we will go towards further increases in exactly horizontal support that in some way create the best cost of benefit for our citizens and entrepreneurs and can you say about both the pandemic and the earthquake will continue in this direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98561	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98562	So, he's injured. 238, it doesn't bother the opposition to any job saved, the opposition is in the way of crime. And it's sad that you don't mind crime and that people who didn't meet the criteria get support and incentives, that's sad, and that's why everyone should imagine themselves because you're the representative of the ruling party who approves of crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98563	This was a replica not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98564	The Honorable Chairman. Art. 238, namely, my colleague Mazhar misstates the data. It's not wrong for us to save 70,000 places, it's wrong for us not to save a million places in this, because the support is given in the wrong way by the wrong criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98565	Okay, and you used this as a replica,...you have a warning. Answer, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98566	Thank you. Therefore, the support itself must understand that it is not only transfers but also guarantees are tax incentives, i.e. the release of certain tax duties and, of course, the use of eu components. Just in the '21s. through NPOOs will also be part of the funds that will be allocated to this way and represent the very support that will be granted to entrepreneurs, as you know who are carrying out economic activity, so that the European Commission has foreseen this as a covid and post-covid, and now also in this energy and Ukrainian crisis, or aggression of the Russian Federation as a potential for the development and conservation of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98567	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98568	My dear secretary. You are one of those representatives of the government who comes to the assembly in front of parliamentary deputies really always ready and generally knows all those reports and laws that need to be presented here. Today, in your opening statement, you said this is an analytical report, if you don't mind, please give me a look at how much for small entrepreneurs is allocated to the counties in this report. I'd find that interesting to hear, but the very report is not your additional paper but your report, it means how isolated it is for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98569	So, first of all, what I said was that the support is also shared by categories through local self-government units, so regional support is consistent with the EU methodology, so all you are now alluding is that there is no report that is not structured we follow the EU methodology, and of course we can answer more specifically, but we are obliged to stick to the methodology itself that is drawn up in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98570	The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98571	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You also mentioned the support of a small value that is e.g. The Ministry of Regional Development and Funds itself has allocated more than €69.4 million, and it must be pointed out that just as well as cities that are still undeveloped in one way, this is Vukovar and Knin and Benkovac, and what is particularly interesting is that around 9 million subsidies have been granted through these support for those programmes relating to islands or subsidisation of island employers for the preservation of jobs, which is very important in order to maintain and preserve this island population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98572	Thank you. I could only absolutely add that we are aware of the need to pursue programmes, and not only de minimis means one of the de minimis conditions to be up to 200,000 euros in three years, so now given the amount that it can really contribute. It is safe through the programme and where some amounts up to a billion and 800 million per entrepreneur at EU level that certain thresholds give us more operational opportunities, and therefore more impact on some regional support, but above all on support as a whole. This should be one long-term objective through all these 25 different institutions that brought support programmes in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98573	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98574	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. You're a secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and what I'd be interested in, given all the measures you've mentioned, an epidemic of coronaryvirus, you've mentioned support that sought to mitigate the negative consequences and closures and all the measures that we've had and everything else, can you give some kind of a court as an official in the Ministry of Finance, what impact has been on this price rise that we have on everything that has been done not only in Croatia but in the EU and the world over the past two years? So, because we now have the impression that this war in Ukraine is the only one responsible for the rise in prices we have, the growth of energy, the impact of all those measures of printing money in the EU has had an impact on price growth and on what we are witnessing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98575	Thank you. That's a great point and a great question. So, as far as current inflation is concerned, it is the product of a number of elements of course when the pandemic came it stopped demand, they stopped the logistics supply chains, at one point as if someone had turned it back on again in a short time, and it was no longer able to logistically supply entrepreneurs, citizenship, and there was a rise of natural prices. There we can only take an example of that ship that has prevented itself from causing huge supply difficulties, but of course the cost of transporting a container. And according to these projections, this year, as this will normalise inflation and the energy crisis has come, which for some other reasons has offered inflation itself primarily speculative prices for gas prices in its research, transport has not accumulated, but has gone up speculatively. So this printing that was done in terms of so-called printing of money or providing measures has caused economic growth to rise. above that inflation, however, we now have another pair of gloves we must fight. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98576	Mr. Thunder mask. Dear Representative Marin Miletic, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98577	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader. Dear Secretary of State, you have your cell phone on you, I think your pages are hacked, so now that you hear it, call the services immediately to react. We're talking about support for micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. Whatever program you click on the secretary of state listen to this, click for example. HAMAG BICRO As for the loan or guarantee, we now listen to everything you say here, and get this notice, quote from your pages. We inform all entrepreneurs that, as of 31 July 2020, all new ECIF applications, a micro-loan for craft, have been suspended temporarily due to the use of the funds. During the new action, we will inform you all in good time. Can I have your comment on what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98578	So here I guess it's about the pages of HAMAG BICRO, right, that's where you read it. It was a measure used by funds related to the relief of the pandemic itself. That doesn't mean everyone else has been suspended, I guess. Of course, as far as each individual program is concerned, it depends primarily on the means to do so. Now why isn't something updated or is it I can't answer on behalf of other colleagues. I agree that perhaps we should adapt some further. What we certainly expect to continue lending and on the trail of this which was the contribution of HAMAG to this economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98579	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98580	I don't use this institution very often, but I need state secretary. So whatever program you click, whatever program the secretary of state, means we're not just talking about Covid, whatever program you click to get that 2020 is spent money and there's no new money. And now we're listening to stories and fairy tales. We listen to fairy tales all the time. Turns out we live, I don't know who Alice is in Wonderland. So, please, here I appeal to you to call your services not to manipulate the Croatian public and that They'll handle it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98581	You know you used this as a replica, you get a warning. Further, the next replica of the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98582	Thank you very much. Well, on the one hand, we can say that perhaps today's passage is already talking about the aids that have been granted in 2020, but it's still good to talk, given that, just in 2020, support has been granted at the most so far, until that time, and we know for what reason, of course, because of the impact. In order to support the economy as a response to the pandemic, but here, too, it should be noted that these support too were often delayed especially in those most difficult days for, for the caterers. However, if we look at the general indicators of other countries, EU member states, support, support is structurally different from those of us. So, other EU members are largely encouraging research, innovation, development and employment while most of the cakes actually go to a farm that is here from year to year on land, stagnating. So here's my question to you is how do you actually approach as a supporter, how do you access the design of the program and actually follow up on the sector? who received support in further development? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98583	I can agree with you, and I have mentioned here that as for us as the Ministry of Finance who records everything that has happened, I don't write about the programmes, we don't implement them, that encouraging this growth is horizontal as far as research, development and innovation are concerned. They go through subsidies and through certain manifestations and support through certain tax reliefs. Of course this all these suggestions, I will note that for agriculture there is a third of all the support, agriculture and fishing went away most of all the support, the rest went to industry and services. So this ratio is somewhat more and perhaps satisfying, however, what is most important in each support are the effects and effectiveness. This is what we can see in the short term, and sometimes if we are talking about this Covid then we saw in the short term that people were not getting fired and that we have preserved almost all jobs in some way, even it has increased, but also the long-term that is seen in the existence of these companies, their business and ultimately the impact on the growth of the economy itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98584	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98585	... Of course I support the support especially of those directed by the government towards preserving jobs, according to the preservation of our economy. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] However, my question is now focused on something else. Croatia has opted for even regional development and I think there is a public opinion that it is not always in the planning of these programmes and support uniformly. In fact, here's an example for the Ministry of Regional Development in the '20s. The year grants 260 million subsidies under the programme to support sustainable restoration of cultural heritage, there were 22 entities of which 21 were Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, only one city of Split, whether it is from the development programme Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, and if it is not, then the imbalance is a little too large.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98586	Thank you. So, as far as I'm concerned, I can tell you here, here, I can't enter into the structure of a single project as much as anyone is favored or not, we don't keep that information that way, I can only tell you about the total of regional support that amounts to almost 9% of all or support at the level of units of local and regional or regional self-government that are at 5.4. It's about their programs they're running. Different types of support go through different types of ministries, they write programmes concerning the Ministry of Regional, Economy, etc., so that this should be more achieved through the implementing bodies. I agree with you that even regional development is absolutely one of the basics and constitutional provisions, of course when we say even, it means that we encourage others who are below to come to the same level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98587	And the last replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98588	Thank you. So the total amount of aid granted amounts to 21 billion kuna. That's five Peles bridges. For this reason, we ask ourselves, for a reason, how much of this amount has gone to corrupt purposes, in particular bearing in mind all affairs, investigations and arrests. Two basic problems, not sufficiently clear and precise criteria in the procedure, are assigned, which in view of all the different bodies that grant support and subsidies is not even strange, and the other problem is lack of transparency in the allocation. So I suggest that when the Ministry of Finance already has a register that registers all individual support, it makes that register publicly available and easily available in an easily searchable way because of this report in which you are suspiciously presenting statistics, there is absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98589	So, which, if I may, therefore, as far as the assignments themselves are concerned, they must absolutely be public, so programmes and assignments must be published by each single competent authority that implements it, so it must be available information by each ministry and, above all, transparency itself is and is determined in one way and through this EU registry and I believe that on the basis of this, it may be... Compiling these alone would make it easier to search, but these are publicly available data and we will certainly if it is not well stated and try then to compile it at any time possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the problem is that the effects of the support and the duration of the months are not only the effects but also the self-declaration and control of the same bodies by the dissipating bodies, so that in this register we now compile in the last year for the past year with all the effects that are with all the programs themselves, so that they can be difficult to be real about themselves and the register, but as far as the person who calls it absolutely is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98590	Thank you, Secretary of State. Just a note, after the end of this point will be a statement of view, so here's a notice to everyone. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Then I open the debate, the first one for discussion is reported on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta, the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98591	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. Before I go, I'd just like to set up a framework in which we're going to discuss this topic today and actually start with an old saying that can be applied to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course the saying of the market economy that is, if actually the Government of the Republic of Croatia were sent to the Sahara to manage it after 5 years. We'd have sand shortages in the Sahara. So, long ago, economic practice has shown and proved that high government spending, therefore high taxes, excessive debt and inflation, thus actually lead to unhealthy, uncompetitive and three states, which is actually the case with us if we are losing at an annual level somewhere around 15 Peljega bridges. What is also a framework in which we would like to further set up is that the latest list in Croatia shows that we have a devastating demographic data, which will further affect sustainability and the health and pension system, but also the sustainability of the state in general. And the state support that we are discussing today we are arguing at the Mosta Club is unfair, they have no economic account and they are immoral because it inhibits the development of society because the government of the Republic of Croatia actually takes money from those who are productive to help unproductive, corrupt and those who are close to the country. State entities do not actually receive state aid or support, so it is a forced withdrawal of money both from a natural person and from legal entities through, say, one of the highest VAT rates in Europe, through, say, over-printing of money that has been multiplely higher in the last 10 years. From the rate of GDP growth, through excessive borrowing and perhaps even the largest corruption in the EU. So, what is crucial here is why do we feel that they are unfair, economically unjust and immoral? For the reasons that are given to entities that are close to the authorities with unclear criteria, always followed by affairs, non-existent control mechanisms, and in fact they are business entities through which they are invested, and they are not actually contributing and let's see it now on examples. What I asked the secretary here today, can someone explain to me why state support was in 2020? According to this report here Kresa Friday, which is narrow in 2019, Martinje was therefore accused and charged that he had bribed in the premises of Slovenia 9 with these state aids received by the President of the Administration of Janaf in order to get a lucrative job and now let's translate it. So, forcedly withdraw money from our citizens and entrepreneurs, that money ends in the budget so that the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy will then give the money in the form of support to the person who gives bribes in Slovenia 9 in order to get a lucrative job. In the end, citizens and entrepreneurs actually become investors of one investment in corruption. You know what the biggest grief there is? Which is confirmed by an old Arabic proverb that says that the border between civilization and barbarism lies deep in the sands of the desert that we touched at the beginning of this exhibition. And you know what's even sadder than all that? Yes, with Plenkovic and the ministers of ante portas, this government has long launched us into corrupt barbarism. As for the economy itself, it was very well detected by fellow Miletic along with his team, so HBOR was in 2020. Subsidized interest. Now imagine the situation, we only subsidize interest which is extremely low on the capital market. On the other hand, Italy has developed an excellent comprehensive support programme for companies both micro, so small, so medium, called Nuova Sabatini and the goal is to facilitate access to credits for businesses, increase competitiveness, etc. and now on the one hand you have a Croatian government that subsidises interest and on the other hand you have Italy that subsidizes absolutely and principally and interest so that at one point the Italian economy becomes as competitive as possible. And what do you think will be more competitive after all these crises, the Italian economy or the Croatian economy where interest is subsidized or where both the principal and interest are subsidized? So, the Nuova Sabatini measure is also available for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises to finance plants, equipment, generations of 4.0, to finance hardware, software and digitisation of systems something similar to what Estonia does at EU level. Now, when you look at the country economy, Italy has three times the GDP of Croatia, it means three times the GDP, and through the 2022--2026 Nuova Sabatini programme, it will invest about a billion euros, somewhere two Peljega bridges, approximately that we can move in some gabarites. And now it is expected that at least a third of it will be invested by the Croatian government in Croatian companies. You know what the fact is? This is exactly what your colleague Miletic touched today, when you come to the HAMAG-Micro site and click on how to access loans and guarantees, there is one red notice so make sure to click on it because the person who goes by it thinks they will come to the loan or guarantee there tells you the notice, so we inform all entrepreneurs that at the end of the 7th month 2020. We are suspending the adoption of new requirements, and we will inform new activations in due time. So on the one hand, it's said that something is supported by businesses, on the other hand, people can't access money, and countries in our environment are very much financing businesses. And then I ask myself a question, so who are you lying to? National guarantees were paid at the end of 2020. 16 million kunas, and no guarantees went to business development. So we see the initial setting of the Bridge itself, so this support is neither fair nor moral, nor economically justified. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, it's not a problem that so much money is invested in agriculture itself, it's not a problem. You know what the problem is? The problem is that there are thousands of people who finance entrepreneurship and work while actually working for a subsidy, so they work for a subsidy, and these people could actually be useful and productive for the whole of society if their resources were directed towards, say, some marketable jobs. While, on the other hand, those marketable jobs such as sugar, for example, you have shut them down completely, you have completely shut them down where the EU has then strongly regulated the sugar market and caused chaos. Due to the restrictions on sugar production or those quotas, there has been a decrease in the production of sugar both in the EU and in Croatia, it has led to a decline in production, market distortions and imbalances throughout the sugar sector where the interest of the sugar producer has fallen. Since 2014-2019, almost 10,000 football fields have fewer production surfaces of sugar tails in just five years. Well, that's tax. So what did you do? So two market interventions, one at EU level, the other at country level where you started with aid from 2019-2021. 60 million kuna each year, 20 million kuna, and on the other hand, one intervention means state, another state intervention and another tax. So what are you supporting in the sector that you will then tax on sugar-containing products? Well, that's crazy. So what you've done with regulation is you've broken the whole market and industry, and you've put in support that you've then taxed. So, when a man looks at it all on the side, there comes a strong picture of marathons running around in an honorable circle, marathons who can't run it anymore in terms of the destruction of the Croatian economy. The Marathons Plenkovic with their ministers and background players are the trumpeters these great players in the EU sugars, and the deceased of our Croatian economy and sectors that you are erasing amazingly and still provide support, and then you tax, mutilate, die and simply so who can produce under such conditions. So what's visible only from what we've exposed today is that governmental solutions to these state aid problems are just as bad as the problem itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98592	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98593	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the annual State aid report for 2020, so the annual State aid report was drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and this report contains an analytical picture of all state aid, state aid in general and support for small value in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. and it is shown in accordance with the methodology for showing state aid in accordance with EU rules and which includes audited support for 2018 and 2019. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance in the report shows exclusively the data provided by the support providers by the register of the same state support and support of small value. Namely, 1 January 2017. The Ministry established the register as a unique electronic database containing data on all notified programmes and individual support, as well as data on all state aid granted and small value support in the whole country. In accordance with the legal rules, all support providers in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to enter all information on the aid granted to the registry without delay or immediately following the allocation, and the support providers are solely responsible for the accuracy and credibility of the data entered in the register, so it was understandable that the State Secretary could not even answer any more specific questions, since the ministries and bodies of the state, state authorities and agencies are nevertheless those who grant such support, and it was understandable that he might not have given certain, certain answers to questions. As in early times and in 2020. The continued growth of the State aid granted is present and the aid is listed in 2020. amounting to around 21 billion kuna and 100 million kuna, which is an increase of 40% compared to the previous reporting period, which is quite logical in the light of nature, the nature of the problem we had, which was the presence in 2020. i.e. the onset of covid pandemic. When the total share of the aid granted is observed compared to the share of GDP, it is the same in 2020. It was 5.7% while employee support amounted to 13.666,64 kuna and support per capita in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 5.274,88 kuna, while the share of State expenditure was 20.72%. As regards the very allocation of support in 2020, One of the greatest influences was the negative problem of the covid-19 disease pandemic which was partly mirrored on the very structure of the support granted. As regards the structure of the aid from the total amount of aid granted in 2020, to support in the agricultural and fisheries sector is the amount of 7 billion and 679 million kuna or 36.4%, and the support granted in the sector is worth 13 billion 419.6 million kuna or 63.6%. It simply comes out of this need, where the state has responded extremely well, and these are all the support we were aware of and witnesses so when we were in one of the biggest crises ever since the Croatian states, so this covid pandemic where the government was extremely strong, timely and high-quality stepped up and gave support to both farmers and industry and job conservation, so there was indeed one big, big, strong action by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we managed to preserve that essence of our economy in agriculture and the industrial sector and the service sector and prepare for 2021. when we did a great tourist season where we started raising GDP again, filling a quality budget, and that is proof that the government really understood what was going on in Europe and the world and quality, quality programs we managed to do. That's why I deeply disagree with my colleagues from the Bridge that this support has been missed. Definitely not, it has, it has shown itself, it has also proved in this period that is behind us and I think that every well-intentioned said would be rational and reasonable man can understand that without such support today in this situation the Croatian economy and the chance of the Croatian economy would not be as it is, and we see for ourselves what is happening today on world markets when we talked about, therefore, reducing VAT and when the budget is healthy, when we managed to understand everything that is happening around us and we managed to give a good proposal to reduce VAT. Also in 2020. We also made a strong step and a good, good, good job done for the Croatian state and for Croatian citizens. Therefore, there is no claim and can absolutely not agree that these support is missed and that it should definitely be abolished, there should be no improvement in the support, give them a new, new meaning and support will certainly continue to be a strong impulse for Croatia, for the Croatian economy and for Croatian agriculture, because without that, absolutely, we would not be able to count on development, development. Therefore, the aid was largely granted through subsidies and direct subsidies, interest with a share of 70.8%, through capital investments to which the share of 10.4% is related through tax exemptions, exemptions... taxes and contributions... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] relating to 7.9% while 6,1% of support has been granted through the guarantee issued and 4.2% through favourable loans. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss The share of these aids totalled 7.8%, with a share in the industry and services sector at 12.3% while their share in GDP was 0.44%. This support was granted in accordance with the provisional framework of the European Commission and these risk programmes, while the donors and those support providers were HABOR worth billions and 339 million kuna, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure of up to 23.7 million kuna, HAMAG BICRO 84 million kuna, Ministry of Culture of 16.1 million kuna. So you definitely need to understand why that redness was on HAMAG. The support in that part, in that part of the support provided for Covid’s programmes was simply disbursed or given to our economies who were then in great support and need and simply no more money from these programmes. Therefore, any reasonable person who reads a lot should not work from this case but should simply be instructed may be updated pages, but it is known what was, which was the intensity of these support at that time. Therefore, this one should consider it without any malice or any kind of aferic remarks in the whole story. I know reliably that HAMAG BICRO definitely does its job very well and people who work at HAMAG BICRO are really great support to the small and medium economy. And that's what needs to be pointed out. And the programmes they implement are really, really needed by the small and medium-sized economies and entrepreneurs and those who have met with, with people who work at HAMAG BICRO have only words of praise. So here's what we definitely have to say from this pay phone. What is very important is to say that support should be improved, it should give them real sense to continue to be a great support to the Croatian economy, Croatian agriculture and I think that without such a great intervention of the state towards entrepreneurs and our economy, the situation of our economy would be much, much worse than it is today. And I think here and I encourage the entire state apparatus to continue working on, to develop programmes through HAMAG BICRO and through direct state support and subsidies and through HABOR, to make these programmes as accessible to our farmers, our farmers and that we can also see these demanding years ahead of us further develop our society, our economy to, therefore, benefit every citizen of the Republic. In any case, the HDZ Club will support this report for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98594	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's representative, respected representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, Your Honor Kresho, this means this dilemma which has been carried out here by support or not, completely wrong of course. And here I agree with my colleague, Kleman, my colleagues from MOST, always want to dramaticize the situation and then also in the area of support. In fact, support is a legal and necessary instrument of economic policy that is actually trying to correct some market inequalities and to change the market conditions in favour of those sectors, those activities that are extremely necessary for a state and its citizens. I can't imagine transporting up, shipping to our islands without subsidizing that transport. I don't know how many people would stay on the islands at all if they were to pay the market price for this ferry and other means of transport, how many companies would survive on the islands, so that our islands would work at all. I cannot imagine the functioning of Croatian agriculture without support because they receive support from the EU Agricultural Fund and farmers in all other Member States, and if a country were exposed to that kind of competition, it certainly would not, would not. Therefore, support is absolutely necessary both a legal and legitimate instrument. The other thing is whether support is being abused. There are cases like that, we're aware of that, and that's another question. It is a question of institutions that need first of all to control the use of support, their effectiveness, and secondly if there are real crime and fraud then it is a third thing I would say to the institution that we see the same in this segment we have some shifts and lately and there are slightly changing things and it seems to me that more serious approaches and more effective approaches to preventing such fraud in different segments of providing support and subsidies. But what I would like, apart from these figures that are mentioned here today, especially to point out in these few minutes is the fact that we are facing very serious crises, not since yesterday, but rather two years actually. First of all, the Covid crisis, and then the earthquake crisis that took place in Zagreb and Petrinja and the surrounding area, and then here are the last 3-4 weeks and this terrible war in Ukraine, so where we are directly exposed, not we may be sitting here but our companies that have serious business relations and a significant share of their realisation through exports not only to Russia but also to Ukraine. So both situations affect these companies. We had a chance to hear this day about Slavonski Brod TeP, there is the Adriatic Galen Lab, for example AD Plastik, Sardin from Postir, and even one part of the sale of Podravka and many other Croatian companies that are doing business with these 2 or have done business so far from the 2 countries. So, we are witnessing the fact that the government reacted relatively well to the Covid crisis perhaps not time, timely, but what happened afterwards was quite generous and gave certain effects. The government reacted relatively well at the beginning of this year to a crisis that was caused by these global disturbances and supply chains, especially in the energy market and that 5 billion kuna package that we had the opportunity to discuss here yesterday is something that was assessed quite good. But what I've heard in these last few days or weeks is a repeat story about that package of 5 billion kunas as something that has absorbed and a problem caused in the last few weeks of the war. But it's not like that. So it was tailored to the situation of growing inflation and everything that it and such inflation produced or could produce in the coming weeks and months, which I say absolutely for a welcome either once again, but this does not solve this new problem. The new problem is looking for new solutions. And it would be really bad if the government at this point had baffled this new ungrateful position is specifically saying to these companies that I have highlighted, and to many others who are either directly and even indirectly exposed to the impact of the crisis that arises from this, this aggression of Russia to Ukraine and those sanctions that followed. So I expect, I really expect from the government, and it will probably be coordinated with the European Commission to prepare a package of measures that would support all companies, Croatian firms that are directly and indirectly, stressing this indirectly, so these are those who participate in the supply chains for exporting companies that have exported so far to Russia or Ukraine. What we see at this global European level, mostly now people are calling for some of the already existing instruments of the type of the famous 750 billion euros that have been opened some credit lines, which we haven't seen in Croatia, or felt, so it was a rare instrument used in Croatia. Therefore, the information is that there is still another significant quota of money measured in hundreds of billions of euros and that this could possibly be a framework for aid in terms of the reprogramme of certain loans and the use of certain benefits for companies that need to overcome this crisis in some way and which need time to reorient themselves to other markets. Something similar to what happened in 2014, but then in a much, much smaller, much smaller volume since both conflict and sanctions were somehow I would say not as drastically, publicly present as it is today, with the right because this aggression is truly universal and seeking an answer not only to Ukraine but to the whole I would say civilised and democratic, democratic world. It is precisely in such conditions that the commission is expected, but here I am saying the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which can always approach it autonomously very quickly, will offer a certain package of measures to help these companies. And we, here at least we from the SDP will certainly welcome it, just here and we ask you as representatives of the government to be effective in that segment because time goes by, and people probably feel this problem very intensely, very strongly and we should know where the story goes and what and what I can count on. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98596	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98597	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague, here's only to once again underline what the secretary himself said. This report does not contain a full support analysis. In one part, we have an analysis expressed, but we can hardly read something from this analysis, and we can make some analysis difficult. That is why I asked Mr. Secretary for some information whether he knows them because he always comes here ready for this speaker, but he said that there is no such data in there because the report is being prepared in a different way, or according to EU recommendations. However, who prevents us, who prevents us from making an addendum or an attachment or any other document in which we will have everything we need in order to make analysis and then we can discuss it normally. What we currently see here is how much support is given by one employee or how much support is given to one,... per employee at the level of Croatia, and the support has been given to several hundred entrepreneurs. That information means absolutely nothing to us. What does it mean for you to know how much support is given to a resident when that person doesn't feel it when he doesn't see it? Such data tells us absolutely nothing and fine. If the EU so requests then prepare a report such as that for the EU, prepare a report for us as well, but I ask you for the next time if it is possible for you to prepare a report containing the other information that is relevant to us so that we can draw some conclusions, so that we can make an analysis without it reporting makes no sense. We've talked about it many times, and this is the first time we've seen a report from the Ministry of Finance coming from which we can read almost nothing or very little for the first time. Minister Maric was always transparent, he always made it clear to us here, told us clearly what and how money was shared. We can't see it this time. We know that these are not data related only to the Ministry of Finance, but the report itself says that for these needs a system of information is created in which these data are entered. And if you have an information system we can't even tell anyone when once the data is digitally entered or digitally covered that we can't get that data in any form, even if the report had a thousand pages, give it to us in digital form, give us the tables in digital form, and we'll look at it. Send it to us, you don't even have to send it to CDs, send it to us in mail, put it anywhere, but we need to see it. It was mentioned here that the support was not missed. We don't know if they've been missed because we don't know what the effects are. This report came to the government last November, so a year after the support split came to the government. Did you have time to talk about the effects? In one part that, I agree with the secretary, the effects will probably be long-term, so it is impossible to cover all of this, but what is possible to include, let's include that we can then normally discuss and ultimately act on those entrepreneurs that even farmers who have received all the other support to use these support in relation to which they have actually received them. Someone here said from the ranks of the ruling that here it was said that the support should be abolished, those who said so made a terrible mistake. These support must not be abolished because without these support from our entrepreneurs, our farmers will be completely uncompetitive on the market and not only on the European market, but they will also be uncompetitive on the Croatian market. And again, imports will increase, and our entrepreneurs will fail, especially farmers. Later in my individual speech, I will say something about the support for agriculture. Should we discuss how to change the way in which support is given, how to follow, how to report? I'm sure it is. And that's not the reason and there can be no reason to hide behind the eu recommendations for reporting. Let us not forget that they may be eu recommendations and are related to countries where there are not so many corruptions, in which there is not so much crime. Don't forget that the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property has been arrested as part of an investigation into malfeasance with part of state aid, that the Deputy Prime Minister is under investigation for malfeasance with part of state aid. Therefore, we need these data, we need transparency. He asked a question, whether there was crime and fraud. They're safe, if they weren't gone, there wouldn't be these investigations, there wouldn't be any defendants. But it's only one part, it's just the tip of an ice dream. Transparency is very important to us because we know what's going on. Why is it a problem to state in the report or in addition to the report who received the support, how much did he receive, for what purpose, how much did he receive, what was the purpose? What's interesting is what we find particularly interesting is the write-off of tax obligations. To whom are tax obligations written off, in which amount, what is the 10 largest entrepreneurs to whom these tax obligations are written off? Who's got the interest? That's interesting information we don't have inside and that we can't get to. The secretary said we can send a request to the ministry now, so we might get some answers. The question is whether we will get it, although I must admit what I said before, Minister Maric has always been correct to us and we have always received reports and answers from the ministry regularly and correctly. But we are now too late, if these data were part of this report today, we would talk about these data, and then we wouldn't be guessing, like some colleagues, whether some entrepreneur who cheated on the state and cheated on other entrepreneurs got support or didn't get support, but we would have the right information. Are these support related to the pandemic good? I'm sure they did, but I'm asking if someone after that made control of who got that support? Could entrepreneurs at the time of the pandemic have obtained support for what they were not doing, so after all those possible bans they wrote accounts for those 5, 6 months when it was reportedly impossible for them to work? And it's easy to determine you have more ways to determine that, but no one's been investigating it and no one's interested in it. Has anyone checked in on how many entrepreneurs, when heard, reported this to their employees only when they heard that they were going to get state support and that they were unemployed until then, and then the story is that there was an increase during the pandemic. That's, that's a big problem. And the question that's being asked is the effects and efficiency, who measured them, what he measured, what he got, we don't have and we don't know. All right, I agree with Mr. Secretary, we'll probably get that information later when all the data is available. It's hard to see if there's a favoration in the regions. I'm glad my colleague noticed from the ruling ranks that in one part of the favoration was about culture for Slavonia. Whether it's a real favorite or if it happened by accident we don't know, we can only guess. And if she hadn't asked that question, I would have asked him. So you don't need to look at her I'd ask that question. And is there a favoration for local self-government units? We don't know either. Why? Because he had no record of how much support was received by units of local self-government and for what purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98598	Following the debate, individual debates are the first respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98599	Before I go to the metrics, I need to look back at the situation in the assembly today. We have a debate on granting state aid for 2020. The debate takes place at a time when a minister has already been arrested, and the deputy prime minister is under suspicion that he has made various malfeasances with the allocation of state funds and has favoured certain entrepreneurs. In that situation, out of 16 clubs, we only have a quarter of the clubs that discuss how state funds are spent is an unprecedented shame. And this shame is primarily impenetrable because the opposition here should stand in line to challenge the ruling one whose shift allegedly calls for even early elections and to prove for the sake of this report and on the basis of this report what is wrong with state aid, where all the failures in the system are, and then to have the right as those who prove in practice that they really deserve their national salary to call the ruling for malversions with state aid which are no exception to these ministers but have become standard practice. Should I speak of Josepha Roman today? Should I talk about Dark Horvat today? Do I perhaps look back on the case of Milosevic, who is not yet officially under investigation and ask the question of what is with your favorite coalition partner Milorad Pupovac and his findings which says that I am paraphrasing that it cannot be called members of national minorities because of the dubious allocation of funds because they are only doing their job, so I guess the laws don't apply to them. I don't know where to start sooner when we're talking about the grant of funds related to state support and opposition nowhere. Is it because it counts that this will not be so media-accompanied because we have an opposition meeting together with the rulings over the current Ukrainian crisis. So isn't what the government just wanted, to create an impression of a purely extraordinary state so that all corruption, clientism and everything else falls into another plan. So this way, I will congratulate the opposition, most of the opposition, every honour to those who are here and who have held the debate, which has helped the government in this plan and that the opposition has ignored not only its work but also the key issues that bother Croatia, which is about the corruption that we all like to talk about, but perhaps when the lights of the reflectors are more focused on this parliamentary stage. And now I'm going to look specifically at the report that I'm going to talk about in the final address because I'm missing time for everything I want to highlight, and it's important for this report. First, very specific about the methodology of the report itself. How is it possible that we have a report in which the key issue that we are interested in is certainly who has received state support, and of course we would also like to see how they got them and some kind of monitoring process of who is all consequent and accused of malfeasance with these aids. And in that part of me had a methodology of chaos which is probably because we have no reason to think differently, reason or excuse to mention some, and some to skip. In some parts, you have listed some users of the programme, by no means do you know why only some users of the programme are listed who have received state support, and for some other state support you have all listed. Who decided to pick some, and who skipped this report that should give us all the information on those who got state support? Based on what criteria? Methodology must be transparent for the report to be excessive and could be accepted in the most important and most serious home in Croatia, the Croatian Parliament. The second I find out, here's just a superficial view of those who got these support, you have companies that show up on more of these same support. So you have, for example, companies that are quite well known for some benefits and named several times and with the former mayor connected, the mayor of the capital Milan Bandic, the family Shelendic, who receives one support, so he gets other support, etc. On what criteria and how is that possible? And what is crucial is what I would like to look at, and unfortunately we are running out of time, but that is why I will have the opportunity in the final address is the link between the state subsidy and the financial success of the company, what in Croatia is so much needed to see that we are giving support at all, and we are giving out to Saved companies, not to help market-efficient companies. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98600	Followed by the replicas, the first respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98601	Dear colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you have touched some of the topics important to the economy and I am interested, here I am sure you have seen this in the report that certain funds have also been paid to the company Kresa Friday. And then these money that Kresso Friday received at the expense of his company in Slovenia 9 were used to obtain investment jobs and corruption from President Janaf. Here's what I'm very interested in is how you comment on that in your official report from 2020. is that company and the person that USKOK treats and for corrupt operations so that they got the money with which they then paid the opportunity to get this lucrative job where actually our citizens and entrepreneurs became investors of corrupt operations in Slovenia 9, here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98602	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98603	Yeah, there's a lot of examples like that I've just started by citing some, and I agree that this one may be the most mature one that shows what's going on in the bang with state aids. When mentioned in Croatia, state support does not think that we will do what should be a state aid intensity, which is to develop our own economy by encouraging those entrepreneurs who have not only a good market pass but are potentially useful in the future in terms of making an even greater contribution from the Republic of Croatia. And what we reveal, and even in the official reports, and now the opposition, I repeat, is not in line to challenge the ruling that these are the same names that are included in all possible potentially corrupt and corrupt actions and malfeasances relating to the allocation of state funds is that someone would benefit in private. State support de facto is equal to the HDZ business in which it supports its own an internal clientele. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98604	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98605	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, it is not just the HDZ business, it is also the business of the SDSS and other coalition partners, only to make the matter worse for the most representative Croatian party in the HDZ assembly, HDZ can sometimes end up in prison, and the SDSS obviously cannot, and I find it scandalous that my HDZ colleagues agree. I hear that at the meeting of the ruling coalition Milorad Pupovac, he claimed that the Constitution had actually enabled them to protect the interests of members of national minorities and thus members of the SDSS and then not to be subject to the laws, so we saw that the support had been received, and I said that already, auto-mechanicals from Trpinska cesta, a funeral company from the Hall to the Union, and here HDZ tolerates it. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98606	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98607	Certainly, the HDZ's main foreign exchange is all for the SDSS's voting hand, the SDSS's voting hand for nothing. Not only do the criteria go beyond when we talk about competitions, aids and the rest when these hands are needed to maintain a thin ruling trade coalition that has gained the full meaning of its colloquial name, but even, and that is what I spoke publicly in HS, trades with Croatian citizenship in HS through legal changes in order to achieve the wishes and needs of the most beloved coalition partner, and all of course on the burden of Croatian citizens. Well, that's what the citizens have been choosing, and I hope we'll all come to our senses together until the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98608	Mr. Grmoya, please put on a mask. Nino Rasputic next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98609	The example of Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic and the fact that he has not been arrested, and it is completely unclear why Horvat, not Milosevic, has been arrested, because it is clear that there is evidence that there can affect the investigation of the best speech as far as we came as the state. I will quote to you the exact words you mentioned in Mr. Pupovac's paraphrase, so after the ruling coalition meeting, he said, "With this understanding of the illegal action, the representatives of the national minorities are limited in the performance of their constitutional duties and care for members of the national minorities." So, so far goes that cynicism and shame that Mr. Pupovac directly says that some people in Croatia should not be subject to laws and regulations. So we return to the time before the French Revolution, to feudism we return where there are different stocks in society and with nobility, clergy there are special laws, and special laws will be for the third class or for heaven I don't think any further comment is necessary. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98610	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98611	Yes, by his statement he only confirmed and publicly explained what existed in practice long ago in the Croatian space, which is that there are no laws as unequivocal regulations on paper that all should follow but there is some kind of fairy-tale art of interpretation that is subject to the political will of the ruling structure. And what's worst about it when we talk about Mr. Milosevic is one thing I feel fainting about my own actions. So, the fact that the ministry is being negotiated and received information on which, regardless of the criteria of the tender, it has been supported for its operation so far before the public was publicly called considered normal and that's what Mr. Pupovac is saying, that what we're surprised is that There should be practice, that there are no laws that [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We stick to them like they're drunk, and they're probably well-known to us, and most of all to him. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98612	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98613	Honorable MPs. I don't think you were in that part of the debate when we talked about the report itself and when I asked that question right away in the replicated secretary, so I got the answer that it was actually the eu methodology. However, who is preventing us from being satisfied with the EU or not, adding what is important to us that the data is transparent, that we know what is happening, what is happening and what is happening, who is getting what. We have no idea who got, how much he got, why he got nowhere to write, but we have information about how much money was divided by one employee in the Republic of Croatia, how much money was divided by one resident in the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean to us? And the money's gone who knows who and who knows for what purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98614	I agree with you fellow Pavić and not only that, but it is cynical, and borderline with recklessly to provide us with information that is partly in the mere indication transparent because it refers to all the users of the support that are at least listed, and in the other part by the unknown criterion, there is no fus note here, there is no explanation here, some support users are singled out. No problem is there's no problem if he doesn't want to be burdened with just the report, and I don't see any problems. We have reports from different attorneys and attorneys who are 300 pages large that we have a supplement, an annex with this report, where we will list all the users who have received support, and preferably provide some more detailed information that I do not have to do or anyone else Google and explore who stands behind a particular company. But obviously it's not in their interest, so it's much simpler to give some abstract statistical data. which will cloud the content of the report itself. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98615	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98616	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Selak Rasdic. I understand and respect your style and expression you bilely debate, especially when you crash into the government, the HDZ and the ruling and I have really no objection to that. However, I think you may be calling and calling people lightly, saying that three members of the government are accused and not charged. You're inviting both you and your colleagues from your club to arrest the name and last name of any representatives,... government or people. Namely, in case the opposite of being truly innocent, are you going to apologize as bile as well? Of course you won't, like a lot of people with a media hack who ruined the lives of Herak and Rončević and Polancec and many others, I think that's what we're supposed to do here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98617	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98618	Art. 238th Demeanor of MPs and their intelligence. Will you apologize from Eve Sanader and beyond? Will you apologize if Horvat is convicted by power, if Gabriela Alac is convicted by power? It is clearly said that people against whom investigations can affect witnesses, destroy possible evidence, so it is said, in particular I said why Horvat was arrested and Milosevic was not arrested from the perspective of the interest of the investigation, I do not see any difference in these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98619	This was a replica, so you get a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98620	So I think you asked me a question, and then you gave yourself an answer, so I don't know what the point was. But I really don't envy you when you're in a situation where you have to defend unsuspectingly. I'm not going to ask you if you'll apologize if it proves true that the charges are justified, which was more often the case than what you're trying to create the impression that it is, but will you then take responsibility, but not verbally for what happened and call the early elections that our citizens deserve to respond to all the corruption that HDZ has afforded them? And as for the other appointment of the minister or vice-president of the government, I was very precise, I said one was arrested, and the other was currently not arrested and publicly accused or there are messages that drag him in the whole case, and he never explicitly denied them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98621	Followed by an individual debate by respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98622	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague. In the Annual Report on State aid for 2020, I will refer to the support for employment which is 2020. By way of subsidies granted in the amount of 341 million kuna, which represents an increase of 25.3% compared to 2019. The share of support for employment in the total aid granted in the Republic of Croatia is 1.6%. Support providers for employment in 2020 HZZ was worth nearly 270 million kuna and the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of 73 million kuna. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, Small value support during 2020. They awarded HZZ, the Institute of Arts, the Croatian Defence Ministry and the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Complementary support as part of the employment support has been granted at an amount of € 4.2 million and HZZ is the only provider of training support. I will continue to try to explain how these HZZ-led support funds have been spent specifically. So these funds have been spent and distributed through an active employment policy package containing seven basic employment support measures, training support, self-employment support, education and training, public works, support for job conservation and permanent season. When we define this through persons in the programme of reactive HZZ employment policy during 2020, 23,245 people are involved, and 11,267 men or 48,3% and 11.978 women or 51,7%. The funds were disbursements and users included during 2019, which lasted in 2020 so that during 2020 there were a total of 43,900 users of measures while the previous year was 66,900, which means that the number was smaller for 13.681 persons, and the reason for the reduction was also suspended due to the occurrence of the Covida-19 pandemic and the activation of support measures to preserve jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus from March to May 2020. Therefore, at the same time as this suspension, support was introduced for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus, which concerned employers affected by the negative effects of the pandemic, which were implemented throughout 2020, with certain adjustments to the conditions of subsidisation. The employers submitted requests for support for workers according to the criteria for individual measures and months so that the same employer could submit the application on several occasions. Thus, for 2020, a total of 225,390 employers' requests were received. Supports are thus, support for the preservation of jobs means paid on behalf of 109,431 employers with a total of 697,126 works. All of this was spent or total paid 7 billion 703 million kunas 685 thousand and 673 kunas. In view of the areas of activity of employers who used support to preserve jobs, most of them were in the processing industry's activities, provision of accommodation, preparation and food services, and trade in large and small. These 3 activities used almost 60% of the amount of support. The specificity of the support solution was that the institute in this project implemented a series of innovative digital services that were later and set as standard for all HZZO services. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98623	The first replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98624	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues here would especially like to highlight the support that you have now highlighted in, governments, which are focused on, during the Covid crisis that is aimed at preserving jobs, economies, in general, on the economy and amounting to 11.5 billion. However, it should be noted that they are both continued and that so far is the total amount of 18 billion. In the debate, counterpart Pavić asked whether and how these support is being controlled, whether it is the head of a large employment office and certainly is, and at that time you have information about how and how these aids were being controlled or whether they were used for purpose purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98625	Thank you, colleague Murganić, that, as you said at the beginning, support for the preservation of jobs that were introduced immediately after the announcement of the coronary crisis in the 3rd month 2020 was introduced very quickly and the amounts of support paid in, at the 4th month, for, in the 3rd month. As for the fact that they continued during 2021, they continued in 2020, even now they are one part of the competition is active because employers from certain activities can apply. And as for control, of course it was control because it was control and requires whether employers were entitled to, to grant support, and as well as the execution of those who received these support. Of course, it could not have been possible to hire a person to get support because under the conditions it was clearly defined when she had to be a person of employment and when it had to be registered as an employer carrying out the activity. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98626	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98627	Dear colleagues, when we talk about state aids, unfortunately for all the bad not only the past but also the current experiences, we often talk about malfeasances, and we are waiting for the epilogue of these current processes against your recently current ministers, as well as the current vice-president of the government. In that sense, I would ask you about your interpretation of one of the messages of Anna Mandac, the then assistant minister of the economy, we know that many of the support is related to the Minister of Economy and, in general, to the Ministry of Economy. She says this, Ana Mandac, the minister will strangle me, and Aladrovic gossips about it, don't worry, nothing Lydia will be solved. So here's whether it really is the ministers in HDZ's government who are drowning those who are not ready to benefit from certain interest structures and instead of tendering to grant support or jobs in accordance with some kind of agreement under the grain. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98628	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98629	Thank you, colleague Selak, for asking me for messages, that's probably something you've seen in the media, I've seen too. It only tells me about the level of communication of a person who can even write such a message to his colleague, let alone to the superior. I personally would never write it, and I do not accept such communication because I believe that all of us who work in any job must know and have rules and business correspondence and conversations and that certainly is not an acceptable way of communicating. What I wanted to look at were measures to encourage employment and are precisely about transparency and openness of support to preserve jobs was important that the list of all users was and I still believe that it was published on HZZ's website. So every citizen could open that list and see who and how much money he gets and trust. Yeah, and everybody else needs me that way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98630	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Honored Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98631	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. I'm just going to ask a question here on the public record. Is it inappropriate to send a message that the minister will strangle or put an officer in a position to be his head if he does not agree to malfeasances with support or employment according to the recommendation of a particular minister, and beyond the applicable rules, laws and competitions of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98632	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The next replica is Branka Juričev Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98633	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Pocrnic Radosevic. You based your discussion on support for employment and support for job conservation. I would say that all other support is about their employment and job preservation. For example. Support for tourism in 2020 can be seen to have been significantly lower than in earlier years and it is clear that the Ministry of Tourism could not allocate funds to encourage the success of the private renters' funding programmes, etc. Because it was a pandemic year. But that is why the tourism sector has largely been given the means to preserve jobs because, as we know, the key to success in tourism is that it was very important to keep all these workers and that there were no these support and help from the government that would surely be missing. Please show examples from your county where the same through other support has been preserved jobs and hires... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98634	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98635	Thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Juričev Martinchev. You mentioned support for the preservation of jobs and that we are all aware that they are welcome to all sectors, and I mentioned that just three of the activities most used were among them the provision of accommodation preparation and food service with 19.4% of the total support spent, and this activity includes the largest number of employers from the tourism activities, and they are certainly welcome to keep their workforce, to keep their business and to enter the tourist season in 2020 and 2021. with detained workers and detained employers, so I believe that part of the investment in tourism will continue through the allocation of other support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98636	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98637	Thank you. As counterpart Selak Raspoudic said, I expected this topic to cause much greater interest in the opposition, but in fact, it is now showing what real opposition clubs are here in HS. It's Social Democrats, it's the Homeland Movement, it's the Bridge of this rest, so SDP, and we can't discuss them, I see now after this call from colleague Selak Rasudiæ, a colleague of Kekin quickly reported to Sandra Bencic that the final name of the club instead of warning the public all morning, and also to remind the ruling what they were doing through state support, in which way they were giving money to their grandparents and uncles, that there were no criteria and that in fact, although he said it would not be good to abolish support. I agree that it would not be good if support were granted to those who really deserved it, but if I had a situation for the privileged to receive support then it would be much better to go in the direction of discharge towards our entrepreneurs, moving those unnecessary burdens that they are exposed to in their business than that the state takes all of them's money, and then to those who are close to either HDZ or SDSS, that money is shared, so in that sense I thought it would be better to go into discharge then. Here I was giving a free speech here yesterday and I warned of the fact that the Regional Development Ministry's tender for entrepreneurs in Petrinja was cancelled, although the contest was closed, and the argument was that there were too many applications or that the funds would not be used. And some of these people have invested considerable resources for these small entrepreneurs are considerable funds, I don't know of 20 thousand kunas for project documentation. And I also said in my speech that the new petrin mayor had increased the cut, not increased it, but reintroduced it, and she accused me of lying. So I don't know what the difference is that I said the cut was increased, it wasn't increased, it was reintroduced, and she called me on her facebook page a liar. But what's the problem that these people don't realize is that, she says she needs money to rebuild Petrinja, she needs money to get out of the government because there are now certain sentiments towards Banovina and Petrinja, and the tax isn't coming back, but to abolish it as the City of Sinj did, which has no cut to keep entrepreneurs in Petrinja. And maybe when Petrinja is restored, we know that it's not real now, maybe attract some new entrepreneurs to come work and then live in Petrinja to keep people living there. Here's what we advocate and what's actually a bridge policy is a bigger tax discharge because when the state shares then it usually goes according to these criteria, and if the state took less maybe it would make it easier for our farmers and everyone else. Although I agree that some branches need this kind of support, this kind of support must be just and based on certain criteria. We can see that's not the case here. And this is scandalous, so that we do not now have this situation in Ukraine and this impression of war being created as if we, the war is in Europe, but Croatia thank God is not still at war, trying to produce this artificial state of war so that all these affairs of the ruling fall into another plan, so as not to talk about our real problems, our citizens. It's a rise in food prices, a rise in energy prices, a rise in the price of blue diesel, a repromation which is all a blow to our farmers. We're going to talk about these topics, and here I'm glad we're not the only ones and there are clubs in the assembly that warn you about it. So here are the Social Democrats, the Homeland Movement and all the others who participated in this debate and who were on this important topic of state support present at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98638	The first replica, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98639	Since it is state aid for 2020 and since it is state aid, given the current political domestic situation, this should have been and could have been a debate on the replacement of ministers. It's an early election debate. And while one part of the opposition that loves to call itself and whale with the word opposition, especially progressive opposition fell asleep on this subject do you know who was aware of the point on the agenda? Who took care that this could become a debate about the needed and justified replacement of ministers in the government? Andrej Plenkovic and his team. So this way I will publicly congratulate Andrej Plenkovic for putting his meeting at the same time, distracting media attention and overplaying a part of the opposition that has no right to that name because it was not awake in key topics and at a crucial moment. Someone knew, and someone didn't take care of it, and now there it is. We've got a debate like we've got. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98640	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98641	I agree, I agree that Plenkovic has outplayed part of the opposition with this, but that does not mean that the opposition does not exist. As I said, there are colleagues from other political parties, from other clubs, so if it is not about the parties, and here I think as much as he tried to remove focus from these problems of his government, which includes Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, which includes Minister Aladrovic and Minister Coric, it failed. I hope he doesn't succeed in anything else that is assisted by the SDP and We can, and that's to prevent the debate on the recall of those three government officials, and I hope that if not today then, we will have enough signatures to initiate a debate on the subject and then a meeting in the government won't help him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98642	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98643	Dear comrade Grmoya, we are rightly discussing crime, some ministers have been dragged through prison in just a few weeks, some have been accused, some have been burdened by first associates, documents go public. However, when we clear all this up, I hope that we will get to that day when we will not discuss crime but the very meaning of law and proposal. So when we talk about support in our country, it's still not clear what's going on with the monitoring and valorisation of the long-term support, which results. Whether support is a kind of social assistance or a short-term development incentive so that those receiving it become a healthy business entity and are competitive on the market because we have business entities that have been on support for the whole business life. So what do you call it? When we finally get out of socialism or crowny capitalism, which is now our reality and get a truly free market. So, is support meaningful intervention or means of political control and the creation of addicts Or rewarding your clientele. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98644	May I? So, I absolutely agree, not only do we not have a valorisation of the effects of individual support to see where and in which entities are worth investing and what branches of industry are worth investing in, where agriculture is worth investing in, because we ourselves know that we actually have the throats of cattle being assigned to, and that people are not dealing with at all, and the question is how much, how fictitious it is. So we have these situations, and that's what the people of the field are testifying to. So, there's completely uncontrollably this cattle crashes and crops, and everything else we've had, and the situation in the Neretva Valley, seriously, so people don't really care about it, but they just draw incentives to it. So it's definitely a huge problem and we definitely don't have a market economy, but a crowny capitalism in which a clientele is profiting, and it's not invested where it should be invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98645	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98646	You have touched one important topic, which is entrepreneurship in Croatia. And today, fellow Miletic has also been touched that this money that actually goes to Slovenia 9 for example on company accounts such as Mr. Friday's company is actually missing on the pages, let's say, HAMAG micro where entrepreneurs, when they want to apply for certain loans for certain guarantees, is a message to them that since 2020 they have simply been suspended from paying to all entrepreneurs both micro, so small, so medium, but on the other hand, we see that this money through the alternative Ministry of Finance as the Slovenian 9 does come to certain entrepreneurs as of Friday, so Milosevic is also the director of Pupovac. So that money comes back to... and people and citizens, so entrepreneurs registered, unfortunately, simply here are not able to reach the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98647	Well, I don't think it matters at all what it says on which page, it's important that you're on Pupovec's list. So if you get to that Pupovec list that originally had, what, 14 companies, then it's down to 7 because it couldn't go through, then you'll get, so no notice on any website is necessary. Well, I often have a situation at home that the woman who graduated in 2006 tells me and can't possibly get a full cell in her profession, says she's going to join the SDSS to get it, I'm asking her, so if you don't join the HDZ, she says it's a small bar full of crocodiles, in the SDSS it's easier to get through this list of six. So here, I don't know, if they get the title somewhere that Grmoya's wife joined the SDSS, don't be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98648	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98649	Your Honor, you mentioned this meeting in the government, I hope that regardless of the topics that are in the government, that the public interest and the interest of the media will be precisely for this debate, given that it is 12% of the state budget. It's not about one kuna. It's about 12% of the state budget. So that's not a little bit. And secondly, I'd just like to correct you, I said I did for support, and I think we need to give support, but we need to be transparent, we need to change the methodology of granting support, monitoring support, reporting on these support because this kind of reporting doesn't make sense. We need to learn something after each report, if we haven't learned anything from the report, if we don't have a checkpoint after that, that kind of reporting doesn't make sense. And we don't know anything after this report. And we didn't learn anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98650	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98651	I couldn't agree more, my colleague Pavic, and I realized what you wanted to say about the support, and I don't mind the support especially if they are, and this was said by my colleague Rasudiæ valorised, if we know what the effect of these support is, if they are granted on the basis of criteria, if they were granted, if it is considered where Croatia should be invested, what is the general benefit of the whole society. So we have absolutely the same attitude here. But if such a case is not, and we see that it is not, that support is given in such a way that you have to be on a certain list, on a particular list, then it is a question of the meaning of such support and whether it is better to go into certain discharges in order to encourage business and start business.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98652	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98653	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's another little review of this report from a slightly different point of view. In fact, first of all, I would refer to the comments of my colleague that I said that there was no control and that if the controls were actually there, that was the answer that the controls existed, so the control that was at the Employment Office was one control and the control that was to be carried out on the ground was another control. I'm afraid the inspection services didn't carry out that control, or they didn't carry out the inspection, and that's why some were hunting in the blurry. I don't want to talk about companies that did this, allegedly worked to know exactly, if I were sure 100%, I would have told you they were working and I would have reported them, however, they were just indications from those who were familiar with the situation in these companies, so that they wouldn't talk about it anymore, I hope that in the observed period when any support is granted will be both different control and different supervision. I'm going to look back a little bit on the support in agriculture and draw attention to what's going on with our little farmers, the O.P.G. A large number of OPGs received concessions over the country, on a state-owned country. They also adjusted the production of milk to these quantities of land. After that, large "players" come to the same territory and lose the right to land, and in the next period small OPGs no longer receive concessions over that land. What's going on with that O.P.G.? They took the loans, they took the debt, they took some of them, and they took the support that was naive and then, maybe some don't fail, but most of them fail. What's going on with people? We saw from the example of Slavonia when the minister told this speaker that 70,000 people had been invested in Slavonia in 3 years, 20 billion kuna, while 70,000 people were evicted. They did not move out because they enjoyed it rather than because they could no longer function. Let me give you another example. The conditions for support in agriculture are dependent on the types of support they have received. If you are taking support or compensation for a hectare of arable surface, it is approximately 3,000 per hectare. If you take cattle, so you take for a cow that gives milk means for dairy cows, it's about 2500 kuna per cow. Now, if you take any further support, these support is non-refundable, there's no problem, but if you take the support you commit to having the same number of cattle in stables, for example. That we speak 30 cows, then the farmer must have those cows after five years and during those five years in his barn. And what's going on? Unfortunately, when cows are calf, they're not always female, there's male, so they have to be sold, and now we're having trouble because they have to buy heifers that are from imports, and if you ask a little bit of questions at the Veterinary College, then those heifers in the barn make chaos. Why? Because others get sick, other cattle that are in that barn, and that's a mass phenomenon in Croatia. Why? Because it takes three years. that such livestock is adapted to the conditions of life in Croatia, means 3 generations, 3 generations after that it is only dark and now imagine where the situation is where farmers who can't take the incentive, they need to, they want to expand, they're not sure if they'll get the concession again in the next period for land they've already received from the state, they don't know if they can expand production, and my people know that the future of agriculture rests on them, they're all big failed, they're all big, they're combined or they're passed into other people's hands, and now we have problems with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98654	The first replica of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98655	Dear counterpart Pavić, in conclusion of the 2020 report We can find a very interesting finding. It says that this report points to the fact that the support providers have granted most of the support on the basis of approved support programmes, with less and less support being granted on an ad hoc basis to individual users. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. I don't know how you're interpreting this, but I read the next one out of this. First, there is and publicly documented discretionary authority of the support provider which continues to exist although to a lesser extent and the possibility of ad hoc allocation to individual users in the Republic of Croatia with all the malversions we have, how do you interpret it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98656	So I can just move on to that part of my debate about where I think it is, where I said that I believe there must be support, that we must provide support, even more so if I am asked to provide greater support, but procedures, procedures, way of providing support, afterwards monitoring the use of these support, afterwards reporting on these support must be transparent. In fact, we have investigations, here are some ministers under investigation precisely because of these aids, because of the rights they used to give support to someone. I don't think at all, I'm not the one who's going to judge them and I don't think they might have even been malicious, but obviously something wasn't right, they were wrong somewhere. Why did they make a mistake? Because they had too much freedom. If that freedom was a little limited by the regulations that they had to follow some kind of procedure then it would not have happened, then we would have a completely different situation in Croatia and then each of those seeking support would know what to expect after winning that support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98657	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98658	Thank you. Dear colleague, in your presentation in front of the club you mentioned, you expressed doubts about the transparency of the grant of support where you openly insinuate that individuals hired to use measures for them. When you already mention specific examples, which were related to support for job conservation, then you might do well to read the implementing instructions where the conditions are written, when persons were to be employed, when employers were to be registered and all the other conditions needed to obtain the necessary support. So it wasn't her hand and hat she was handing out, but they were dividing according to specific criteria. In this way you underestimate 500 employees of the Employment Service who have been on a daily basis for 2 years. they are working on, on the documentation, collecting it, and they are also seeking returns if it is established that there has been an irregularity in the course of implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98659	I'm glad you said this last sentence, so you're looking for a return if there's an irregularity, so they're still in control. Don't tell me I haven't read anything because I read it in very detail and I know the rules very well, believe me, much better, much better than many, that I said it in my debate on behalf of the club I said and I stand behind it. I also said earlier in my debate that I was sure of those names and names of companies that were mentioned by some of the people we talked to, many people, not some but many of the people we talked to, how they were done and what they were doing and what kind of workers were receiving support and then returning them to the owners. If the inspection had been on the ground, it would have been different, and then the worker would have gotten his money. After all, I ask you why you gave money to the owner, not to the worker directly, where the problem was, but first it had to be paid to the employer, the employer to the worker, and then the worker returns the job to the employer again, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98660	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98661	Thank you. Here, dear colleague, as you are now and as president of the Labour and Pension System Committee, I think you'll have to go a little deeper into that topic and I'd really like to see your model of payments that the state pays workers paid past the employers in which they are employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98662	Those aren't salaries that are fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98663	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98664	Believe me, that this model does not exist and does not conform to any positive regulation in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98665	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98666	Dear counterpart Pavić, I agree with everything you've been saying, but what you should bear in mind is that the way the support policy has been so far seems to be doing more harm than good in the medium term because if we take an example of agriculture, one twisted logic arises where instead of the support policy follows the state of economic reality and recognises what Croatia's strategic interest was economically demographic and occasionally gives guarantees to certain economic operators happened vice versa, which is that we have support hunters and that instead of the support structure following the economic reality and needs, that the growing economic reality begins to follow the support structure and adapt to it, which is a very dangerous phenomenon and already extremely harmful in the medium term. So we need a complete change in the paradigm of thinking and design, above all to valorize the results of the support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98667	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98668	That's right. Without that, we simply cannot discuss the support and whether it makes sense if there is no real valorisation control of the analysis of what has been achieved. We just can't answer that. We heard here how much money individuals got from the state of pasture in Dalmatia. The effect of zero. Zero. How much money did they get for a large number of cattle per system one cow-one calf? Huge amounts. What happened? We still have imports from abroad. Have we become independent? Have we become self-sufficient? We didn't. But when we talk about problems, then we're called out not to know the problem, then we're told we don't know, we haven't read it. But it doesn't lead anywhere. Let’s just start with being self - critical and then criticizing others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98669	Time. The next replica is the respected representative Marina Opaček Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98670	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, it's a good thing you mentioned what I actually asked the opening secretary of state, and I didn't get the answer, but I believe there's going to be an opportunity, that Mr. Secretary of State will take the final word. You mentioned actually control and all subsequent monitoring of the allocations. So, specifically in agriculture, you mentioned what this example is where someone takes the incentive so in a year, there is no more land and here I agree with you that we really need to monitor to a greater extent whether these allocations create new values or just stagnating. So here's an additional comment of yours, can we actually do more as a state in that subsequent follow-up analysis, do the assigneds create the right values? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98671	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98672	Thank you, colleague. Let me just point out, I've been 28 years, I've worked 28 years to build information systems for this country, and we know how many registers there are, I know what data we have. If these data are regularly updated, if they are regularly entered, if they are not then... Analysis, I really don't know, I can't know because I'm not in a position to allow it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can ask a question right now, so I get an answer, but that doesn't mean anything to me. AL if all those registers we've set up, for which we've given big money over 30 years of independence, if we only maintain them, then we can get all that data and we can get concrete analysis. And we can't say that we couldn't get today's analysis from any excel plate, from any database with one simple query if there's an information system in which it all writes. And that was said and it even says in the report that it exists. And after that, we get a report that's absolutely unreadable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98673	Time. Following the final debate, the first was on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98674	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Finance developed the Annual Report on State aid in the field of the Republic of Croatia under discussion, based on the information provided by the support providers entered in the Register of State aid and small-value support by July 2021. For the accuracy and credibility of the support entered in the register, the support providers who are obliged to enter the support information immediately after the award are solely responsible. The report for 2020 indicates the fact that the support providers granted most of the support on the basis of the approved programmes and the less and less support granted to... As a general rule, individual users also refer to small value support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is also good because it grants support to the basis of the programme contributes to transparency and to the reduction of discretion of the support providers. It is still necessary to insist on such an assignment and to focus on the development of the support programme and only exceptionally on the allocation of individual support, as only in this way can the Republic of Croatia, in the future, in other EU Member States, in terms of the share of support in GDP and support structures, which will be dominated by horizontal support, support for horizontal objectives and regional development towards sectoral support. This report shows the continued growth of the aid granted so that the total amount of support for agriculture and fisheries is 36.4% while the industry and services sector accounts for 63.6%. In 2020, it was recorded for the first time and supported the economy in the COVID-19 pandemic, representing 7.8% of all aid granted. Similarly, after several years, support for the development of a wide-ranging internet has been re-allocated, which is significant, while it is growing to a much smaller extent than sectoral support. Within sectoral support, there is a growth of support for environmental protection and energy conservation, support for the transport sector and support for the rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty while less support has been granted to postal services, shipbuilding, public, radio and television broadcasting services and the tourism sector. Within the horizontal support, including regional support and support at local level allocated during the year in question in 2020, regional aid, local support, R & D and innovation support, support for SMEs, culture and employment, while only less support for improvement is granted. A large number of entrepreneurs were also granted support to curb the negative effects of the pandemic, and the Republic of Croatia benefited from different forms of support, relying largely on the instruments of so-called ‘T’. guarantee schemes based on guarantees from HBOR, HAMAG, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Culture and Media, Ministry of Tourism and Sports. In this way, Croatian entrepreneurs have been given the possibility of easier access to financial resources with the aim of reducing liquidity difficulties and maintaining business in a very turbulent environment. Taking into account this report and a brief review of recent developments at the moment, it can be argued that the next periods will be characterized by the increased intensity of the support allocation and until recovery of the EU economies. The future period is also a kind of opportunity in which through a state support policy, a system that will ultimately have a positive impact on the Croatian economy can be significantly structured. Following that above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support that annual State aid report for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98675	Next, a final debate will follow on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98676	This is also the official day when the progressive opposition became so progressive that it started acting as a government, so she decided to skip the debate on state aids that could be incriminating for the current government or current ministers and vice-presidents of the government. I congratulate them on this, as I congratulate Prime Minister Plenkovic for trying to distract the public from this extremely important debate about how our money is spent and how it is appropriate for certain individuals to spend the same money. But I will also mention that there are those who are opposition and who are awake and in this debate, and all that is followed by any man on television and who will contribute not only in constructive and justified criticism of the way this report is allocated but there are those who are willing to learn, I have personally studied a doctoral work on the subject of granting state support and here, based on research that a girl had to carry out on granting state aid from 2005 to 2015. address key conclusions on what should be improved in the Republic of Croatia in granting state aid on the basis of a scientific methodology to justify both their allocation and to make them effective. So, what is crucial is the problem that there is still no consistent and long-term sustainable industrial policy that promotes the growth of competitive and marketable enterprises, and to the greatest extent implemented by subsidies around 70%, guarantees around 18%, while tax exemptions, tax exemptions, contributions and reliefs are more used in the EU, and that is the way Croatia should go. This could be achieved by further intensively quoting subsidies to horizontal objectives, but to small and medium-sized enterprises, and by monitoring the effectiveness of the subsidies allocated. The results of the Ph.D. survey in question on state subsidies and financial success of companies in the Republic of Croatia have shown and confirmed that the state subsidy policies so far have not resulted in results, particularly in specific groups of entrepreneurs, and that by measuring the effects of state aid, they could contribute to the structure of the optimal State aid policy and subsidies to sectoral belonging, size and form of corporate ownership. The study also showed that the share of subsidies is very important, in the total revenues of entrepreneurs in the correlation with a particular sectoral belonging, and that these sectors are also the biggest problems, they generate fewer income from regular business, they are mostly state-owned enterprises or owned units of local and regional self-government. The survey showed that about 40% of subsidies, a 10-year grant of support was paid to transport, storage and telecommunications activities in which public enterprises as Croatian railways are, we know how successful they are, Jadrolinija and Croatia airlines. What can be concluded is that the state overly supports public enterprises, but where is the problem? The aim is not to improve the services of public enterprises but to delay the restructuring of these companies that are leading to imminent and painful cuts, almost half of the total subsidies allocated was to save public enterprises, and state support is to achieve and perhaps an unfair market advantage for those who have been assigned to have growth in the economy, rather than to save the losers. What we spend our money on and spin around in a vicious cycle of losses and make it impossible for Croatia's economy to grow. So I'll repeat again, there are those who are willing to work in HS and there are those who are willing to read, learn and offer suggestions on how to improve the state support system, but also justifiably criticise their current assignment. When early elections come, and elections will come there are those who will be willing to offer policies much better than these so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98677	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98678	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out in terms of this report, as well as other reports that address the way public funds are distributed and allocated, and this report lacks an analysis of the impact and distribution of such funds. So we don't know what we've achieved and we don't have it in this report, we know how much of what's distributed, how many sectors, how much local level is also funding but we don't know what we're accomplishing. And we don't understand at all why we would go into reforming that system if we didn't know what we're doing in this way that we're doing now. I will concentrate today on support in agriculture, but first of all, I want to say one thing on what my colleague Selak was saying. In certain sectors, in certain sectors such as the public service sector, in particular public transport, without public subsidies, there is no such sector. So he doesn't exist. that is, if citizens were to pay a commercial public transport price, then no public transport would be used. I'll give you one example. The policy of abolishing subsidies for public transport in rural areas has led to this and leaving that market, there they left it to the market in many rural parts of Croatia, leading to people not having any public transport, none, but that what is paid to privates is more than to establish any form of public transport. So simply some sectors without public support can't do it in Croatia either, so it's across the EU, all over the world, so it's known that certain sectors without public subsidisation cannot survive. However, the way funds are allocated, for example, in the area of agriculture, is devastating for us, is fatal for agriculture and is fatal for the food policy that the note does not have. So, every year, they break spears about whether it's the system that suits the biggest companies and whether it's also the most just, especially when it comes to direct payments, which are payments in agriculture that provide support on the surface and related support to livestock and warehousing. Nearly 1/3 of those payments in 2020 totalled 7 billion kunas received 6.5% of the largest economies. So let's do it again. In 2020, therefore, we allocated funds to agriculture in such a way that 20 agricultural holdings in Croatia received on average 546 times more support than the average agricultural holding and nearly 70,000 agricultural holdings did not receive any support. And how's the scheme going? Certain privileged agricultural holdings or industries are leased large quantities of state land, many do not even pay that lease, and they receive direct payments on the land of agriculture and land. So here's how I'm going to tell you that, for example, in 2020, Belje plus, therefore, within Fortenovo or specifically owned by almost 51% of Russian banks, from EU funds and the national budget, received a total of 108 million kuna support. 108 million kuna. After that goes Novi Agrar d.o.o., Vupik plus, 32 million kuna. So, we're supporting the big food industry in foreign-owned food production from the national budget while at the same time, yesterday I met two young people who came back from Canada and started the OPG here, who can't get any support because they were too small, then they called for young farmers but you were late for the competition, and then they got out of there two years after they started it, you were late with the competition because your minister was arrested and had to move in three weeks of competition, in one day, and in one day, they got away from that support, the question of whether or not they would get it, they're a little too big and they're never going to make it to the green branch. At the same time, all those around them who have received the state country, who are, of course, friends of the HDZ and who receive millions of support and do not produce anything or effect, and production is none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98679	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98680	Art. In 238, therefore, no one has said that public enterprises need not be helped, but there is a difference between the aid in terms of the allocation of funds and the rescue of the loss of public enterprises that serve only the departments of their necessary restructuring. It's a bottomless hole and it's a waste of money. A colleague of Bencic's around public transport will keep my word when it's on the agenda to collect Zet's tickets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98681	This was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. And a final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98682	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, secretary. Here's another speaker colleague who confirmed what I said earlier, which is that it's questionable what and how with the support. And that's very questionable. If someone gets 500 times as much support as the average agricultural economy, I say in agriculture, it's really sad. And then what else turns out? We were already talking about this precisely these figures we had once been there, when we talked about that it was just Vupik plus and Belje plus, that they got a lot of money, that they weren't in Croatian property, that they were getting support to do what they wanted, whatever they wanted, whenever they wanted and sold their products wherever they wanted. The question is whether it is the purpose of support in the Republic of Croatia. Is the point of helping big ones who do what they want and how they want to do it or the point of helping small farmers, small farms that really feed us and feed us. Is the point of helping them place their products on our market, to get that product to our table as soon as possible. That's what we talked about the other day when we had a food debate. Therefore, we need to take care of all this, and we need to help our farmers in the right way. These figures are really impressive, when you look at 20 billion kunas is divided, it's a lot of money, it's 12% of the state budget, but where that money went, as it's spent, I've already talked about it in my debate before, I mentioned one part. We have so many inflation systems, we collect so much data that it's something amazing. We've spent money on informing billions of kunas, billions of kunas we've spent on information, and today we can't get a meaningful report based on which we could get some kind of, we could make some meaningful conclusions. And what I was saying before, if we can't conclude anything on the basis of the report, we can't learn anything, then that report just doesn't make sense. So I appeal to the esteemed secretary if it's not a problem, please send us an add-on with these analyses as much as it's assigned to which entrepreneur, how much it's assigned to the agricultural holding, how much it's assigned to the counties, how much it's assigned by JLS, why does that, does it make sense that somewhere there's no support for something that doesn't have survival, which is run by a policy, where the direction is directed by an area or by a particular region or by a local self-government, is there any such policy? If there is, so let's go there and direct our support, if we're sharing it with a hat and a hand, then there's no point in sharing it, and then we can't find out who got what, or we can't, not that we can't get it, but to get that data, you need to search the data on 10th, 20th, 50th sites where there are some tables, then add it up and subtract it to get some data, and that's actually the meaning of this report. In this report, everything should have been contained. If it can't because of the EU methodology, then there's another way to do it, which is some kind of supplement, some annex to that report. And now the secretary says we can get that information if we ask a representative question. We can, but that question or that information will be available to me afterwards, not to all of us. We should talk about that information. We should then reach a conclusion of people watch support for a particular branch make sense in Međimurje, but they have no meaning in the Face and vice versa, and based on this report we cannot conclude absolutely nothing, but we have information about how much money is divided by one employee and how much money is divided by one resident in the Republic. Now, that means a lot to us, so we've got information that we can actually come up with conclusions that will help us make quality support decisions next time. I urge you to either supplement that report or to provide us with some other information, or if you don't otherwise, we'll ask a representative's question, so please give us that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98683	On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98684	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Otherwise, when I have a final debate here and for this speaker, I always have a number of debates about the portfolios that belong to the Ministry of Finance, this is, unfortunately, a far more resources that we represent here in terms of statistical examination, and then I'm just going to try to look back on what is really in our intelligence. Alone, but I can only take a brief look at a couple of questions raised here and ask questions and therefore absolutely we can agree that the meaning and purpose of the support itself is not something which is a priority bad, which, something you should not and it is something that is as a sort of... Both present in the EU and around the world. [[You don't understand a word.]] What is important, and we can also agree on how we use it, and with what effect is the objective of the support is certainly to support the economy itself, but that there is no distortion of competition. Clear criteria should and should exist according to anyone who sets up programmes when we talk about their discretions, that is precisely when we talk about the criteria for the schedule for the allocation of certain support. There is also a obligation to submit the same reports for each award of public money. This way, absolutely every body responsible for the allocation of certain funds through different types of support, as or category as we have spoken to any sectoral, whether it is regional or JLS, whether it is the horizontal ones that are the most desirable and we in this report have led them to collect a report for each publicly spent money, for each kuna of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have gone with a specific objective and to be valorised further on the basis of these acquired data, is considering further regulation of further programmes. It is in the ingenuity of every one who brings it and it is something that we can all agree that should be so and now as to the methodology of their publication on their site that is what should be brought and explained by each body that he has called to bring in and explain in the adoption of a new programme or the repetition of the old why he brings it, for which purpose, and always is. There's something we can do. As far as this part is concerned, there have now been more mentions during the debate and from the esteemed Greek representative about some current topics, inflation, energy crisis, we have certainly acted in due time by the Ministry of Finance, and when the issue of Sberbanka is not the situation in Austria, it is not the situation in Hungary, so now the mentioned Đuro Đaković thermal power plants, among the first we have come out, we have found solutions that the company can continue business with... the application of all senses of measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also a new problem of energy solution, which is why we, like the government, have come up with the measures that will actually be and are at the stage of one.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... So a temporary, temporary framework which is on the trail of exactly what we have done. All this is going to be part of the support this year, it was part of last year's support and Covid and this energy crisis and that's what the support routes are. So, when everybody yells at the state, jumps in, generally happens to say the state shares everything and everything. We can't always have each other, but we need to know exactly why, how, and where. Now, we're coming to this part of what Commissioner Opačak Bilic said as well. We will try at Ministry level to ask all implementing bodies to supply certain data and parallel, given that this really is an EU methodology and that we must not have derogations because they must compete and compete with the rest of the EU to further have a list of all those who have achieved any kuna from public money, publish it on the link, on our page and in the report. By certain criteria, see how much the system allows us, if we do not complete it separately to get that additional information. I do not see that personally any problem to do this although you must know that there will be thousands if this is not only here as mentioned in the material, the companies in this material are listed, especially those relating to de minimis, but they also enter through HABOR and through HAMAG and through a number of other measures that we have said that go in support and subsidy instruments and forgiveness of certain tax activities and loans and guarantees and ultimately by investing in equity. Some that are perceived as being issued in 2010, 2013, so that will be thousands. So I'm just asking you not to say that by burying thousands of teams, we want to hide someone who just won this year. It's just, did it happen, so the division itself can't even get into what, where, neither in the ownership structures nor in the reasons, that's what individual bodies do when they're dissipating the program, they write down the criteria by which the criteria are the same assignment. So I say I personally don't see that problem, but then we have some other repercussions, but the day we're out here now with 7, 8, 9, 10, 15 thousand different company names I don't know how many of those woods could figure out a few trees. As for some of the individual others, the smaller I say, I can't, I don't know, or I'm directed to certain resors why and how they were assigned. Certainly the goal must be specified when calling each program, must be clearly elaborated, what is the method, what is the goal and what... We want every program and support and we just tell them whether they're individual. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] And that means when you have a confidential company which is the interest of the state or when horizontal means are equal for all available or if sectoral ones are again in certain parts. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98685	We have one replica, respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98686	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State is clear that you have made this report based on the entry into the register, and the data are being entered in the register by the bodies that are providing support. So this is 21 billion kuna in 2020 and allocated from different sources and different levels from ministries, cities, municipalities, counties. And of course the biggest, what is most mentioned today is this transparency and way of assigning, so maybe it wouldn't be bad to listen to suggestions and try the next report and put on which employers they were, and especially what programs they were. And you should ask the support providers to make it clear and clear to everyone what employers have received because this way, too, when 500 employers have been given in some measures, and a dozen of them are written in this report, which puts them in an unfavourable position because there are many more who have received these support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98687	I appreciate that, just...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98688	Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98689	Here, I'd just like to thank both my colleague and the esteemed secretary for accepting our suggestions. To do that, an analysis, to get it delivered to us and what I say can be and in electronic form is not at all a problem just so we can do an analysis on that data. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98690	Okay, that was an injury. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98691	Thank you, this is Benign this breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, yes, of course, first of all, we need to talk about the complication here. That data is all there is. They've already been made public. Each body shall publish on its website and, in carrying out the call for tenders and the results of tenders and with clear objectives and all those methodologies to be taken into account in the evaluation and allocation of all funds. Here we're saying that it's simply compiled in one place. We can simply add it together and all of these links, for all of the posts put under one cap maybe right here with the register itself who doesn't recognize that way even though I say we have again, we're going to go into one danger of data forest that we're not going to be able to clearly figure out again, and on that side we're going to see how we're going to try it methodologically. What I would like to conclude is that we have to be careful that thousands and thousands of those who have earned a certain, fairly, have done something that does not fall under any doubt over perhaps some few exceptions that have been... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u98692	The time, I thank the Secretary of State, we've exhausted this debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83132	The next statement on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected advocates of the Marine Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83133	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here in view of the large number of employees in Đuro Đaković TEP, who are in great uncertainty these days and who have actually addressed a good part of them, I will address today the business of the company, Đuro Đaković, the thermal power plant of Slavonski Boda, which we know has great importance for our town and for the county of Slavonski Brod and Posaviska, where it is currently employed more than 870 people while working through it and working even more than 150 cooperatives and external employees. Namely, the company is one of the few that can be classified as respectable and certainly is the leader in its brand, in the production of boiler and power plants equipment, and with revenues of more than 500 million kuna in 2020 was the largest company in the county. In fact, even though our citizens are operating in the company, the company is operating and making its income exclusively in the EU area. A Russian owner stands behind the company and is currently under sanctions in line with the Russian aggression on Ukraine. In fact, some sort of solution has been announced for days, but we still haven't. We know, of course, that the government and the minister themselves have engaged and devoted themselves to finding a solution that further business and payouts would not be questionable, and here I thank you on behalf of all those whose existence of this depends but I still urge that these measures come out as soon as possible and that we actually calm down employees because we still do not have concrete information about the outcome of the situation. And they've been announced, here all week long they've been announcing that every day will be here today tomorrow, even yesterday we heard here in the assembly from the minister that they will be announced during yesterday, but here's the news today, even today they're still gone. In fact, we all hope that ultimately, the company will succeed in separating business from ownership issues because the company, as I said, acts as a European tax payer here, here employs workers, it is a liquid company that has so far done positive business and it can indeed and must continue to function without blocked accounts and must be allowed to continue its business and to carry out its obligations. Like I said, it's almost 1,000 employees, it's 1,000 related families, so over 3,000 fates. It is a large, large number, significant for both Slavonski Brod and the county, in general for Croatia and it is necessary to react without delay to these people as soon as possible to give information about the agreed measures and simply here to ease their uncertainty and not only theirs but also the uncertainty of business partners. The situation in Ukraine, of course, is that for every conviction and we from the Social Democrats Club, we support all sanctions agreed at EU level, which are directed towards the aggressor. However, as we also give support to sanctions, we also point to extremely important business entities whose economic activity is dependent on a large number of Croatian citizens who deserve security, deserve to pay their fair wages and do not deserve the uncertainty that brings them a new month. Here, I call on all fellow representatives from our county to jointly point out the need to find an accelerated solution for the further business of Đuro Đaković thermal power plant and to appeal to Minister Marić and the government as soon as possible to offer solutions that are in agreement with the EU institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83134	Ante Prinkin... Okay. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] We will continue the session on Wednesday, March 23rd at 9:30 p.m. by taking the club's position. Have a nice rest of the day and a weekend. Session interrupted at 12.37 hours. The following is the statement of view on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representative Mariana.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83215	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will read here today an open letter to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister of Science Radovan Fuchs, HS sent to esteemed Croatian scientists, 69 of them, to discuss the Law on the Croatian Foundation. During the debate, a number of inaccuracies about the work of the foundation were presented, which prompted them to address because it was said that the work of the foundation was burdened with conflict of interest, biased evaluation, inability to object, the absence of final reports, and poor flexibility. I'm quoting their letter right here. We participated in the Foundation's work as independent experts in evaluation panels in certain fields of science, where the main tasks of the panel were the evaluation of project proposals and ensuring the implementation of their evaluation. Our work in panels was voluntary, each panelist published a significant number of scientific papers quoted in the most relevant scientific bases, so the panels were formed by prominent Croatian scientists and based on their scientific achievements. Many of us are winners of state awards for science and other highest national awards, most of us have spent many years perfecting prestigious institutions abroad such as Harvard University, Max Planck Institute and so on, and we are well directed to international standards and the way science works in the best systems. Also many of us as reviewers and panelists have worked for prominent international institutions such as... and others, they evaluated the projects of the most prestigious European programmes such as Horizon 20, 20 and so on. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We became members of the Foundation's panel after our projects were successfully evaluated, so we got to know the procedure both as project applicants and as panelists. Since we participated and participated in the work of the foundation, we need to react to the inaccuracies presented during the parliamentary debate. Due to the limited time we're going to make their remarks on the subject of biased evaluation. According to projects received, panelists who were not in conflict of interest assessed the scientific quality of the applicant and its project. The panels were dependent on the scientific field and up to 10 experts from the relevant scientific fields. Reporters of projects were assessed primarily by published scientific publications i.e. by the quality of the journals in which they published works and the contribution of the promoters to these works. The decision to refer to the review and adoption and was made on the basis of the scientific excellence of the candidates and the project proposal. Each panelist proposed two or more potential international reviewers for the lack of response by international reviewers who could not be agreed on to review applications for reviewing was sent to several experts, the first two results were the basis for the adoption of a project financing recommendation. When cross-examination of international experts was obtained before the panel's decision, an additional third reviewer was requested. Such reviewing is common in similar international institutions, and respects the most scientific standards. The proposal for a new Foundation Act introduces systematic changes in the functioning of the foundation, which violates the independence of a key institution that finances Croatian science from the executive authority. The independence from politics, however, is the basic principle of the functioning of similar foundations in the most developed countries. We believe that members of the Management Board, as so far, should be appointed to the Assembly on the proposal of key scientific institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The appointment should be according to the criteria of scientific excellence that apply to the world's most developed countries, and this is not precisely worked out in the new bill. In the parliamentary debate, we were particularly concerned about a statement that did not necessarily require an international review of the proposals for all projects. This would mean the introduction of extremely poor practices that should certainly be avoided because it could be an introduction to the non-transparency of the allocation of funding for science in the Republic of Croatia. We therefore call on you to ensure that the new Foundation Act ensures the independence and continuity of the operation of the Foundation without political influence and thus ensuring that members of the Management Board and all expert bodies of the Foundation are chosen exclusively according to the high criteria of scientific excellence by applying the standards of the most developed countries. And secondly, maintaining international project review as a mandatory part of the selection process. The new bill that puts the work of the foundation under the control of politics, and the criteria of scientific excellence in the selection of professional bodies do not clearly mention it means a big step back so we appeal not to take a step. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83357	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Honored Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83358	My colleagues and colleagues, everything that happens around us every day confirms that we're living in for smart times. Time of absurdity and paradox. Can you believe a month ago the main character of our absurde says we can plant on eyelashes and he won't replace any of his ministers and then two days later the minister ends up in jail? Can you believe that in the midst of the war of Russia and Ukraine, one of Ukraine's most globular supporters puts the image minister in place up to the asphyxiation of suspected Russian capital? So after 2 years after the earthquake nothing was done in Zagreb or in Banovina, for the minister of construction puts a character who has failed to launch from the dead point his own project... about which is now a note of bene, in an indecisive conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you believe the other minister at school crime level when they steal his kids' test classes and get used to it, adjusts around employment? Do you have any idea that in 2022, his closest partner, the notoral HDZ Eastern rite, said openly and shamelessly that his people should not be subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, defending the Deputy Prime Minister for whom it is not clear why he was not immediately arrested in a package with the Minister of Construction? Can you believe that a Soviet MiG-sized aircraft flies over three NATO pact members without any reaction and falls on the main city of NATO and the EU and that the first government's reaction comes only after 12 hours, saying that it was only an incident the same for which the mention of the egg is a serious terrorist threat, and to change the story afterwards. Can you believe that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence are outsmarting and taking pictures of the hole formed by the aircraft, and only a few hours later, the first pavilion of the nearby dormitory is being evacuated and reported to the public that the aircraft was carrying explosives? Can you believe that NATO Secretary General said three days ago that the drone fell outside Zagreb and didn't carry explosives, that our prime minister at a lightning-provoked press conference would have denied it about explosives, but not about the claim that Dom Stjepan Radic was outside Zagreb? Can you believe that because of all this, no one has resigned and no one has responded? No wonder in times preceding world wars, there was an avant-garde for intelligent poetry and poetic absurds because how else do you relate to the mental reality around us? So here's a dedication to Danil Harms, I'm going to paraphrase him in the Croatian context of 2022 like this. It was hard to say anything about Banozic to anyone who knew nothing about him. Banozic is a great defence minister. Napoleon is much smaller than Banozic, Bizmark is compared to Banozic's cat cough, and Jelačić, Borojevic and Gotovina are simply zero compared to Banozic, and all other people are zero compared to Banozic, only compared to Plenkovic is zero. So I better tell you something about Plenkovic than I'm talking about Banozic, but Plenkovic is so big that there's nothing to talk about him and that's why I'm still going to talk about Banozic, but after Plenkovic, it's kind of humiliating to talk about Banozic, and Plenkovic is not allowed to talk about it. So I better not talk about anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83519	And as I announced, we're going to take a stand. The first to deliver a position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club was announced by the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-18-0.u83520	Thank you, my dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues in today's debate will talk about the establishment of a voucher system for the education of employees and unemployed persons. Under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy and the HZZ will start implementing education in early April through the voucher system as a new model for the acquisition of the skills of employees and unemployed persons in accordance with the needs of the economy. The development of skills is necessary in order to allow labour-efficient citizens of the Republic of Croatia to adapt to rapid technological, social and economic changes, which is the basis for the long-term competitiveness of the Croatian economy through the provision of skilled labour. Voucher is a financial instrument to allocate public funding to adult education that will ensure competitiveness in the labour market to unemployed and employed persons who, due to lack of skills, cannot find employment or those who need additional education in order to keep the existing job due to the introduction of new technologies or the transition to green production and the economy or consider changing their careers. The aim is to enable the increased participation of unemployed and employees in lifelong education with an emphasis on the acquisition of skills related to green and digital transition and to ensure quality labour for employers. According to experts, the greatest potential for closing green jobs is energy, engineering, electrical engineering and computing, construction, agriculture, nutrition, transport and tourism. In order to create conditions for the establishment of a voucher system for April 1st, some preconditions have already been made that I will now specify. This has been adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, sectoral councils have been abolished, the Ministry of Labour is responsible for formal and professional evaluation of the standard of occupation. A HKO Regulation has been adopted, a methodology has been adopted for the production of standards of interest of the competence set published on the HKO portal. In addition, the Committee for the Professional Evaluation of requirements for the entry of standards of interest from competences set up by experts in the field of labour, labour market, education and profiling of competences and the economy has been established. Based on the Law on adult education, the Agency for Professional Education has provided the Ministry of Labour with a methodology for the production of adult education programmes for the acquisition of microqualification, partial and complete qualifications, which is a key document for the development of educated programmes for the award of vouchers. Methodology is also publicly published on the website of the Agency for Professional Education of Adults. The Law on adult education has also been adopted. 17. they prescribe formal and informal education programmes to acquire the competences needed for work. A microqualification programme is introduced, which is the basis for shorter educational programmes. A total of 244 standard professions with around 2000 sets of competences were included in the HKO Register, which is the basis for drawing up standards of qualifications and learning outcomes. The Ministry of Labour, Pensions System, Family and Social Policy is already in collaboration with employers and an analysis of registered standards of occupation and their respective sets of competences, a list of 60 deficits with an emphasis on digital and green skills has been defined. a public call has also been issued to show interest in drawing up study outcomes and educational programmes available on the Ministry of Labour's website. This call requires a declaration of interest of the institutions for adult education, regional centres of competence and all interested in the creation of learning outcomes and educational programmes with the aim of implementing a voucher system for the acquisition of the skills of employees and unemployed persons and according to sectors or competence sets. Loggers are called on to propose competences, skills that are not on the list and are required on the labour market with an emphasis on green and digital skills. The public call for expression of interest will be made on a continuous basis and the skills, meetings and competences for which education programmes need to be developed will be updated regularly. Thank you.
