ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102733	Good afternoon, everyone. 9.30, we can start. We can get started, but we have to get started. Before we move on to bringing out the position of clubs on the basis of an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Justice, proposed that a united debate be held on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda, namely the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I can't if I can't keep up with that kind of marble and we'll wait for it to stop. Thank you very much. These points are the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions in First Reading and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration in Second Reading. I also propose that a united debate be held on points 3 and 4 of today's agenda, two reports, in fact identical to the same case for two different years, a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. for the purposes of national minorities and the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. for the needs of national minorities. Do you agree with this proposal? Yeah, well adopted then. I find that we will conduct a united debate on these points. Mr Milan Vrkljan will present the position of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102791	Mr. Speaker of the Assembly, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about whether the Republic of Croatia has an energy strategy or what remains behind the mandate of Minister Coric. '21. HER wrote on 195 pages of her report that production and processing of domestic oil fell from 620,000 tonnes to only 90,000 tonnes. The new INE business report for the first three months speaks of a further dramatic decline in oil production and processing, as well as gas production and processing. I'll just remind you it's '16. In the year, Prime Minister Plenkovic called a press conference and spectacularly announced that we would buy INU, set up a council for INU, set up a consulting company that charged $9,000, $9 million to make '22. in the year, now recently, Prime Minister Plenkovic quietly on the way without a press conference just said the Hungarians have rejected the offer of the Republic of Croatia. In these six years, Plenkovic's term of office has been constant that HEP in 6 years has been untransparently creating an extra profit of 7 billion kuna spent that money. There was no investment in the energy fund, in the energy sector, and all this time it was favourable to the import lobby and various centres of financial power. During the 6 years of Prime Minister Plenkovic's term in Croatia, the installation of wind power plants has been greatly increased where the interest of the financial lobby has come fully to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia and should be said that there is no single screw in these wind plants produced in the Republic of Croatia and that it has no positive effect on the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And the worst part is that the construction of these wind power plants ended with a big affair called Bashic, Krš-Padjane, which was involved with both Čorić and Marić and HABOR, which was behind the project although HABOR should never be co-financed, financially monitored by those projects that do not repair and help the economy of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, his close associate, Domagoj Validzic, charged him, charged him greatly before the DORH investigation and then shut up and it was no longer mentioned. '20. On page 132 HER reported assessments of the impact of solar energy sources on the independence of the Republic of Croatia and concluded shockingly for all those who know this area that HEP and HOPS will have losses per kilowatt of solar energy. It is interesting that HER has completely ignored the climate of the Republic of Croatia, the impact on the economy because the Croatian economy can produce and maintain such systems. 10,000 potential new jobs that are all well paid and, of course, what's most important is the best demographic measure. About 100,000 solar units for 3.5 billion kuna can be obtained by the Republic of Croatia, which is half the profits it had, which the HEP had and purposelessly spent and by 20% would reduce imports of electricity to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia should not be said at the bottom, starting in the EU after the solar units are installed. Interesting why HER gave such a negative opinion. In 2019, a document by the Ministry of Economy itself said that 6,3.321 solar units are planned at households and 851 solar units on economic facilities. In a few years, only three thousand four hundred, six hundred and forty units were achieved in the household of 63,000 planned, while gas and oil imports were increased multiplely, which is evidenced to be suitable for various stakeholders. I wonder if Plenkovic is following the outcome of the ministry or HER and other agencies? Apparently not. Either Plenkovic is incapacitated or he's part of an import lobby. In 6 years, Plenkovic suggested that he was completely unfocused on the problems of citizens and the economy and such a model of governance in the Republic of Croatia was completely spent. We need it. just Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102792	Thank you very much. Mr. Nevenko Barbaric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102868	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, a session of the Central Election Commission of BiH was announced today at 10pm to decide on a general election in BiH on 2.10. this year, regardless of what the elections against the constitutional ones are. I recall the BiH Constitutional Court's decision to abolish part of the electoral law concerning the election of envoys to the homes of the peoples and the previous decision of the BiH Constitutional Court that the constitutionality of the people is the overruled principle of the BiH Constitution. The elections will be held through us by an illegal electoral commission appointed and imposed by the majority. So there will be no implementation of the International Court of Human Rights rulings, and we have also talked about the way the envoys are elected to the homes of the people in the clubs of the representatives, the House of Peoples and others and Serbs, and here are the Croats. A few words would refer to reactions first of all, here in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that, for us, it is good that almost all or all political actors in the Republic of Croatia agree with the legitimate demands of the Croats of BiH on legitimate representation. It is not good that we are becoming a reluctance of interpolitical opposition here in the Republic of Croatia, if we return to a little more recent history, it has always broken down on us and cost us, so among other things, the government has issued nothing, as if these problems had been done since yesterday', since the term of office of this government, I recall that since 2002 to impose amendments to electoral legislation, the Croats have been denied what we have been, guaranteed by the Dayton Peace Agreement and other agreements. Also, I remind you of all governments,... Special relations to Inzkov's interpretation that 5 out of 17 is already a third and a government that has functioned for the next 4 years, who and how from the Republic of Croatia reacted to such situations, as some former presidents have also advocated today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Strategic compass and EU support for the convergence of attitudes... The US administration today is nothing, the efforts that this government makes to regulate the living conditions of Croats, strengthen institutions, from health, education, culture, stronger care for our defenders, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does this have anything to do with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Schengen area or to the Eurozone, on which there is already some resistance? The MPs from the 11th constituency are belittled, suddenly we become the most important and are invited to move to some right side, so many schools of mind, and they don't know who's on the right side is our constituents, now it's irrelevant that he and his family moved to Zagreb, and I from Ljubusko, to the first line between Mostar and Mostar. Also, after 2 years, a colleague investigates from where we are, although we are among the present MPs in the Assembly, the real question of who they are, what they have done and what bothers them in the Declaration, which bothers them at their residence, and those years did not interfere with the Serb Pupovac. Also, they are bothered by the mass of other things, and we have no problem with the position of the president of the Republic and we appreciate its uncompromising position, we will not forget his coming to BiH when there was destruction and burning, but also we are living with Serbs, Bosniaks in BiH, we must talk to them, we must negotiate with them and conclude, the decision on how to continue to participate or not in the elections will be made by Croatian political representatives in BiH, organised in the Croatian National Assembly, I very much believe, and with the support of the government of the Republic, with the understanding of international representatives in BiH, we must not allow ourselves to move from the victim's status as guilty, and this should be taken into account very much. BiH Croats cannot, will not and must not give up on their legitimate representatives, this depends on their survival and survival. And finally, let me remember... the days of civilian war victims marked by the rise of a new monument to the civilian victims of the war of the city of Ljubusko in a special way and with respect we remember the dead, underage children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102984	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u102985	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The situation in Ukraine is unfortunately not calming down and it seems that we are going towards the worst possible scenario that many of us have predicted, a long-standing war conflict, and then even more lastingly seeking a diplomatic and political solution with a completely uncertain outcome. One of the serious consequences of the conflict for Europe and Croatia is the supply of energy, especially gas. The Croatian public believes that we are relatively little dependent on Russian gas, especially in relation to other European countries. Also, the LNG terminal in Krk is now being awarded an almost mythical role as the best decision by a government in history. The fact is that it's good to have a terminal, it's not questionable, and many of those who today complain that they were even against the terminal were not at all, but the question was whether they would be floating or land. However, the one we have is not all-powerful and has its limitations, its capacity is not unlimited. A very worrying report by the European network of transmission system operators for gas has been published these days. This organisation was established to promote the completion of the EU's internal gas market and encourage cross-border trade and co-ordinated action of the European gas network. The organisation's report gives a very black picture of Croatia's ability to fill the warehouses. They estimate that by October 1st we will be able to fill only 30% of our capacity in case Russia closes gas pipes. With that number, we are, oh how well known, again, the worst in the group in the Union. A member of the Croatian network is Plinacro. Given that Plinacro is a member of that association, it is somewhat unusual that they did not want to comment on the reports or assumptions on which the evaluations were made. That refusal of Plinacro to comment on an analysis of an organization that's a member is my first red warning light. The more the report itself says the data is collected from members of the network. What the report claims is that our capacities are not enough or are not flexible enough to successfully compensate for gas supply disturbances by the heating season in the event of an end-of-delivery of Russian gas. It's quite different from what the government assures us of, and I think we need an urgent and serious reaction to these assessments. The economy ministry issued a statement yesterday saying the report was made with data prior to the opening of the LNG terminal in Krk. It's possible, though, but I'll be honest, when you look at the entire text of the report, it's not a very convincing explanation. The LNG terminal in Krk started working on January 1, 2021, and the report is now published. What further arouses the suspicion that this report, which the government claims was made with data before the LNG terminal, is the same LNG terminal mentioned five times in the report. To be absolutely precise, on page 18 once, on page 21 and page 25 twice, and every time the LNG terminal is mentioned it writes the same thing that already works on maximum capacity and that's the second red alert lamp. The government claims that the report was made before LNG, LNG, and that the report correctly mentions it, concludes that it works in full capacity, and then cannot even replace other sources. The gas storage around it is currently at 19% capacity, for technical safety reasons it takes it 3 months to charge up to 90% It means that it should start filling soon, in 2 months with the warehouse having no effect on how and from where the companies will, from where the companies supply it will fill it. The report is a serious report from a serious organization. What the government is telling us is quite different from him, and the reactions involved have not actually calmed us the opposite. That's why I'm asking the government for a quick, complete and convincing answer to the question. Who's right and what's the situation? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103069	- Mrs. Crescent. Ivana Posavec The Guilty in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103070	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, today here on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I am not going to talk about some subject that comes from the media. I'm not going to talk about a topic recognized by our president or our prime minister and about which discussions are being held in the Republic of Croatia, but I'm going to talk about one topic that may be going through a lot of politicians in Croatia under the radar, and that just can't happen, and that's why I'm using this opportunity today for my colleagues and colleagues, and I'm introducing you to that subject if you haven't heard of it yet. Namely, it is about our young people, it is about education and it is about a proposal for a decision to enroll students in the first grade of high school in the school year 2023 and 2022 and '23. which is currently in open consultation until 14 May of this year. Unfortunately, the decision proposed by our Minister Fuchs, the Minister of Education and Science, is not in line with the strategic programmes and national documents made by this high body, HS, is not in line with all the plans and programmes that the Croatian government has made towards education. If you didn't, colleagues and colleagues, know, by this very document that I said was in a public debate, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan '21-'26 is annulled. in the area of reform measure C11R1, the structural reform of the system of education and education, which, as its main guideline and the main objective, highlights the improvement of general secondary education and the modernisation of vocational education and training. Reform interventions covering a higher level of participation in gymnastics programmes have been planned, resulting in a positive impact on the rate of completion of higher education, which is also low compared to the EU average, the quote completed. This is exactly what is being cancelled by the proposal for a decision to enroll students in the first grade of high school where a large number of high school departments are scheduled to be shut down. I'll just list some middles, for example, the high school program loses Chazm, St. Ivan Zelina, Slatina, Grubisno Polje, Ivanić City. And I'm not saying this by accident. I'm saying this because this is about relatively small urban environments, environments that are very badly connected or almost certainly public transport with larger urban centres, environments that have tradition and quality of secondary education, which have quality human resources and whose students achieve extremely high results in academic applications, but also in national competitions. Is it fair of the ruling in the Republic of Croatia to do away with the possibility of even development of the Republic of Croatia and to actually do away with the possibility of education to everyone equally under the same conditions because today, in terms of inflation and burning price growth, in conditions of energy and fuel growth, you know what it means to go to secondary education in remote areas. Does this mean that high school education is only left for a certain elite, for large urban environments? Does this mean that this is a new direction for rural development in the Republic of Croatia? Are we all aware that when young people get out of school when they're 14 years old, they're going to go to a bigger city, that few of them are going to come home, that few of them are going to develop this environment that they've gone from. Both colleagues and colleagues, a large school or a school size does not determine how large it is by the number of students, does not determine how large the environment comes from. It is determined by students who finish it, career-building students who build successful lives behind it, teachers and educators who have involved their lives in achieving great results, but also by local self-government units that separate from their budgets to create superstandards. All of these schools that I've listed here have a higher standard than those schools they have in big cities. And I won't run far away I'll only get to my school, to the High School of Crossing that ends after 60 years of its tradition. And in every school, in every cabinet, in every class, children have a smart record and have a standard of 24 students. Do we give it up? Is that our future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103071	You, too. The second is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103117	Citizens need to know what's going on with our activities because obviously neither the media nor the public are aware of how they're dealing with the best resources and the best quality resources on our coast, and the question is about Baška Voda. A little less than 33,000 of these square meters were sold for some 140 euros, the PPD and those groups were owned because of their connection of course to the ruling ones, and the value is currently, below a thousand euros, impossible to find in Baška Voda. It's an area that we could make a new Baška Voda, the whole, means the whole area. These groups that they gave during the Minister sold it. privatized the state-owned company, everything went to the PPD, and then you call on Russian capital, so whose capital is a colleague from HDZ and others who support you and who pay you? Whose capital is Josip Jurčević, the main man who was in Karamark and the rest of the services, whose capital is that? Andrej Plenkovic is familiar with this by Minister Maric's former. Down people come to me, citizens from that area, at a time when we're talking about this crisis, energy-gathered gigs with the best and most potent assets along our Adriatic, along our seas, in whose interest and for whom? Are these your sponsors gentlemen ruling from HDZ? What makes this property still the highest quality of our assets, which makes this property worth it? Thousands of euros, so the difference is six and a half times cheaper sold to the PPD, given in ownership than is real, real value. And we expect to talk here about problems, we impose themes, I impose my Dalmatian Zagora, Sinja, investment in investments, 3. has passed since the government was in Split and held a session to invest in development mainly of the Dalmatian Mountain, in infrastructure. At the same time when we talk about the crisis, when we throw the topics into focus that don't matter, they're looking at the highest quality land on our shores. The Golden War during the Mayor of Ževrnja is a small baby for what is happening in Baška Voda. Which is why the media didn't publish it I won't go into it, I have an obligation to the citizens in this area and to the Croatian people to point out this problem that something has been sold for 145 euros, and now in Baška Voda it's impossible to find under a thousand euros, impossible to find under a thousand euros this square of the country. I ask the question directly to Andrej Plenkovic whether he is familiar with this case, I ask the question he has taken, has protected this significant plot in Baška Voda and protected the interests of the Republic of Croatia or has protected the interests of those organizations that are possibly or sponsors to them, or when you often mention Russian capital or what, for which reason silence, why does this not go public, why the citizens of Dalmatia are left to sell our activities, which is why our young people are leaving? This is why they're leaving, this is just a small part of the story that suits the interest groups in this area. I repeat, six and a half times the cheapest land on the coast has come to this. Check it out, go and see. I know that it is important and national interest, to protect the Croats in BiH, to discuss this subject, to know that the poverty of our citizens is even more important, I know that it is important to protect them energy and economic, but it is all in the interest of these same groups that are now under the guise of these important topics sold out i.e. They're buying our property. Why answer the Prime Minister here is a simple question, do you know about this and why you're selling out our work?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103118	Thank you. Mrs Urša Raukar Gamulin will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103208	Thank you. So after several hours of publishing the name Ivan Paladina as the new minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, it was clear that the arrested Horvat would inherit an even worse example of the new caste in Croatian society, so those who did well. It is said in the new Croatian language to steal. The HDZ released information that it was a capable manager with long-term management experience, a young expert with undisputed authority and expertise and a great professional career. They beat him up that he's a lapie from his sleeve. But investigative journalists are finding more and more highly suspicious and questionable so-called. The guy's business moves from his sleeves that didn't need a security check because he told the prime minister he didn't have any tails. As early as that, Sandra Bencic commented that a new parliamentary institute should be introduced for Paladin, an impeachment before the appointment. Unfortunately, however, despite the very questionable biography of the time, he was named Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In less than two months’ time on duty, he was engaged in his affairs almost daily, and it is now clear that this young joker from his sleeve had no wealth of 60 million kuna due to suspicious transactions with the IGH bonds, a company that was headed and yet a secret partner with former Russian business partner Sergei Gljadelkin. In short, all of his properties except the apartment he bought with a loan were properties owned by the IGH, which he was the director of. Taxes and legal experts are aware of the Paladin case as to the fact that this USKOK, DORH and the Tax Administration can have a lot of work to do because of the great possible damage to IGH as well as, of course, tax evasion. And they say the DORH has begun the reconnaissances, there could be investigations, the evidence published is inexcusable. It's all known and it's the subject of many comments. But what's fascinating is how citizen Ivan Paladin, who knows best what he's done, decided to become a minister and thus expose himself and all his business to the public and to press research. So, a man who knows very well how he gassed the IGH, calmly comes to the ministerial post means without any fear of publicly questioning his property. What does that tell us? Either Paladin thought it would never be revealed what would say about his extremely limited intelligence or he's so calm because it's normal business, that's what those who know how to handle themselves do, that's what capable managers do. It's just this arrogant, rude peace with which that butcher sat down in a ministerial post. It didn't occur to him that he could explore the DORH, that he might end up in custody eventually even in prison, no, he's untouchable, he's young, talented, capable manager who took his chance, he's a lapie out of his sleeve completely convinced that no one can because he's only doing what he does and all those who know how to get along well. Is Paladin the only one or any exception? No, unfortunately, of course not. It's more like Paladin's just one of the many who've managed so well. One of many who took advantage of a function or closeness with the ruling party and folded up large assets in a short time. This country is a wonder country for all those who know how to manage well or antiqually said for those who know how to steal, steal, cheat, have secret partner contracts, forget how to acquire the first million. It also confirms the frightening peace that Paladin accepted the call for a public office without a shred of fear that he would be revealed and punished for his well-being. He was happy to run into his HDZ brothers' arms for good luck. We'll see how long it takes. How long will it take them and this failed government to help any reconstruction? The only way out is to return the mandate to the citizens and go to the polls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103291	Mr. Marko Milanović litre will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103292	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Zeljko Komsic's enthronement as a representative of the Croats in BiH is a proof of the generosity, dishonesty and dysfunction of the BiH Federation's political system, as well as of the whole of BiH. The main culprit for denying the constitutional rights of the Croats is Robert Barry, who was in 2000. In the role of the chairman of the interim election committee, he amended the rules and regulations and imposed a proposal for an election law that was rejected earlier in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Berry's amendments allowed Bosniaks to ensnar Zeljko Komsic as the representative of the Croats in the BiH presidency, Zeljko Komsic, who has been illegally representing Croats since 2006-2014 and since 2018-2022, taking advantage of the fact that the Bosniak is even three times more than the Croats within the Federation of BiH. Most of Komsic's votes were won in the dominant Bosniak area while in areas where the Croatian population received a small number of votes. In Western Herzegovina, it won slightly less than 2.5% of voters' votes, more specifically in the municipalities of Široki Brijeg, Ljubuski, Chitluk, Posusje and Tomislavgrad. But the problem of Croats in BiH is largely cooked in the kitchen of the international community, but also poor, soft and unclear policies of all Croatian governments to date cooked according to the recipe of the foreign culinary school Mate Granic. The government is no exception in this rule, however HDZ is so incompetent that even their coups advocate a civil model of BiH's structure that would be suitable for Croats. The HDZ's Europarliamentaries are comforted that on boards the rapporteurs of their ranks take into account all their amendments, but not those that are most important and which mention the concept of the constitution of the people. It is quite clear that by ruling us they are lying or lying to us about the level of their influence within the EU or lying to us about their policies towards the Croats in BiH because the HDZs, together with the green parts of the Social Democrats and Liberals, advocate BiH's civil form according to the Sarajevo guidelines. If you do not know how to fight for the Croats in the European Parliament, I have your number from Ruža Tomasic, if you do not have it, I am sure it will help you on this issue. Unlike the public who are increasingly advocated every day by the federal organisation of the EU and the obviously civil form of BiH, a group of European conservatives and reformists together with Croatian sovereigns are sending their delegations to Hercegovina to get to know more clearly, more specifically and more specifically the europarliamentaries with the problems of the Croats in BiH. This was the case several weeks ago when the most numerous Europarliamentarian delegation arrived in Mostar. counterparts from Poland, Italy, Spain are familiar with all the problems of Croats within BiH, starting with a customer-friendly political click that spreads corruption to make the people dependent on state, state services, state-owned companies and state money, up to discriminatory electoral laws within the Federation of BiH. They are also familiar with the paradox that Dragan Ćovic, from HDZ, is today the closest political associate Milorad Dodik, who advocates a secularist policy that gives even more space and importance to the civil organisation of Bosniaks and Bakir Izetbegovic from Sarajevo, and all this to the detriment of Croats. And when I mention Dodik is not just a friend of HDZ, he is a big partner to Croatia if he trusts Zoran Milanovic. Milanovic's condition of resolving BiH's issue by investing vetoes on Finland and Sweden's NATO membership is at the level of logic by Alan Ford's Grunfa. I wonder, what are the sins of the Swedes and the Finnishs over the situation in BiH and going to be blackmailed by the NATO membership veto? The idea of Milanovic is that Croatia is blackmailing two countries the moment Putin threatens all of Europe, and Russian planes enter their airspace. The problems of Croats in BiH must be discussed, but neither Finland nor Sweden can solve this problem and are not responsible for the problem in BiH. All governments have been responsible so far, including one that is nothing on the rules on the matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103293	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will present his position as an independent representative. Please don't. Here you go. Did I say that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103377	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. First, there would be members of the SDP, a member here, because there is only one, only one of the entire club and the Social Democrats and the SDP, not even anyone from the Moto Most, there is no Social Democrats, there is only Katarina. First I would like to express my sincere condolences to you, so today is a great day for you, you lost your friend Tito, here is my condolences, and express my condolences when you hear and see your Zoran Milanović, also express your condolences to your colleague, Peović and fellow Glasovac, perhaps the man is headed towards the House of Flowers, very possibly in fact. Now here are the officers who came to HS to take a statement for the flour I brought to HS last week. They, given that there are reasonable indications that a gentleman at the head of the state consumes illicit substances suspected that there is something in there that should not be in the Croatian Parliament. It's justifiable doubt. And they did what they had to do and they're gonna take statements here in a few minutes from me. However, the esteemed president of the state Zoran Milanovic has recently, I will try to quote him, I did not write down his exact words, I said about this: "Hrvoje Zekanovic works for cash, cash was given to him by Andrej Plenkovic, your money. He's bringing in some Arab investors who are also paying him. He doesn't work for peanuts, he works for money. I call upon the DORH to examine it." And now crucially, this is now directed to the Golden Croatian Ship: "Dear Mrs. Golden Croatian Ship, why don't you do your job? Did you go to the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic in the last 10 days and take a statement from him? Did he see, hear, suggest anything, have any reasonable suspicion that Andrej Plenkovic brought me a bag of money or some sort of fictitious Arab? With what is very crucial here to say, I really am a political lobbyist, advocate for both my city of Sibenik and its county of course on the whole state and currently advocates a huge project. The project is called "Novi Sibenik Step into the Future", which will give birth not only to Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County but to Croatia as a whole. And there are really many investors from all over the world and Western Europe and the United States and the Arab world who are interested. And what Zoran Milanovic thinks these potential investors, potential because I don't decide on choosing them, the European Bank and the BRD decide, they run the story. How will they react when the president of a state accuses them of corruption? I really don't know either he's crazy or he's a pathological liar or he's really eating something. I really don't know! So, serious investors are accused by the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic for corruption. Let me cut the story short, or I'll go back to the metrics. The state's attorney's office is not doing its job and I ask as a representative at the Croatian Parliament to tell us if Zoran Milanovic has been invited to a informative conversation and to say what kind of money transfers he has a clue? Let him say which transfer, direction Plenkovic Zekanovic or some allegedly Arab and Zekanovic. Let it be said and let it be explored or let the Golden Croatian Ship say another thing, that man is not normal. There is no third thing or pathologically lying or the Golden Croatian Ship does not do its job. So, explore, interrogate, close, process or put into a nuthouse. There's no third option.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103378	I know what I'm about to say is unpopular, but no matter what you say today and what we're all tired of, let's just remember that we're talking about institutions. At least we remember, I speak well-intentioned. I'm talking about institutions, so. I speak well-intentionedly I speak well on purpose. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: And what did I say wrong?]] That's how it's done in serious countries. You, too. And finally, Mr. Boris Lalovec will be the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, two days ago, the guest minister said that healthcare generates 400 to 500 million kuna of new debt a month. And it went without any too much excitement in the public, or in some circles of the government, that we don't have a reply to the Minister of Health at all what's going on because in the time of the crown of the crisis, we were, at that time publicly, re-produced once again, the Minister of Finance stated that 200 million are generated monthly, on top of what's being given for the health system, is it? And the health care system is somewhere already at 40 billion kuna level, so very close to the pension system and in Covid's time, there was, come on, understandably, more pressure on hospitals, the entire system, 200 million more. Finally, Covid, we don't have.../incomprehensible/... last year the government is resuscitating, resuscitating with 6.3 billion kunas resuscitating the health system as if it's vaporized the money, is it, as if it's simply all gone and we're already reading in the media today, two days ago that the minister says, half a billion, which means at the level of the year it's 5 to 6 billion kuna, which means that this budget that we're actually adopting here today and that you're making payments means it's fictitious about the health system. It was also the SDP Club and through replicas and through the debate pointed out that the simple health care system either separated the money a little bit or there was something going on, however, we have nothing, then they were the answers that it was all under control, that it was all being held within payment deadlines and then we see after 3 months a complete breakdown from the health system doesn't tell anyone anything, today we see that 4 months of hospitals don't pay, that they're not paying any bill again that they don't pay. And we don't have any reaction from the Minister of Health to what the Minister of Finance said, we don't have those reforms that he said were standing, so, yes, the Prime Minister needs to see them, we remember that when we talk to each other, here, the reform is ready, just as the prime minister hasn't seen that reform, so he's brought his prime minister into an awkward situation then the health minister has to defend himself, that he hasn't seen anything, in fact, he didn't even come up with it now, that kind of document, and now we see all of these documents, on statements that we're entering the euro, and that we have a strong pressure on the budget's spending side, we have 5 to 6 billion, if it's what the Minister of Finance actually said, 5 to 6 billion more expenditures on the health system. Yesterday we hear from the Ministry of Economy to fill the warehouse that we need an additional three billion kunas just to ensure gas supply in the winter and certainly two to three billion kunas need for a construction sector that is under the influence of inflation with a strong increase in raw materials, so it is very easy to add up to about ten billion pressures in the year in which we need to introduce the euro. And I'm sure in the European Commission and they read and they see and they know and they know and I say and I just can't believe that nobody reacts from the health system that there's no system, that there's going to be some kind of reform in the year in which we need reforms, no matter how many years we still have to choose to have time for reforms in the health system, but it's just being put under the rug, and there's always some kind of pressure on the finance minister to find new six billion kuna today that we don't even know how long it's going to last. And today we also have pressure from the HUP, and it will have to work for the government to raise wages, it will have to work, there will be an increase of salaries in the state sector, public and civil servants, but also the private sector, in order to simply withstand this inflation blow, demand further tax charges and not enter the recession, the government will have to do so. It will have to do so in order not to fall the standard of living by introducing the euro, it will have to go into additional tax discharges, however simply in these times of crisis, regardless of what happens, we think that the health care system needs reform, that it needs determination and that it should simply say how much it really costs and that a real debate on real numbers is opened here and that simply this story is not spinning now from year to year is more, so the health system now takes you three to four months to put in new five, six billion kunas. So here we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103544	Thank you, too. We're done taking the stand of clubs and independent representatives. Mrs. Katarina Peovic will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103632	Good afternoon, everyone! Now we've found out who respects what dates and who dates itch. But I will address you for the first of May, the holiday of work that was on this Sunday, and I hope you've all had a good time. But some of them were still working on that day. They worked on Sundays, worked on a holiday, and many will not be paid extra. That's why I'm inviting you, yesterday we had a grandstand here in Parliament, some of the representatives' clubs took part in it. Please refer to the Labour Act, the Employment ZOR Initiative, which is currently making changes, amendments, additions to the laws that would allow workers working on Sundays and holidays to be paid at least minimally. It means that minimum amounts are introduced into the law that workers must receive for overtime, work on Sundays, work on holidays, night work, hard work, etc. Because now, according to the current Labour Act, an employer can literally pay one lip, and he has met the legal standard. These are the topics that should be represented here. These are things that should be said by fellow advocates of certain topics. These are topics to be advocated for. Unfortunately, we will see in the media what topics will be published from everything that is said here. We've received information that Konzum had incomes of 10 billion kuna in Crown 2020, Lidl 6.1, spar 5 billion kuna. How long do workers work at those shopping malls? They come to us and usually have salaries of about 4 and a half thousand kuna. In Podravka, another large industrial, other large branch that employs equal and slightly more workers than this branch of trade, workers work in Podravka under impossible conditions. Most of their salaries are around four, four and a half thousand. You know how much Martina Dalic paid herself a bonus this year? Almost a million kunas. A month's salary is over 80,000 gross and all managers get bonuses of over 600,000 kuna, workers work for 4 and a half thousand. Well, when we come here, then the employers who have some laudes singing in some free speeches, and they say they don't have the money to raise their salaries, then they need to be reminded of the incomes and profits they get every year. Because there's money, but profit comes first. Plenkovic boasts about us here with salary increases, wages grew from 2014 to 2018. In Croatia, 14% of wages grew well, and wages grew in Bulgaria and Romania. In Bulgaria 44%, Romania 85%. Why did the wages grow? Well, because there was a conjuncture after the 8-9 crisis. There's a rise, that's logical, but if there were artificial intelligence at the prime minister's place, there'd be nothing worse, and there's nothing better, now we have a minister of art intelligence, maybe he could set up an artificial intelligence to run the labour sector, the ministry that's the biggest on the way. This growth we had has not been conditioned by this HDZ government, the HDZ government has, in fact, succeeded in doing the worst possible things in the best possible circumstances, so we have had 5 tax reforms that went hand in hand to the richest, those who accumulate and data show that they have accumulated, they have not been saving, they have not spent, and those who cannot satisfy their basic needs with these Maric tax reforms can almost say any raises in income tax pay. Therefore, if I want real economic growth and development, then we can no longer play this race towards the bottom, the game that HDZ has been running for years because this is not how competitiveness is achieved. Competitiveness by reducing the labour price has not led any countries to improve, so neither will ours, but we are not shutting down the last industries, we have no industrial development, no plan, we have absolutely no statistical even information about what industries are that have to do with themselves other industries that have multiplier effects, which have export potential, which have the potential of added value, not with this being, our government will not deal with too much, it is not interesting to them, but a reduction in labour price. Happy May Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103633	Thank you very much, thank you. Then we begin now with a statement on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Marin Lerotić on behalf of the IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103679	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. They repeatedly In fact, all this time, it was as if the money would fall with no state budget tomorrow, and we would have to deal with it, and it is clear that if we want to do a lot of good work, this includes good operational and coordinated action. However, as things stand now, the situation is catastrophic. Croatia requested an extension from one year to June 2023. In order to capitalise on the Solidarity Fund, which is almost a precedent and the European Commission has come to meet this request and today we can proudly say that we have agreed only 4% of 750m euros, a shamefully small amount, and if we continue at this pace we will reach one fiasco next year. And it is concluded that there is a trend in uncoordinated work, poor system functioning and ignoring opportunities that provide EU funding. If we go back a little bit, Croatia has had the opportunity to participate in the implementation of projects in pre-accession funds, we have also participated in the past period since 2014-2020 as a full member of the EU and we have had access to EU structural funds and programmes, and I am now stressing because of the unfavourable senior forces on the economy we have the possibility of using funds from much more elections. Europe may have tolerated us from last year's period as beginners in which we have withdrawn only 65% of the funds and we have until the end of next year and another year and a half. The fact that we still do not have operational programmes, and in this period there are even three Competitiveness and Cohesions, Effective human potentials, Integrated territorial programme and there will be no competitions and no project financing. And it's quite discouraging because at the last minute and on our noses, we're going to take advantage of everything we can, and that's not good at all. What we need to have is stability, reward excellence, trust people, especially entrepreneurs who are drivers of development and investment in the economy because in this way we will enable investment in roads, kindergartens, schools and all that contributes to the quality of life, and funds should be seen as added value and this should be a confirmation of a safe and stable state because Europe has given a clear direction, a green plan, a digital Europe. Croatia has drawn up a national strategy, but obviously without a clear plan of how we will achieve these goals because if our ruling structure is unstable, changes to the Minister more often than rain in London are asked how the capacity in charge of preparing the projects will function. We are preparing sustainable projects, and we are not sustainable, we are preparing bids for digitisation, and our processes are longer than in the First Industrial Revolution, we are funding capacity-building projects, and it is contradictory that the government obviously does not have the capacity to make successful use of the funds available because mistrust between some intermediate bodies and users slows down the absorption of funds and it is time for this to change something. It is precisely in the Recovery and Resistance Fund where Croatia has 9.6 billion euros at our disposal that we have only launched two tenders, only two tenders per year and a half, and if we want to withdraw them we have to contract in the next 2nd year, and the projects are implemented by the end of 2026 because unfortunately the only thing that is operational in this country is the name of a programme that we do not have yet, and it is crucial for the use of grants in this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103680	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Klasic will be the position of the club of representatives of HSLS and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103745	Thank you, esteemed Vice President HS...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103746	Excuse me and the reformer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103747	Okay, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in today's extremely unstable and uncertain economic circumstances, the value of money in the world is linked to high risks, and many citizens are faced with the uncertainty of pension incomes, and therefore with the uncertain existence of today-to-morrow. In Croatia, any citizen, except in compulsory pension insurance in the first and second pillars of pension insurance, can additionally save for age and be voluntarily provided with membership in so-called The third pension post. The third pillar enables citizens to be more flexible, where it is up to citizens to determine the amount of contributions, the ratio of payment to the fund, as well as their dynamics, and the state further encourages pension savings through state incentives, which is certainly one of the desired means of achieving a better standard for all citizens in retirement. Given the current and uncertain conditions of the world economy, it is necessary for the state to create complementary conditions in order to further encourage our citizens to reflect on material living conditions in retirement and to assume responsibility for their own pension income and to ensure a better standard of age. Today, on the world's economic markets, we see for ourselves that it is actually uncertain whether it is invested in real estate or money, in fact the future is uncertain and it would be desirable to ensure that our pensioners as much as possible are dispersed in order to have a better pension and not have a large number of actually social cases and fall in standards in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow. Today there are two types of third pillars of the pension fund, it is open and closed. In a closed fund, only employers who are the founders of the fund and this is often the case with large employers and members of closed funds have the right to additional incentives paid by the employer and therefore are often the choice of such employees. Open voluntary pension funds are available to all citizens, but due to the decline of standards, citizens are increasingly finding money and single out in such a form of savings, which will in future certainly directly and affect the size of their pensions. Given the number of public sector employees, it would be desirable for the state to encourage the greatest interest of employees to take responsibility for their own pensions and to join additional pension funds. Voluntary pension savings so far are the only financial product in the Republic of Croatia which includes state incentives, fund yield, tax relief for the employer and release financial resources for economic activity because these funds invest mainly in companies in the Republic of Croatia. Due to the long-term standard of our citizens, we need to stand even more significantly behind the incentives of this additional pension insurance for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I think that the state should explain a slightly vague regulation that is not up to... defined in a way that determines that the allocation of up to 500 kuna per month, i.e. 6000 kuna per year, is made out of the gross salary of employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not clearly defined so far, and there's actually a cause of great ambiguity because I see that a lot of my colleagues would invest in a third pension column, and this I think would be one of the great incentives. In this way, I am convinced, it would significantly increase the number of public sector employees who are paying for the third pension pillar, and thus, indirectly, also release funds and boost economic activity, and the advantage of such benefits in the future for insurance companies will be far greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u103748	Thank you, too. Now we move to the next two points united into one. These are: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, first reading, P.Z. No. 266 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 245 and subject to all the rules of second reading, including amendments which may be submitted until the end of the debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The State Secretary, Mr Josip Slapic, is in front of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. Will you take your word for it? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106423	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. So, we're discussing two laws, as far as the law on the termination of the Act of Confirmation of Signature and Prescription is concerned, ceases to apply. It is therefore a regulation that was almost 50 years old and since the adoption of the Law on Public Literature in 1993. Whose amendments and additions to the final text of the law will we discuss after this part, so this law ceases to apply. Why has it been so far since 2001?? So there was one change on March 1, '95. So in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and in the field of this office in Lastovo, the law was still in force. As regards the provision of an article. 16 of the law which ceases to apply until an office business regulation has been adopted in 2021. It was worth an article. The 16th of that law. So what it's all about is the taste of this whole thing, which is all about the law on the termination of the validation of signatures and transcripts, so it's been since '93. To this day, all of this has gone to the Public Note Act so that the public notebooks are the ones doing these jobs that were provided for by the law that we are repealing with this proposal. As for the difference in the Law on Public Literature between the first and second readings, therefore there have been some major nomotechnical procedures in the law, so something differs by changing articles first and second reading, and what I say did not change the taste of the final text of the Law on Public Notes but only this nomotechnical and technical part. So right at the beginning, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the amendment to the Committee on Law, which we received today in the morning at the committee debate, we accept. As regards the fundamental and important amendments to the Law on Public Registration, what follows the full reform of the Croatian judiciary, which is the further digitisation of the system and the system of public notaries, therefore rules on the issuing of documents in electronic form are regulated here, and in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register. Therefore, it was necessary to intervene in the Law on Public Literature when it comes to harmonising with these two laws which HS has already discussed and adopted. As far as other newspapers are concerned, it is therefore a line of participation of parties in the legal procedures, so all that follows other justice systems when it comes to modernising and informing the justice system, all in the sense that all services are better and equally available to our citizens. When we talk about equal availability of services, as regards those places in the Republic of Croatia that don't have public records offices here, we are now establishing an office day system so that people don't have to travel, but public notebooks would travel to office days in places where there are no public notebooks. As far as other newspapers are concerned, the new rules on how to choose public notebooks are particularly regulated here when it comes to filling or new public places in accordance with the regulations, and we now propose that this be a commission in the Ministry of Justice and Administration, headed by that commission, would be the minister of justice and administration. The same thing that has not been done so far with public notary candidates would be carried out with each individual conversation. So far, the justice minister has not personally participated in these talks under new conditions, so far, when he signed a decision on the choice of a public notary, that would be the case. Also, the mandatory information public records must have, which is the OIB, has not been so far. We also regulate the institute of the deputy public notary, and the institute of the deputy public notary. So far, this has not been regulated, the institute of the deputy public notary. And as for the deputy public notary, if the circumstances provided for so far are legal, the deputy public notary could only be for areas where the court's seat is located. The deputy public notary could now be any public notary or successor from other areas of the Republic of Croatia. We also regulate the cost and tariff of public notebooks. It will be a special regulation, and under this proposal the law will be passed by the minister of justice and administration, so of course in cooperation with the Public Bookmark Chamber. It is our goal, therefore, that these costs to the citizens, since this law also provides for new powers of public notaries as Commissioner of the Courts. Therefore, in those proceedings in which public notebooks can replace the court, these tariffs to our citizens should be controlled and therefore agreed with the Ministry of Justice and Administration. And we also make new rules when it comes to tight procedures, the responsibilities of public notaries in which to conduct tight actions against those notaries who therefore do not do their job well. The Code of Public Ethics is also in line with that. So, in agreement with the Public Bookmark Chamber, it's a very important thing that this Code of Ethics monitors other systems, but also the system of public notebooks. So that's what's going on between the first and second readings of some minor change. I say we haven't changed the taste as far as courts and judges of all levels of courts in Croatia, state lawyers, deputy state attorneys and the State's Attorney's system are concerned, as well for public notaries. So we plan this lifelong, professional training that will, therefore, comply with the specific regulations that will be passed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration. What we want for all systems of judicial authority and for public notaries, those who are in direct contact with citizens, that this lifelong education that follows the entire system in the Republic of Croatia will also be for this system of public notaries. Because it is very important that changes that are permanent, continuous and daily, be followed by public notebooks, since so far it has not been such a rule. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs I suggest these two laws be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106424	Thank you. First replica, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106425	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is after the amendment and addition of the Law on Commercial Society and on the Court Register and today's draft laws, we continue primarily with reform and digitalisation and justice and public administration, and I congratulate you on that. However, I would ask one question that may not be in the first place in these amendments, but I think it is certainly interesting and interesting, above all, about the legal profession, and this is specifically about certain deadlines that will change these changes. Specifically related to legal professions after a judicial examination has been passed in order to become a public notary or to approach a public notary exam, where it goes in favour, so persons and, on the other hand, change deadlines related to certain strict measures where in some way those persons who have violated the law are tightened, so if you can do so a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106426	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106427	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Therefore, so far it should have been in the case of a public notary after a judicial examination was passed for five years, a minimum of five years of working experience. We have now accepted certain suggestions to be four years of work experience and generally these quite strict, so the provisions that have been made can become a public notary we have reduced them not too much because we wanted to make more available, so that more candidates can report for public notebooks. Also, some changes here that are relevant in the taste will need certain rules to intervene further in the process, so these rules apply within six months of the adoption of this law or one year from the adoption of the law. Just like we had in our first reading, so it's very important that we here now allow those public records offices to employ more people than they could now if there was a need, because we're changing that with new powers to be given to public notebooks. Thank you very much. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106428	Mr. Bull, take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106429	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to clarify some of the things that are now mentioned here. We bring here changes to the law. The public notebooks and tariffs you specify will, as a rule, provide you with what will be the amount of these expensive tariffs. Then why are we here in the Parliament? Why is this not in the tariff proposal, but the rule will be passed by the minister, so it will certainly be at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we will give you as Parliament power to make it that rule amounts that are expensive anyway. After the death of family members, what is happening, what are the prices, what are the tariffs. And otherwise, what are tariffs? It is not clear to me, I ask the question here and through a replica which is why it is not defined by the law, that parliamentary representatives who vote on it are not led astray by those and also by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For these rules and regulations or all that the ministers bring is what they bring by their own free will. So I would suggest once again that tariffs should be in the law, this proposal, in amendments, and you, yes, also mentioned that you would be the minister for a conversation with a public, new reception code. I mean the minister to be with the notebooks? I don't know what effect it's going to be to select a quality other than what might require a party card from which the minister is. It'd be better if it was an independent body, a judicial body. Now, as far as Croatia is concerned, you mentioned the judiciary, how much the Croatian judiciary in the people has confidence. We know that the first five things that our citizens say are most trusted in, which is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary and the fifth justice system again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106430	You've listed four of them, but also another judiciary, the fifth judiciary is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106431	Here's a chance for you to say... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106432	This one's been granted a break with us going, and we're going to keep working right now. - Mrs. Crescent. Hope Ancient Budunski also replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106433	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature has been joined primarily for the purpose of introducing public notebooks in electronic form. In addition to modernising the business of public notebooks, the introduction of electronic public notary documents aims to ensure greater availability of public notebook services in places where it is not established, to establish a public notary’s seat through the establishment and performance of office days by official duty, so I am interested in what criteria will these seats be set elsewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106434	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106435	Thank you very much. Dear MPs already have a new criterion where we filmed the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and saw how and in what cities the number of inhabitants were, whether there were reductions, increases in population, what business environment, how many public notebooks under that rule should primarily be in that area. So when we filmed it, we brought in this Regulation about seats and the structure of public records offices. There is now a new competition in progress and one will be held by the end of this year. What is important and what we wanted to ensure is equal availability to all citizens of public records offices because there is a need for this. Of course the same where there is no we will now, after we pass this law, adopt special mandatory office days when a public notary under official duty will have to do in accordance with the law and regulations in those places that are territorially separated from these major public notebook seats. Then it'll be for the citizens of good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106436	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106437	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear secretary, I have two questions for you. The first question is why does the public notary have to contact the chamber in order to obtain a qualified certificate when all the notebooks already have qualified certificates to access the e-tax system? That's the first question. The second question, in the law, is that if the party approaches through a video conference, a procedure with the public notary that the public notary will determine its identity through electronic documents, how, in what way? We have a big problem with that, with identifying identity today when we come to the notebook's office and the notebooks don't recognize the forged documents, so I'm asking you to explain it a little bit because it's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106438	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106439	Thank you very much. If you have followed what I have exhibited at the beginning and what was in the first reading the mandatory content of the document is the OIB, so far the OIB of Citizens has not been the mandatory content of the public notation, now that this system of electronic documents is regulated, the system of online access to the public record office, therefore one of the conditions to determine the identity of the parties is also the OIB. According to the OIB, the public notary will verify which parties are involved. Similarly, what is important to say for all possible problems that could not be mentioned in the legislative proposal, normally the law is one general act, that we rules that will therefore be reunited with experts and working groups where public notaries and representatives of other institutions of the state will regulate this procedure, so we will not leave the case to go to the modernisation of the system and there will be problems in practice in implementing it. And as for why the chamber appears, and the lawyers appear to the bar, so it's a system that doesn't make sense to report to the Justice Department, so that's why that chamber has its own chamber. That's how it is in all EU countries, it's already 100 years old. It's an old faucet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106440	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106441	Thank you. You mentioned the coster and that the coster would be brought by the minister of justice. What we have as an objection to public notebooks and I am interested in how much this problem will be addressed and of course we welcome greater availability and information of the whole procedure, but the problem is not availability and information, but the problem is high costs and the coster is really too high and people are coming to us and you know from personal experience that this is a key problem, and sometimes it means 30 years ago. There was a service of civil servants who were certifying signatures and copies, and that service was completely free of charge. In order for something to be a public service and for it to be available, it must actually be cheap or it must be free, and it is not only a problem in the information and availability of the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106442	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106443	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there is a lot of pressure on citizens through various government decisions and as various institutions to abolish so far as there are a lot of burdens that citizens have had. As far as the public record tariff is concerned, I'm only going to say one example of why we're here now saying that we're going to make the tariff by the Justice Minister's decision. When we changed the Executive Act we therefore completely reduced to minimum costs by the maximum number of executions of public notebooks, above all we asked for a prior notice that the debtor would try to agree with the believer about, that there was no cost at all, and then in that whole story, at the end of all, one 30 kuna remains a public notary as a profit from those minima. That's what I'm saying about the biggest number of executions, so we went to intervene where we thought we had to. With these tariffs right now, I think it'll be perfectly consistent with what we think is enough for a public notary's work to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106444	Thank you. Mr. Katicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106445	The Honorable Chairman and State Secretary, and above all, since it is a united discussion of two points that are in some way difficult to connect, but still a few sentences. First of all, I think it is commendable that some regulations that are still in force from the former state are finally lifted, and I hope that there will be further steps in this direction because there are some that are still long ago forces on this one. As far as this public notation is concerned, I also think that the results of the introduction of public notebooks as an institute of public powers transferred from the court have shown good results, with these changes it certainly goes in this direction to further strengthen. So I ask you for a brief comment on whether and to what extent it is planned that, given the results achieved by public notebooks through public authorities institutions, this increases in terms and limits of number, reductions in the number of public notebooks that these jobs can and trained Work. [[I'm sorry, time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106446	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106447	Thank you very much. Speaking of new regulations, we're going to pass a new law on extra-parnian procedure by the end of this year, it's some of '40s. and some years still in force certain regulations. So we're working on that modernization of the system. As far as this role of public notebooks as Commissioner of the Courts is concerned, above all, our goal is to relieve the court of those things that a public notary might do to legal possibilities and powers. Now we've already got some procedures, and we can talk about costs and tariffs, so that depends on what's going on at the moment. So it's not quite so red and so white. It's also not like we're defending public notebooks and chambers now. So we are with citizens being satisfied, and everyone else doing their job to do their job in accordance with the powers and opportunities that a citizen can pay. And as far as we're concerned, we're thinking about some land-based library procedures being shared by public notebooks together with lawyers and the cost being lower and shorter than a court case would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106448	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106449	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I commend this, this information further and in fact the transfer and public record offices to online cooperation with the courts. I think it will certainly speed it up, and it will make it easier for the parties. As for what you said earlier, the public notebooks are in many proceedings commissioners of the courts and as you yourself said where courts can actually pass it on to public notebooks, it is also good because the courts are being released, so I wonder if you have thought about the contractual divorce of marriage that these proceedings be passed on to public records offices. I believe it would relieve the courts, and on the other hand, to facilitate and speed up proceedings where there is nothing disputed to make it possible. And that's the same thing. how I understood about the tariff that will now be practically regulated [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] In addition to the ministry's authority, I think that name is intended to be reduced to citizens. [[Thank you, Mrs. Jelkovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106450	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106451	Thank you, well-respected MPs, here we have jointly implemented legal changes when it comes to enforcement procedures and various laws in the domain of the judiciary. The goal is precisely that, therefore, greater availability and that the costs related to the different procedures from the simplest to the most complicated are above all cheaper for the citizens. Why this on-line information? You saw when we had court fees when it came to using modern technologies digitally, the tariffs were 50% lower for those who did not go the old way. So we're gradually doing it because we want the whole system to move on to modern, to be as little cost as possible. Somewhere we completely abolished the payment of certain fees where there was less revenue in the state budget, but to relieve the citizens. So this whole story and these contractual procedures, we're thinking about it and so it's that these procedures can be guided by them. All the aim is to speed up the process, reduce costs, increase citizens' availability in these smaller environments that they do not have to travel, have costs and so on to make the system work in a cheaper and faster way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106452	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106453	Thank you very much. I would ask the question I asked here at the station, to be told exactly why I would not have your tariff proposal as parliamentary representatives, not to have the minister decide by his own rules or by any other document. For what? Because we would have the opportunity to vote on those tariffs that are very important. Of course, it is also important to cover the area and the seat that was wrongly built in the case of courts. I know this Sinj, the Cetinski region and this vast area that is larger than Međimurje County, and by the number of inhabitants larger than Ličko, there are more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County where there is no municipal court, there is no municipal court. So I'm mostly interested in why there wouldn't be a tariff proposal in this section. And secondly, it's very important that you say this before the minister made a decision, and now the minister will be at the hearing of these, I don't know what that difference is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106454	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106455	Thank you, well-respected Representative Bulj, for the discretionary decision or the minister's decision when choosing a public notary to choose which one it will be. So, the minister is authorized by law after the entire process of selecting a public notary has passed. It is not by the minister himself but by a special commission with the consent of the public record chamber. Sometimes more candidates come forward. The minister signed for the one who received the best grades, consent and on the basis of talks on which the minister has no influence. So, the minister signed a decision on the choice of a public notary without even seeing who it was. So we've had some problems with that, and now we want everything to be transparent. First of all, the whole process is run by an independent commission. At the end of this, when the commission says which candidates are in the narrow circle, only then will it be at the end before the minister signs the talks with those candidates who are actually an independent commission. As for the tariffs in the law, it wasn't until now in any law other than those infringing when it comes to the amount of penalties that were in the law. So it's a living thing that's gonna [[Intruder: Thank you time.]] In accordance with the chamber of notebooks agree on a walk. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106456	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Salapic, here's a very precise question. Article 42 of these legal amendments, paragraph 6, let me ask you, do you have any idea what number of public notebooks have opposed the appointment of a public notary? Do you know the exact number? If no one stood up to them, it means they could have chosen them themselves. If he stood up to them, what is the number and what are the most common reasons? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106458	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106459	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I don't know the numbers by heart. There were certain objections, not so many. It's one brand that's first of all... is also in EU countries, and therefore there are certain practices that are positive within their activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been certain objections, there have been certain failures, there have been certain failures, as well as everything in life. We wanted this law after '93. the year to edit the system in collaboration with the public record chamber, and we also wanted the best people, the best candidates to perform such a responsible duty. So, we think it's a public notary's job that it's not just a credential or transcription or something like that. but with these new powers, it must nevertheless be persons who are primarily professional, stable, and also that the team that employs and selects the public notebook must be primarily a service to all our citizens. So I'd like to know exactly, but I can ask around while I'm sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106460	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take a word? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first Mr. Darko Klasic to speak in front of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106461	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. The law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts that we are discussing today was passed almost 50 years ago, and was passed by the Socialist Republic Assembly of Croatia. The Democratic Republic of Croatia is back in '94. decide that the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts will cease to be carried out in the offices and outposts of local self-government, but thus a special and separate transition in respect of each individual county has been adopted. The last such decision was taken by the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva in 2016. The law in question has become a relic of the past and I think we should have reacted before and made a legal decision in accordance with the situation applicable in practice. Unfortunately, there are also a number of laws in Croatia that are the legacy of the past, which have been taken over from the time of the former state and which we urgently need to replace with new, more modern laws in accordance with the time in which we live. As an example, they can state the Law on infringements against public order and peace, as well as the Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children almost four decades old. The provisions of the Law on Public Orders and Peace on the basis of which the police act were adopted during the totalitarian system and we are aware that they are incompatible with the existing democratic order. The law also needs to be changed or replaced urgently, along with a series of undefined or insufficiently clearly defined issues in this law, from regulating prostitution to banning the symbols of totalitarian regimes. Another law which remains in the past and which also needs to be revised is the Law on Health Measures to exercise the right to free decision on the birth of children who need to establish a clear legal framework for the termination of pregnancy. It is clear that the amendments to those laws can trigger additional ideological and political debates which unfortunately are not lacking in our society, which is probably one of the reasons why in 30 years of our independence and statehood we did not have the courage to change the laws that can cause additional divisions in our society, but also run and speed up changes. For the changes mentioned two laws of an undeniable relic of the past, it will be necessary in any case to reach a certain national consensus and to find an appropriate political will among all participants of the Croatian political scene. There is no doubt that these two laws, which I have spoken about under this debate, are definitely not in line with the new social circumstances as well as the implementation of the change in social and political order in Croatia. In this sense, HSLS supports the changes to such outdated laws because we aim to improve the efficiency of a country in which citizens believe and create a society in which everyone is certain that they will exercise their rights. The reduction and simplification of the legal framework is very rare and, at the same time, the necessary and desirable direction of legislative activity in Croatia, as liberals, is assessed by the political preference of the freedom and responsibility of citizens in terms of their life planning. In the Law on Public Literature, compared to the first reading of this bill, its improvement is visible, and I am particularly pleased that you have observed several suggestions that we have proposed during the first presentation of this bill, however, I do not think it is a good solution and where the amendment remains. Article 122, point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The 42nd amendments in this respect would refer to those two details. The public notary office may have three neighbours, and it is obvious that it is a concession to large public offices that have many, so I can say almost too much work at the expense of other colleagues. I believe that in any public office, regardless of the amount of work and the intended extension of the powers of the public notebooks, it is quite enough for two neighbours and two advisers to work, there is no need to amend the previous provision. Honestly, there are offices where public notebooks personally do very little or almost nothing, and most of the jobs are done by neighbors and other employees of the office. If the above changes remain, I find it counterproductive and unfair to most public notebooks and neighbours, all in favour of several large offices in large cities. If there is indeed an increase in the scope of the public notary section, a tender for new public records offices could always be opened, which I consider to be much more correct than the solutions that allow individual offices to build up jobs and neighbours. I am also sorry that the proposal is not accepted that when the appointment of new public notebooks, priority is given to neighbours with the highest internship. I think that the view of the profession would be correct if such provisions were incorporated into the law because it would make it impossible or at least reduce various pressures in the appointment of new public notebooks. Finally, I think that every member of the Republic of Croatia is the most professional candidate to be appointed public notary, of course respecting and respecting the criteria for all other candidates working in the judiciary and the state administration. We welcome the fact that this draft law seeks to ensure the availability of public records services in places where a public notary seat is not established because of a small number of inhabitants and less developed economic and legal traffic through the establishment and performance of office days under official duty determined by the Ministry after the attached opinion of the Chamber. Public notebooks should relieve the grants of these changes because proposals for entry in the land book will be addressed by electronic means, and companies should be able to be established remotely from the summer. In fact, the relationship between this regulation and the legal powers entrusted to it is quite delicate, but it is not inconsistencies only to take into account the fact that, in various laws, notaries are entrusted with a number of public powers from the exercise of the exercise of powers to desert procedures and that stable financing of their service is necessary to ensure the exercise of these public powers. Deregulation in the direction of non-limiting of their numbers seems certainly meaningful and desirable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106462	You, too. Mr. Michel Jaksic in front of the club, not Željko Pavić pardoned in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106463	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Changes in the environments in which public notebooks operate, the constant digitisation of all areas of human activity, the modernisation of equipment, the transition of many business entities to e-business, i.e. electronic business, and the transition to m-business, i.e. mobile business and the ine of changes that occur in an environment in which public notebooks work are certainly one of the valid reasons to digitise both the business of public notebooks towards users and not only within public records offices, i.e. the Public Bookmark Chamber. The introduction of new technologies in the work of public records offices allow the presence of parties through video conferences, making public records in electronic form, using digital signatures and time stamps by notaries are changes that the Social Democrats Club strongly supports and hopes and believes will continue to use new and official technologies in public notation. Moreover, the amendments to the public notation documents in electronic form and, unfortunately, the introduction of a digital signature were not the primary objective of this law but had already taken place as a consequence of the second objective, which is to enable the establishment and registration of remote companies. In particular, since the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register were found to be the authorised creators of the establishment documents, i.e. the registration of companies, and that the amendments to these laws enabled the establishment and until the registration of a remote company were necessary in the Public Note Act to introduce public records in electronic form. But let us be realistic and correct, regardless of what the goal was, and the result seems to be that positive changes will occur in the work of the public notebooks, i.e. they will happen in another part of the digitisation that we allave and welcome. I'll mention another problem that we consider to be left to solve. The legislator, in my opinion and in our view, did not foresee a solution to this problem in the bill, although we had just heard a different interpretation. It's about the problem... the identification of the party to be on the link, i.e. at the videoconferencing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We remember the problems that existed during the control of personal documents in public records offices when the forged documents were not recognized in the application and registration of debtors. Unfortunately, this enabled a greater number of criminal offences in the next step when these debtors were asked for money in the FINA offices. We therefore expect that some sublaw act will address this problem in an adequate manner. The methods of identification mentioned shortly before by the secretary via the OIB are at least incomprehensible because the question arises as to what happens when the party uses a foreign OIB in the process. How do you determine whose OIB is using? Dear Secretary, that's the problem. An unclear explanation is related to the replica regarding obtaining a certificate. He wondered why the public notary must contact the Certificate Chamber since public notebooks already have qualified certificates, and in addition, we have two certification priorities in Croatia. We have FINA and the AKD which issue qualified certificates and are both state-owned and I do not understand why the Chamber must be a mediator for issuing certificates when the public notary can either directly report to the FINA or to the AKD and receive a qualified certificate allowing it to digitally sign documents and on the basis of which it will receive both a stamp or a time stamp. I also didn't get an explanation, so if you don't have a problem later in the final debate to explain it a little why it takes the Chamber to be a mediator in that part. Namely, I must note and draw attention to the fact that most of the notebooks, I can even guarantee that all the notebooks already have qualified certificates, given that everyone is accessing the e-Issuary. So they're accessing the system, the digital system of e-Iscen, and to sign up there they have to have certificates, because for handing over documents, they have to have a digital signature there, too. And I don't see any reason why we should report back to the Chamber now, to forward the Chamber to obtain new certificates. In addition, we have a dilemma as to whether the proposed amendments and additions are sufficient to correct all that is not good in the Law on Public Literature, which was passed back in 1993. In addition, what bothers us again and brings us into the dilemma regarding the assessment of the application and the possibility of simple uniform implementation of the law is the fact that out of the 20 observations that have appeared in the consultation on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature, only two have been partially accepted, all others are easily rejected. If we start with a first remark which is not accepted by the promoter and is about the competition and selection of neighbours in which the public notary wants freedom in the selection of neighbours, it is clear to the legislator that this freedom of choice is limited for a simple reason so that it does not happen in practice that public notation becomes a family business. However, the Minister of Justice should also be forced to respect the legislation and to appoint members and public notaries as truly the best candidates, which I can safely say was not the case so far, and I will talk about it later in my free speech, i.e. in an individual debate. As for the observations that came into the public debate, which concerns depositing signatures for representing a legal person, it is evident that some have not yet sensitized and realized the opportunities of work at a distance is which all the benefits and benefits are given in relation to the work of public notebooks so far. We also think that the problem is that there are no problems for public notebooks working in rural areas and the big question is whether their work is economically worthwhile, whether they can pay for the secretary, can I really say at the end of the month that they have earned money for their salary and for their secretary. Namely, in cities and municipalities where there are no large business entities, in which there are no banks that would lend loans, it would allow the notaries to have income from solemnisation, which would eventually enable them to make their business economically profitable, these public notebooks unfortunately work with losses and the question is how long they will be able to endure. On the other hand, we welcome the government and the legislator's initiative and desire to enable all of our citizens to have an accessible notary. So that's where they found themselves in one step that they were supposed to sort out in some way. What are we gonna do with these little notebooks that really work in those rural areas? How can we help them, and how can we enable them to continue their work? I will discuss the details related to the selection of notebooks and the choice of neighbours in my individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106464	You, too. And now Mr. Michel Jaksic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106465	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we have two laws and two amendments to the law in front of us. I will first talk about the easier and shorter, so the law on termination, the law on copying, signing and that everything on the list is something we welcome and commend because if we are 8 years old, now there will be 9, part of the EU, if it is mantra that we go to digitize and speed up and make everything more efficient that is possible, then it is definitely good to abolish a law that has been in force since 1973 or '74. For years and certainly when it comes to all those changes that took place in Croatian independence, today we come to the conclusion that he no longer has his own purpose and that it is much better and much simpler to put an end to it as such and to cease to be valid. The Law on Public Literature is here today in front of us in the second reading and what I must and can praise is that today we have received information that between the first and second readings is primarily covered and accepted a lot of what the Public Bookmark Chamber has proposed, and it is certainly a good way to follow and listen to what the profession says to make certain legal solutions even better, even better and even more adequate. What is mentioned on the board today is also mentioned in some discussions, it is also certain that a good way to model how to digitize all these processes, to make them more efficient, to find a model to reduce the pressure of costs on our citizens, because simply in the whole of the law that is changing now we have this one tendency and that is something that should definitely be commended and should be supported in this way. Of course, will we ever have the perfect law? We won't. There will always be someone who will be unhappy and unhappy and we will never be able to say that we have found the perfect model that we can be sure won't harm anyone and make anyone unhappy. But this tendency to make public records available, to be easier, to do what is asked of them is something we certainly commend and what we should insist on in further consideration, but what would only draw attention to, not for thinking but for being careful, given how much the process is now, how much of these corrections and documents will be done in a different way, so that there is really a security model that does not happen to us manipulations with certain documents and certain objects because we know how it used to work in some previous times when everything went through the hands of public notebooks that couldn't help themselves in the end, and often there was a mistake and injustice. Certainly it is necessary to highlight, although it is not in this package of amendments and it is not about this law, that we still have as well as how we tax the tax and how we pay VAT afterwards because there is a double payment by our citizens because on the one hand you pay the VAT tax and then you pay the VAT afterwards. I think it would be in future changes a good step for our citizens where they would be reduced by those costs, and I believe that even public notebooks would praise and support it, since then a little bit would be reduced by that story and the presses how they yell at people, how they charge for everything they can charge for, and realistically, sometimes some things don't have with them. I don't think there's much to turn around because we have a situation where public notebooks are doing something on behalf of the courts, so when they're authorized by the state and then we don't have VAT costs. So just level two procedures, what the state does, the court, what the notes do for the state, the court, and what they do for the public try to come down to the same framework, to the same form, and certainly that we will reduce that cost component to citizenship. When we talk about public notaries, of course we are all the happiest in our private time when we are not dealing with lawyers or public notaries because it is usually something that you do legally, but it is certainly important to note in this debate that, when Croatia enters the EU, we have submitted a great burden and have done a great deal of work when a good portion of the executives have agreed to take over themselves because, of course, the presses on our judicial system have been reduced and we have had much better numbers that we could show, of course, to those who rated us when entering the EU. Thanks again very much for the time to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106466	Thank you, too. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic The club of representatives of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleague Salapic, colleagues and colleagues. So there are two laws ahead of us, in this first law we can really just say a sentence, he's more than we do today, and he's no longer alive because actually the signature certificates are no longer in the offices of the state administration like they used to be, the signature certificates are actually in the jurisdiction of the public notebooks. So on that side, this is what I would say is a declaration law that we declare a fact that already exists. So, the public notaries are independent and independent persons who perform and actually have public trust, and the state has delegated to them certain powers to act on behalf of the state in certain matters, somewhere these court commissioners are, for example, in desert procedures, and now since the last amendments to the executive law, they also act as court commissioners, and it is a good, good step in any way related to such conduct because we know that there would be doubts in the executive procedures whether the notaries are a judicial body or not, so some of the solutions to the performance actually fell in the European court because they were not so defined. With the latest amendments to the executive law, I think it's been removed and that the notebooks in the business can act just as a real judicial body. I remember when this institute was even introduced in the '90s as a good step, and I think that we also thought that until today, it has proved that by establishing a notary we are actually strengthening trust in legal, legal traffic between the subjects because both the certificates and the testimony of the notebooks in some cases were actually giving power to these actions that the parties were taking. What was also very important was the slowness of the proceedings, and now the problem was actually the slow conduct of the courts, and it was before that we did not say even greater and when the notebooks were introduced into our system and when they were given the authority that those legal transactions and legal acts gave power to the executive documents at that time meant at least 5-6.g. save time means you don't have to go to the party's first-degree procedure, so wait for the verdict, and after the appeal procedure, it was known after 6-7. It's the possibility that the notary would give some contract, some kind of legal action to give the power of enforcement, which means that it skipped all that time that was before, in front of them. Clearly, it has its price, they used it most and today the most the banks and other ones of this institution use it, but in any case a certain discharge of our judicial system has certainly come this way, and the notebooks have thus disbursed our judicial system and have raised some confidence. This, these amendments to the law, I look at the first reading, they've had a lot of nomotechnical changes, and that's okay, that's where the proposer was mostly a chamber, but it's kind of a fundamental difference compared to the first reading, and it's not. What we see is, in fact, that these changes are fundamentally desired, two objectives are fundamental, and this is the modernisation of actually the conduct of public notebooks and a better availability of a notary service to our citizens. These are two important things and this modernization to say digitisation it includes today almost all segments of the functioning of the state and it is clear that it is reflected in the work of public notebooks. We already have the possibility today to establish companies, companies, businesses digitally, so we don't have to do this ić anywhere, it doesn't have to be done in any state institutions, or to write founding acts like it was, or to then go to the Bureau of Statistics, for retirement and health insurance, it can be done from its office today, from their living room, it needs to have a computer, it needs to be connected, it needs to be entered into the system, full forms, and that is, it's a big step. We now create here in some way and the normative framework means for making electronic documents which is good, good, it's certainly good this step and it's actually just the continuity of what the state does and in other segments of functioning. We saw now, we had last week it seems to me the Law on Amendments of the CAP that it lives in courts quite well, and now it all needs to be connected in some way. One of the important things is the availability of these offices because the goal is that citizens do not travel again, but that it is available as previously said here and in places where there are no banks, where there are no institutions, where there is no legal traffic so dynamic and alive and there is possible to open it means some of these offices, offices or so to say the offices of those who already operate and in some way it is possible to distribute these people so that those people living in such areas do not have any problems but that such an office is available to them outside of some headquarters and there. I also think there is a need to welcome the provisions on how to choose the notebooks. It is now under this law that a commission is established where the minister at the head of the conversation, so far it has not been so, was done by the chamber, and then the chamber gave an opinion on who would, in the view of the chamber, be the best candidate or give an opinion on several candidates she thought could be a public notary. Once there was even a provision that the advantage in this process would have neighbours, which, looking at practically very often and ending up being a neighbor appointed because the neighbour is still a person who shares there, for many years this one works and has experience and in some way if this one ceases to work, and he is appointed and that neighbour then brings a certain continuity to work whether and all of it. But it doesn't have to be that way, it doesn't have to be that way. So this is a very good thing that the commission and the minister will have a conversation with all these candidates and see, in fact, which is more convenient with all the CVs that are certainly to be respected, but sometimes there was a very explicit provision to choose the neighbours which the Constitutional Court has abolished by its decision and said that it can't do that, it must be the availability of such a place actually made possible by all on equal terms. It is also a very good provision that changes things, and that is that the working tariff means public notaries to bring a minister because here it is, however, business that the state delegates to public notebooks, and on the other hand, I think it is very justified that it is then also the minister to determine by which tariff it is because it is not a competition that is in some way exclusive to the state, giving independent independent independent individuals who have public confidence. I think even at first reading or now in the Law on Amendments of the Parley Procedure, I said that we should use this institute as much as possible to relieve the judiciary and actually make it easier for the citizens. And I think it would be good for some of the following amendments to the Law on Literature, including the Law on the Procedural Procedure to see the experiences of others, and that's something to do with this institute of our previous evidence insurance. This means before the trial itself is launched before someone sues that it would actually be good for the notaries to have them provide some evidence, say some interference between them, that they go out before the court, that they fix exactly what is happening here, and that what happens in that process next to the notebook happens to have the power of evidence, that such evidence is no longer being carried out in the court proceedings. You actually need to see this because this seems to me to be what the state has passed on, and it's about, it's about the performance and the desert procedures that it's going relatively fast and it's proved to be a good instrument for discharging courts. These changes are also well-assembled, in fact, all these functions and these human structure, from trainees, counselors, neighbours, deputy public notary, so that very precisely these conditions were stated and that, so far, was one substance that was not fully regulated. Now that's more important than that. In any case, we welcome these amendments, they mean a certain safe step forward and the HDZ Club will support the amendments to the Public Note Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106468	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106469	Good afternoon. I would like to remind you that public records were established by law in 1993 as a public service, and amendments to the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in 1994 provided that the gradual tasks of certifications would cease to be carried out by offices, offices and city offices, while the ministers of the administrations adopted solutions on the termination of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts for offices and their offices in the area of individual counties and the City of Zagreb. There has been a lot of talk here about the relics of the past and about the laws that need to be changed. It was also talked about the darkness of socialism in which it was necessary to make certain provisions more modern, but no one here said exactly what it was about, so I would only warn that there was a service of state officials in the darkness who were without compensation to confirm the signatures and images. Of course, we can't bring public notebooks down to confirmation of signatures or copies, but that's a big part of their occupation and what they're actually doing. The key emphasis is free of charge. There has been a lot of talk here about the need for modernisation of public note service, by electronic means means of delivery of transcription, digitisation, etc., but the availability of services means, above all, free of charge. It's free of charge. What is electronically available is not available if someone has no money to pay that fee, and if it is not a small fee, I will remind you that you also had an article in Free Dalmatia from 2020 on a case where a public notary in the desert procedure charged 3,400 kuna which is the usual tariff to be understood, where in fact, in this situation, a man did not have to pay for it. In this situation some heritage simply comes to the fact that they do not have these 3,000 kunas and the desert procedure cannot be completed. In that case, we were informed by the legal adviser of the public notary to refer the case to a court which conducts the matrimonial procedure without paying compensation other than the costs of the verdict. So if we're talking about a lot of people in the debate and mentioning that good practice is so-called. Disposing of courts, we have nothing against it, but the problem is paying again. So if in court this service can be obtained almost free of charge, and in the public notebook for 3,400 kuna, then we cannot possibly talk about this modernization actually going towards greater availability of the service. The greater availability of the service, I repeat, is a free service. A service which is not free is not available regardless of its format, electronic or on paper. So in that sense, it seems to me that we have some kind of modernization here again, which is our own purpose. We have otherwise asked Minister Malenica and we have not yet received an answer, and regarding this particular case, it means which one was described in the Free Dalmatia. In fact, we've done a little research on why the fees are so high and the tariffs are really like that, and that's why I'm asking the question here, do these tariffs think they're going down, is that a key problem, whether the tariffs can be less. And now look at what it's absurd why this tariff is so big, let's say for inheritance. This tariff is so high for inheritance because it is determined by the Regulation on the amount of compensation and the costs of the public notary as the court's commissioner in the desert procedure. The tariff is literally 3,000 and more than 3,000 kuna for most of these procedures, meaning the value of the clean leave is determined according to the value of the leave at the time of the assessment, and most of them exceed the value of 35,000 kuna as determined by Article. Seven. If the value of the leave exceeds 60,000 kuna in addition to the amount of compensation of 200 kuna, another 100 kuna shall be paid for each of the initial 10,000 value of the rest, but not more than 2,500 kuna, so practically most of the parties shall pay that maximum amount. And what our proposal was to gradually set tariffs above those 35,000 kunas that I think will be realistically looking at for each real estate or for each land and to expand and above means an amount of 60,000 kuna in order for those who inherit more valuable property to be charged with more expensive tariffs, and for those who inherit less valuable property, if possible, lower tariffs, do we have the same amount that everyone pays in taxes regardless of whether you inherited the villa or inherited a piece of land? In that sense, again and in tax and here, it is not enough to do something available enough to say that it is a public service. And the public record isn't really public and available service, but it's really privatizing part of the state service. That's good now, but what's key and what can help people is that at least those figures and those tariffs are coming down. Public notation which is, in its essence, privatization of the part of the judicial system and the state apparatus cannot be described in the words described here, which means we relieve the courts, we increase the availability of this service, etc. We all know how our people are spent when they come into a situation where they have to do anything with some law firm or public notebook. In this regard, as in other cases and in the case of inheritance, it is a business that is literally carried out in a few minutes. So everyone who's been to the public notebook knows they spent a few minutes in his office, and for that service, they paid 50 if they were lucky, so here's to 3,400 kuna. So we appeal that the legal proposals are not kept on electronic solutions to digitisation that cannot be their own purpose but that this service is indeed done by what the Chamber of State or the Chamber of Public Note praises, which is publicly available to all available services. That's not the case now, so here we have situations where literally people can't inherit their country because they don't have 3,400 kunas to pay for the public notebook. It's a racket, not a public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106470	Mr. Davor Dretar will represent the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106471	Thank you very much, dear chairman, dear secretary of state, colleague and colleague. As regards this first law or the Law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which we can see in this text ourselves and the provisions no longer apply, there are no assumptions for their further application, there is absolutely nothing to object to. But I will somehow focus more on the law or amendments to the Law on Public Literature. It is certainly to praise the modernization of the introduction of all possible information benefits offered to us today and in the work of public records offices. What a respected colleague Pavić has asked here for a request for obtaining a certificate from a public notary or a public record office to submit to the chamber, in order therefore to obtain a qualified certificate for electronic signature and electronic stamp issued by a qualified trust service provider. We don't see, we say, and we're going to point out once again that great need for the chamber to interfere in any way. But what may be questionable, and we see that it hasn’t changed since the first reading, I will emphasize through several articles of these legal changes. Art. Article 27 is amended as follows: Article 42(3) states that a public notary, counselor and trainer shall respond as well as a public notary for damage caused by a violation of official duty in the course of an independent course of action in accordance with this law. The public notary shall correspond in solidarity with the public notary, counselor and trainer if it has authorised them to perform a specific operation on their own. The public notary has the right to regress, according to the public notary, counselor and trainer under the general rules on the regency of officials. What is certainly important is the last sentence, and it reads, for the damage caused by a public notary, adviser and trainee of the state is not responsible. So, the state here has made it clear, if you screw up sory, it's your own fault. But the state doesn't give in so lightly. 42. which amends Art. 42. 122 of this law in which it is said when we talk about selecting a public notary, these places are filled in as it says in the legal text based on competitions which are called and carried out by the chamber. On the occasion of the elections, particular consideration will be taken of the success achieved in the legal study and the work done hereafter. St. 6 is very important, and it is about the choice and appointment of a public notary to be decided by the ministry on the basis of the previously obtained opinion of the chamber and the public notary. If he opposes the appointment of a certain public notary public notary within the next year, he cannot seek the opening of a public notary in his office, except, of course, he would once again ask all the applicants in Croatia to keep an eye on grammar, so that sentences do not start with a conditionality, but obviously we will have to hire some linguists. Here it is questionable, so I remind you just before I read to you about the damage caused by a public record neighbor, a consultant and an apprentice of the state is not responding. But here we see that the state, through the chamber and the ministry, is directly involved in the process of selecting a public notary. As in the first reading, I will read again the letter that came to me from a public record office, which reads: “The Law on Public Literature is completely against the Regulation on the evaluation of candidates in the process of appointment of judges, which provides for a procedure for the appointment of judges, such as the Law on Public Note, which provides for the procedure for the appointment of public notary neighbours, although public notarys should have the same expertise and carry out tasks in the jurisdiction of the courts as the Commissioners. That Regulation requires that the judge, in addition to having to fulfil the formal conditions, must pass the examination of the knowledge and the structural conversation on which questions are asked and interviews shall be held for a reasonable period of time and, of course, assess whether the applicant has the necessary skills and abilities. Therefore, only after a professional interview has been carried out pursuant to Articles 7 and 9. The rules on the evaluation of candidates and the final decision on the appointment of a person as a judge shall be taken following the examination carried out in accordance with Articles 10 and 12 of the same Regulation. Of course, if a person fails, he will not be appointed. Such a possibility for a public notary was taken here after all. He must hire a person for whom a knowledge check and a structured conversation has found that he may not meet the requirements for the place for which the same person appears. Is that exactly how it works? Not at all. Of course, it is impossible to imagine that a public notary in his office would go to such a responsible place as a neighbor hired a person he had never seen in his life. But now we have a strange reality game and a legal text in which we still have nothing solved. We will address the parliamentary question of the respected Minister Malenica, so we will ask for an answer to the question really as I did to the respected Mr Salapic in the replica, as to the number of public notebooks within a certain time limit, let's say during 2021, I expressed opposition to the appointment of neighbours in my own office. Or actually it's done the way a lady who has a public record office told us herself. The appointment of a public record neighbor in practice looks like this. A public notebook finds a person who will perform his duties as a neighbor, and then hires him in his office as a lawyer. After that, the need for a public commentary to the chamber shall be reported on the basis of which an ad in the National Journal of the European Union shall be made. Already an employee, this said lawyer submits an application to this competition, and then several days later, in the public record office, they answer the phone and answer the question whether this competition is real or only pro form, or whether you are already employed, except that you will no longer be called a lawyer, but will be called a public notary. So we see for ourselves that this law is not precise, the law or the state is at one point being built on any responsibility but still wants to have an impact on the choice of a public notary. Even during the first reading, the respected secretary Salapic answered my question that it is not quite true that public notebooks are on the market, but that they are, that is, their offices are persons, or offices that are doing serious jobs, and they are not left to choose from the workers they are working with. A rather interesting and strange structure and logically and at many other levels, I must admit it does not hold water. However, in any case, these legal changes will be supported by the House of Homeland Movement’s club, and we will have to consult for a little while. We have nothing to say against modernization, against speeding up the process, but we're sure we're going to need a little more thought, so we're going to make a decision by the vote. Until then, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106472	Thank you. Ms. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106473	A few days ago, Justice Minister Ivan Malenica, in the Assembly, presented a piece of information that should be all of us concerned. The minister praised that Croatian courts entered 158,000 cases in 2021 more than in 2020. He didn't offer any explanation of the rising figures. Is it any new trend that arises because of the growing difficulties in economic flows? I expect answers to these questions. Is it possible that there are some changes in the system of keeping records of court cases and proceedings, or is there something third that we cannot identify so far? In any case in Croatia, the situation of court cases has been systematically monitored for some time, by a methodology that is relatively stable and gives us a good basis for the comparative monitoring of general trends in the work of the judicial authorities. Accordingly, our judicial policy as a whole and most other sectoral policies deal only with the treatment of symptoms, i.e. disorders and anomalies while the basic variable of judicial statistics annual inflow of cases is more or less from year to year very similar and makes almost infallible mathematical constant. Although it seems at first glance that the judiciary is not the subject of today’s debate, the facts are quite the opposite. The fact is absolutely impenetrable and legally prescribed. That the public record activity in Croatia includes one large slice of the judicial cake. The performances in the first row are a large part of the work that is being done today in public records offices. What we could say is that without these functions, this law that we are discussing today would look different, but the reality of our judiciary at some point was such that it could not be counted on to perform certain judicial functions effectively, or even when it was indisputable or routine cases, such as enforcement on the basis of credible documents. Therefore, the state as well as known wandered in search of a solution to... between the public notebooks and the rejected and forgotten public perpetrators. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the gap between the need for an effective system of forced collection of civil obligations and the fact that public notebooks, regardless of the recent legislative provisions, are not and cannot be court, nor can the parties of the executive procedure guarantee the objectivity and impartiality of the court's essential characteristics. In any case, this government, as well as all previous ones, obviously takes public notebooks as a sort of task, primarily built on the fear that hundreds of thousands of executive cases are not poured into the courts and that is something that we as a parliamentary minority cannot influence right now, we are therefore left to discuss this concrete final draft of the law. Although this law does not have a wide range of primary addresses, it still needs to be given due attention because the material and other interests behind it are quite large, this was also the case in previous discussions and the completion of this law certainly did not go away and we are now coming to what is important in the final proposal of the law, so it did not go without pressure and lobbying in the government, the Ministry of Justice and in all the other competent authorities that influenced this final appearance of the law. It is enough to compare what this bill looked like in the first reading and what this final proposal looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference is huge. Many legal articles that were proposed to be changed in the first reading have disappeared from the final bill, and others have changed instead. If you look for an explanation of the differences between the first and second reading of the law, you will see that these differences are mainly due to lobbying from public records, while the explanations that the ministry gives us are more than a shura and come down to the phrases about nomotechnics. In view of the number and significance of the difference between the first and second readings, we rightly wonder what happened. This law, like any other, has passed all previous stages in its creation, starting with an impact assessment through inter-resent coordination between ministries, there has been some public consultation, and it is truly surprising that after all this, so many provisions in the second reading were to be amended. Suddenly, a Croatian public record chamber appears and is based on its observations that are not available to us as parliamentary representatives in the reasons of the law to a greater extent. Large differences between two readings are in themselves a problem because there is not enough good argument for them. Only two explanations are possible, either the ministry has given in to some of us unknown outside institutional pressures, or the proposal for first reading is simply prepared amateurally and recklessly, nor would it be the first time. There's no third reason, and it can't be. In this debate, I would also like to make one general observation that through a series of laws in this mandate, HS will settle a whole set of issues directly related to the public service. In addition to these amendments to the Law on Public Literature earlier today, it had to be discussed, and now it has been united, and I will continue to discuss this in an individual debate, on the termination of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Scriptures and transcripts, which are largely conditional on the fact that the affairs of this law have been subject to in the last 20 years. They've taken over the public notebooks. Earlier in this term, amendments to the Implementing Law which sought to cover the gaps associated with the participation of public notebooks as Commissioner of the Courts in the executive proceedings have been adopted, and in public consultation we can find amendments to the Law on Land Books according to which the notebooks will literally take over a large part of the jobs when proposing enrolment in land books. If that is the case, I would like to remind the representatives of the ministry in a very broad way that there are provisions in the current Inheritance Act concerning desert procedures, which are atavism from another time. It is specifically about the legal provisions which require parents to collect data on potential heirs and leftovers when recording the fact of death, which is completely inappropriate and which is why no parent should be concerned at all. So today, as my contribution, I will show once again that the opposition is constructive to submit a proposal to amend the Law on Inheritance with a simple goal of keeping the burden of determining the heirs and the leftovers entirely on the notebooks and courts as bodies of the proceedings and on the heirs as parties to the proceedings. In addition, I will end with this, and I would like to draw attention to the representatives of the ministry as they discuss in public these days the single register of accounts managed by FINA, and who should have access to that same register and on what basis. I think that the Ministry of Justice and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance should consider whether such free access to individual data from registers and bodies leading the process should be considered in order to avoid parties in the process themselves investigating something that is already known to the State and which should be a principle that applies in all types of proceedings, judicial, administrative or other third parties. So I will repeat once again, with the usual regret that there are no more interested in the debate and the fact that the debate in these two cases has come together, that here, in this presentation, there are also very specific issues concerning the links of exactly the situation in the judiciary and public record activities, which relate to why 158,000 cases occurred more than in 2020. We need concrete explanations of these upward trends. And the second question is, where does such a change come from between two law readings? I hope that, in the final address, the proposing representative will be bold to come to this pay phone and answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106474	Thank you, you will remain, to choose as an individual debate now, now possible replicas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106475	In an individual debate, I'm going to talk about the Act of Signing, manuscripts and copying. The law I am discussing here seems to be a subject that has long been overcome, minor or something that should be routinely passed without more discussion and reflection because it proposes to abolish the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts which has been in force since 1974 and whose provisions are mostly no longer applicable and are put out of force by the provisions of other laws. However, this law as a relic of the past has caused certain reactions to the public, and the media reminds us that there are other laws in Croatia that date back to the times of the former states that no longer exist. From time to time, the public will recall that in Croatia, the Law on Public Order and Peace Infringements has been in force since 1977, and in which fines are still expressed in German marks that do not exist for almost a quarter of a century. The ideological and political struggle and the legal struggle will really remind us that the matter of abortion in Croatia has been governed by a law that was passed in the time of the former Yugoslavia, which has been in effect since 1978. Until recently, the Law on settlements from the cheerful and picturesque 1980s was in effect, which we finally replaced a month ago with a new law. Just a week ago, we were here discussing the Law on the Procedural Procedure whose basic text was published in the Official Journal of the SFRY at the beginning of 1977, and since its adoption it has been amended almost 30 times, and in this law, as infrequently in which language, notional and legal concepts are clashed entirely with different legal order and even significantly different language rules. And the word is from one of the capital laws in the Croatian legal order that deals with the largest number of judicial proceedings in the Republic of Croatia and whose quality has a significant impact on the efficiency of the work of the entire judicial system. If you are closer to promoting the weariness of both the Law on Procedural Procedure and the Act on Extraparation Procedure, if you add the fact that the current Executive Act is the third order passed by Croatia, it is clear that the modern Croatian state and its legislator have failed to adopt a modern and stable legislative framework for the settlement of disputed and uncontested court proceedings in cases belonging to private legal relations for the first 30 years of our statehood. It is not necessary then to go far to find the culprit for our economic failures, to look at a wider picture of this or why serious business in Croatia does not want to invest and why entrepreneurship is not popular. In doing so, do not take my debate as a general criticism of the quality of normative activity in the former countries. It was likely on average at a higher level, but it was also significantly weaker in intensity than it is today. The lawyers of that time had more time, and legal relations were where and where less complex than today. The examples we have in the regulated Western democracies that are the heiress of a liberal model of civil law order and who have enjoyed, for a long time, the benefits of a stable legal arrangement are so far inaccessible to us. Examples such as the Austrian General Civil Code, which has been in force in Austria for more than 200 years, seem unreal to us. Too often new laws are passed with us or changed mostly without concrete content and so that the owners make an impression in the public that they are doing something. Finally, by returning specifically to today's topic of the agenda, I would like to conclude that the repeal of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is nothing more than formalisation of the legal reality that has existed in the legal order long ago. The public service has long since consumed a good part of the jobs to which this law applies, and the adoption of a new Regulation on office operations has ensured that after the law ceases to apply, there is no legal gap, thus creating assumptions that this law is abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106476	Thank you, you're done, thank you. Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106477	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I asked the minister, but I cannot get a clear answer as a parliamentary representative. I've been curious since we passed this law, and the tariffs will be passed by the Minister by his own rules. So we're going to give legitimacy, the council is going to accept the ministry's proposal, and we're actually going to give them an amen to give tariffs, the price of tariffs to show people as much money as they can think of. So it's unclear to me why in the first place, this comes to the assembly when rules will determine the price that is very important, which is very high in public notebooks. So, there's no answer to what we're even serving as Parliamentarians if the public service coster didn't give us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106478	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106479	I will repeat once again what I have pointed out in the debate on behalf of the club, which we have previously discussed is that there is a big difference between the first and second reading of the law and that suddenly in the second reading of the law there is a Croatian public record chamber and the basis of its remarks which are not available to us as Assembly representatives with detailed arguments, the law is changed to a greater extent. That's how much we can actually influence these laws. And what my question remains in the air is whether this law, given these differences, is the result of different lobbying and if it is whose lobbying is because we here should have a transparent process which, as Parliament's advocates, we can also influence unequivocal arguments so that we can support or reject any final draft law. Now I'll agree with you no matter what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106480	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106481	Thank you. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would just short here, and I don't even need these five minutes to say the senselessness of ourselves if we let laws come to us in this way where we don't define the basic settings of the law, and that's what our citizens are interested in, let the chamber do their job, but we're Parliamentarians and we'd tribal to get a cost. the price of services to be paid by the citizens, i.e. tariffs to be paid to public notebooks. That's the question I'm terribly curious about why the minister will be debossed from who I don't know to sign, and we're going to give him support for this law as a council? And a very important question for me and here is being asked by the secretary of state has explained that this time in this law the minister will be present at the reception with the relief and relief of these reception conditions for the public notary, the reduction of the employment I do not know of for years, and so, stated that the minister will be present in the interview. So far there has been a commission, the commission has proposed a minister, probably so, I don't know if it was a procedure and the minister has signed it. I don't know what it means to have the minister present at the interview, I don't know that it's even closer to the one that will require a party card and an even greater influence from the Minister himself than an independent commission in essence which is not independent, which is largely likely, after the minister's decision has been made. So there's no change. And it is a very important issue to cover public notebooks, which is mentioned occasionally in areas where it is far from public notebooks' headquarters that will occasionally leave public notebooks in these areas. But here the key question arises when we talk about the judiciary because the secretary and extended a little topic at one point to a whole judiciary in which the people have no trust, I would now say that five key things, five things in the biggest mistrust that our own and the businessmen and citizens have, and that is the key condition that we are not developing economically, that is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, and always the judiciary. And I don't understand that territorial division, you took the number of certain inhabitants, but I mentioned here an example of how clean and crucial political action was made in terms of courts that are networks of courts, municipal courts. For example, I mentioned the Cetina region, so in other parts of Knin, so other parts of the hinterland, the square end of the area larger than Međimurje County, by the number of inhabitants more than Ličko-Senj County was left without a court, and Emperor Francis Josip opened it to me in 863, so in modern Croatia we lost that municipal court knowing that the areas of the Cetin region of Split were some 70, 80 even more kilometers away means in two directions it came between 150 and 200 km in one day the users had to travel. So that reminds me of public notebooks. I would just once again point out that I'm interested in and answers as a parliamentary representative, is this always about some bag, about money, and we don't have an insight into it. If the chamber has any suggestions and we are not well enough that we should at least see if prices are terribly high, terribly mainly in the debate after the death of the inheritance and the rest of course. So I would like to point out once again that I expect this problem to be resolved in this assembly and expect the voice of all parliamentary deputies to be delivered we can also postpone this reading, continue in the next reading there is always a possibility. However, why would some lobbies be above parliamentary deputies and at least as information, here, rather than getting half-information, and ultimately be a statement from the government and the ministry that it was passed by the law, and that they had passed a rule that would regulate the price. This would be much more transparent and clear, I believe the secretary of state knows that, but obviously, the strategy was to bring the tariffs for public notebooks to the codebooks. :
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106482	The first replica of Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106483	Dear fellow Bull. How would you explain the fact that there are so many differences between the first and second readings? Do you think it's about certain extra-institutional pressures or the first reading of the law was sloppyly prepared which would not again be the first case in HS?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106484	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106485	Well, obviously the impact of the lobby, so that's where the lobbies did their part because of that change drastically, and I expect that we Parliamentarians raise our voice and that we clearly say that we didn't come here exclusively for exercise and we'd say rather on the fiscultura to raise our hands and practice moving because it's pointless for us to stay in my town of Sinj at this moment than to discuss it here and from this because this concerns all the citizens of the Republic. In fact, we are discussing the law that will be followed by the regulation, essentially, where prices and tariffs will be, and prices and tariffs will be unknown to us, to us MPs, but that's why the government will have. Proposers will have coverage for that decision and those regulations and in the key matter, we're talking about a matter of tariffs and prices, drawn up obviously whether it's from a chamber or someone else I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106486	And Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106487	Your Honor, you come from the city of Sinj, there you are mayor and you probably know the situation with public notebooks in your area, so you probably know their business or needs that they must meet for our fellow citizens who are in rural areas. Namely, today it is no problem to be a public notary in the great middle, it is not a problem to be a notary in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Sibenik, but it is a problem to be a notary in Sinj who has jurisdiction over a large part of the territory and in neighbouring municipalities. Namely, if a person wants to verify the signature, and is unable to reach him in the office he must go to her, drive on the hills, I don't know for hours perhaps through, perhaps through the forest parts and by the macadam to get to that person in order to charge him 160 kuna + VAT for what he came in and to earn 40 kuna on the approval of the signature. Who can afford that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106488	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106489	Undeveloped areas are otherwise forgotten and are always seen by the prism of the law through large areas, and these areas which unfortunately have been evicted and national security due to empty spaces and territories, this is also happening in this case, and on other issues, it is not easy to be a doctor of general practice in an undeveloped area where there are not enough patients or, somewhere in the urban environment such as Zagreb, Split, Osijek, outside of these cities everything is falling apart, everything is falling apart, we are at risk of national security and so on in this case. So these areas are not at all covered by laws, nor are they trying to find a solution to these areas for both users and service providers, and that is one of the key problems, and that is why we are going to have more and more evictions of people if the damages are immeasurable because of a legislator who doesn't even think about these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106490	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić also had an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to get back to this exposition of my fellow Bulls. I agree with the fact that this law is not written for small notebooks working in rural areas, and there is likely to be a problem with these areas because these notebooks are really hard to survive, and there is absolutely nothing in the law to help them. As I said in the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I understand why the legislator did not accept the proposal that the public notary had freedom in selecting neighbours. We would accept this refusal if we did not know that in practice there are situations where neighbors who are children of public notebooks, nephews, relatives, etc. are employed in the public record office, etc. Of course, as you can imagine, the ministry made a decision based on the previously obtained opinion of the chamber and the public notary, but it often deviated from that opinion. Similarly, there were competitions for public notaries because the competition was opened by the chamber, and after the invitation to tender, it gave an opinion which, in principle, along with other conditions that the public notary had to satisfy, was to be served for the appointment of public notebooks by the minister. That the whole public tender procedure is just a fig leaf for a minister who then uses his discretionary right to appoint whom he wants without actually choosing the best candidate and that is actually an abuse of discretion I will show you on the following example. After an open invitation to tender issued by the public notation chamber for the place of the public notary, despite the fact that the candidate for the public notary met all the conditions, he had the best grades in the judicial and public record exam, which he had done public records for years in a smaller environment in which he had to travel every day from the city for which a tender for the public notary was opened, which the chamber gave him the best opinion regardless of what the defender was, the Minister of Justice unfortunately appointed a public notary who had conditions worse than... the candidate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's according to the article. 14. The Law on Public Note is a solution of the Justice Minister's final candidate, which the minister did not appoint regardless of the fact that he was a better-quality candidate has not been appointed. The only thing left to do was to initiate the administrative dispute, of course the administrative dispute had not entered the procedure for months, and the public notary which was appointed in a way that the minister did not respect the law remained a public notary, and our mentioning a better candidate was condemned to wait for the administrative dispute to finally enter the procedure, which had not already entered about 9-10 months. This is why we don't believe in the uniform implementation of the law, and unfortunately we don't even know who to trust to respect the laws passed by this high house if they're not respected by the Minister of Justice himself. The example I set is true, it happened recently, and if the BOOK and the DORH are interested in punishing those who break the laws, and yet the members of the government are at my disposal, and I will gladly give them all the details I know. To all of you who are in the assembly and who are following us on television, it is certainly clear what is the basic condition to be favored and ultimately appointed in our country which is far known as a state that offers equal opportunities to everyone, but provides some more equal opportunities. In the new bill, we have another proposal that I can claim is another fig leaf that will allow the minister to name literally whoever he wants, and without being able to at least complain about the other candidates. It is a task force headed by the minister, which will hold talks with candidates and will then appoint public notebooks at his own discretion. I think that this example clearly showed that the Law on Public Literature has records and therefore I believe that it needs to be amended by new law rather than by amendments and additions because there are too many articles that have to be changed. That's what we talked about on behalf of the club, and I'll talk about it in the final word, namely, we need to change this law urgently, and we need to make sure that the minister finally has to obey the law and that he has to make decisions in accordance with the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106492	Thank you, stay, you have replicas. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106493	I agree with you, colleague Pavić, I just don't think I'd say "failing" any more, this failure turns out to be someone's slip, and these discounts are one conscious action that leads to the possibility of abuse and different reading of legal provisions in terms of guessing someone. I'm also finding other irregularities in the law, so here's what I'm asking you, I'm asking you, and I'm asking the motionary's representative, maybe someone knows what the next one should mean. Article 12 is replaced by the following: and 18b. The titles above read as follows: ‘The information system for the work of public notebooks and in its work, public notebooks use the information system approved by the chamber’. There is no further explanation of what the information system is, what system it is and why it is necessary to approve the chamber. Are you maybe smarter than me about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106494	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106495	Well, I happen to know something about it. In fact, it was the chamber that was supposed to bid for applications that would work in public notebooks. Of course it's not the same for everyone. So you have several all the applications that work in the territory of the entire Croatian public notebooks and because the chamber has given its signature that it is licensed by them and that public notebooks can use them in their offices. Many notebooks had their applications, had their systems that worked, but they had to simply reject them because they had to connect, or buy, that system that was licensed, or systems that were licensed to allegedly connect to some unique system, and that could somehow be controlled and exchanged in a different way. So far we know how it works, we know what's been going on recently, we know how this was confirmed by the documents, we know what happened after that in fini as what happened to the debtors. There are big problems, there is no real register, no... a system that would exist to make them work better. [[I don't understand the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106496	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106497	Thank you very much. Your comment means employment, i.e. The choice of candidates is also unacceptable to me. You said that basically before the minister approved, now the minister is basically standing there and sitting down and approval, I mean during the talks. So it is no change except as the message is sent exactly the minister will decide he is God and father and everything and the Holy Spirit and everything. So it's basically the same thing, nothing has changed, but it's defined as you said who will be admitted, the one who has a party card. But I'm interested in this other part as a parliamentary representative, which is why we're used to legislators. the legislator, and as a legislator we always get superficial documents here for discussion, and in key things like tariffs, this is about tariffs at least as information we get and that the whole law is changing between two readings literally is not clear to me why If you can explain it to me. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106498	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106499	Your Honor, I have repeatedly said here that I am not satisfied with the fact that we are getting laws here saying that the minister will bring 7, 8, 9, 15 regulations, I have no idea how many regulations under which law because we don't know what those rules will say. And there are big problems. And with that, we just can't fight. There is simply no consensus that at the level of the assembly such a decision must be made that everything must be contained or that we have contributions already made to those regulations so that we know what they will write and that we can influence these regulations in order to make it more and more expensive in practice. We've talked about it many times, we've turned our attention to secretaries, ministers, assistants, deputies, no one's listening to us. No one wants to hear what would be better, better quality for working in practice. To allow the laws to be implemented on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in a unique way. And what's happening with this law right now is another step back. Unfortunately, in one part, in the other part is forward because there is still digitisation and new systems so hard to tell what to do when voting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106500	Thank you very much, thank you. And now final Mrs. Lukacic and Mr. Right after that Mr. Habian who shares those five minutes with Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106501	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here I will briefly repeat why the law is repealed, which is prescribed to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. So that's the law the Republic of Croatia took over in the '90s. The year he changed in '94. However, the adoption of the Law on Public Registration in Croatia established modern public notation as a public service and the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions provided that the gradual offices, city offices and facilities would cease to carry out this work, however, that the administration ministers would adopt solutions, of course, and would continue to do so. The ministers of the administration gradually made such solutions. The last solution was adopted in 2016 on the termination of operations in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the Office of State Administration and County in Dubrovnik, in the exhibition of the office in Lastovo, so on 7 June 2016. Following this, the provisions of the law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are no longer applicable, and there are no legal assumptions for their application anymore. Since the matter governed by this law has been taken over by other regulations in the Republic of Croatia primarily by the Law on Public Literature. Therefore, and in order to achieve the security of an objective legal order, this law needs to be put out of force. And this is foreseen by this law to put the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts out of force because, as I said, there are no legal assumptions for its application anymore. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106502	Thank you. Mr. Habian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106503	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's briefly in this remaining time just to repeat, so this Law on Public Note, I think it's actually continuing on what we recently discussed about amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register. In this way, we are actually rounding up that story where it will be facilitated by parties and all stakeholders in the process of establishing new companies and until registration. In fact, this process is on the verge of modernisation and harmonisation and with European law, the modernisation of the entire judiciary. I'd look back here on just one thing that's actually here at the end here, and it's a matter of tariffs and tariffs. So, so far, it's clear to the MOST colleagues who've potentiated it so far that it's been done by the Public Bookmark Chamber. It has been imposed here that this is the solution that the minister is the one who brings the tariff, determines the tariff as unfavourable. I think that it is precisely greater responsibility now to the Minister for the reasons that public notebooks are as independent and independent persons by the state to have in certain matters public authority and it is logical that the minister who has the authority determines the tariff and in these cases will certainly be more controlled than it has ever been before in the Public Bookmark Chamber. So, I think Mr. Bull is making it more clear now, no matter what he's not here. And one more thing, don't talk about the appointments of some public notebooks by, therefore, ministers. I personally know, so at a time when MOST had its minister what was happening in some cities, and also when MOST had his minister, he could do anything that now says didn't change well, so he didn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106504	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106505	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. If a colleague of the Habian is familiar with what insinuates some of the criminal acts being carried out, he does not fulfil his civic duty because he has not reported it. Otherwise, anyone can talk like this from a pay phone. So I expect my colleague, Habib, to report something that is a crime, which he is obviously familiar with and what he is trying to insinuate behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106506	Thank you. There was a replica and there was a warning. Here you are, Mr. Habian, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106507	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. So, a colleague steps away from the usual behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. I wasn't talking about any crime at all, you obviously recognized yourself. I have launched as much as possible what the law requires, and this is administrative proceedings and later proceedings before the High Court of Justice. So I don't know where anyone mentioned criminal proceedings. Obviously I'm saying you recognized yourself in that. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106508	Thank you. A warning because it was a replica. I look forward to the day when such things will be fined. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106509	This Regulation shall enter I only recognized that in general when anyone in HDZ is speaking, usually some kind of criminal procedure either in mind or in language or in progress, so I logically linked it to your exposure, and you were talking about some irregularities that should have been changed, so it would be useful to have been very direct if you really had information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106510	It's not a round table, and it was a replica. And another warning. And thank God now I'm giving access to this place of Sabina's Voice so she's giving warnings further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106511	Good afternoon, everyone! We move on with the closing words. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS, distinguished colleague Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106512	Thank you. Today's lesson regarding this agenda point is to guard the HDZ reform of the judiciary. The same lesson, the same conclusion, was true when we discussed the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorney's Office or last week the Law on Penalty, and the Law on Criminal Procedure. More or less in this law lacks the essence of these previous laws. This law simply harmonizes the work of the public notebooks with the century in which we live. We've introduced public records in electronic form. Uh, you're not reforming it! Again, what matters is this law leaves out. And here I will refer and refer to the individual exposure of my colleagues, because that case of the appointment of a public notary is not something that happened once or in the term of this or that government. It's something that's repeated over and over again, so for at least 20 years, here's how much I have direct experience in the justice system. And why is that? I'm not going to go in now if it's about ignorance, ignorance or someone having wrong intentions, but ever since we introduced public notebooks as special service, we haven't clearly figured out what public notebooks should be. There's a certain difference between public notebooks and lawyers. In fact, lawyers are an independent and independent service that provides assistance to all citizens in accordance with the constitution and the law. Lawyers also have their own chamber, the chamber determines the tariff and in some ways, let's say, with clear and predetermined prices providing a service on the market. When we talk about public notaries, if they are something else, they still have public authority, they are the holders of the public powers assigned to them by law and in that part they do work on behalf of the state, which means that they must enjoy their trust in a certain sense. Now, where's the problem and where's the name problem? So we have a limited and limited number of people who can become public notebooks all the time. This is systematically limited to protect caste and that spoil cake they share by providing and providing their services as public authorities. There is no such situation for lawyers. For lawyers, we don't have a limited number of new lawyers in the system that can exist, but actually only the market is pushing them out, how profitable they can be themselves. The problem here is that we also say that we have an action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services, we also think about public notebooks, and then through this law, we will shorten the time of the necessary working experience in legal affairs, after having passed the judicial examination to obtain the conditions for making public records, and then determine the shorter duration of working time on legal affairs after the legal examination that is required to be appointed to a public notary. So that's where we cut the criteria, that's where they need to be strengthened just because, unlike lawyers, public notebooks have public authority. And it's quite another pair of sleeves that we're going to redefine the number, or I'm going to cancel the number of public notebooks, then we're not going to have this problem with double criteria and from actually, fake public tenders. Whatever we think of public notebooks, the fact is that they sort of do business as a small craftsman, as small companies. And yes, they're mostly family-based, and there's really nothing wrong with that. I don't mind one.../incomprehensible... in Zagreb you have as many of them as you want from your knees to your knees. So how do you think these public notebooks first became neighbors and then the public notebooks in your mother's or your father's public record office? No news. I don't have anything against it because someone invested in building their own small public record company, but I have against it being that at the same time someone else, some child, who had been properly educated, took all these extensive professional exams, disabled access to the market to establish and open their own public record office and to operate in it. Now, this law is not touched in any way by this matter. And what I think is particularly controversial in the reasoning of this Law is that the upcoming planned expansion of the circle of public notebooks, three dots, thus reducing the number of new public notaries. My question is, why didn't we immediately discuss all the issues of public notebooks, and what new public notebooks will do under these amendments and additions? Why every once in a while, another law without any plan or order. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106513	Thank you, too. And the last final presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will have a distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106514	Since I see that the proposaler's representative has not come forward with the closing statement, I can only repeat those questions that have remained unanswered in the debate on behalf of the club that I have already highlighted. Many legal articles proposed to be amended in the first article have disappeared from the final draft of the law. Instead of them, some others change. If we look for an explanation of the differences between the first and second readings of the law, we see that the differences are mainly due to lobbying from public records, while the explanations that the Ministry gives us are more than a shura and come down to phases, different phrases about nomotechnics. Given the number and significance of the difference between the first and second reading of the Law, I am justifiably wondering what happened here. This Law, like any other, has passed all previous stages in its creation, has been done even of course, public consultation and indeed wonders after all, so many provisions in the second reading had to be changed. All of a sudden, Croatia's public record chamber appears and based on its observations that are not available to us as parliamentary representatives, the law is changed to a greater extent. The big differences between two readings in themselves are the problem because there is no good enough argument for them and here, I repeat, there are only two explanations possible. Either the Ministry gave in to some, unknown, non-institutional pressures, or the proposal in the first reading was prepared amateurally and thoughtlessly. There's no third reason, and it can't be. There is obviously no interest in this debate, which is evident from these erected microphones, so as if we are in the field of macaque, not in the Croatian assembly where black microphones are in front of us and we do not see the faces of the representative who would overshadow them. But these are for us, we can tell, the parent themes. So much as we're the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, and now we're editing matter regarding the judiciary. And I will go back to what I mentioned in the introduction, which provides a broader picture and insight into the very state of things when we talk about the Croatian judiciary. Minister Malenica was right here in the Assembly, responding to the replicas of the MPs, presenting information that should be of concern to us. He boasted that Croatian courts were in 2021. receive 158,000 items more than in 2020. We don't have an explanation of these figures, is it about a new trend because of the growing difficulties in economic flows, is it about changes in the system of court records and procedures or something else that we can't identify right now. However, in Croatia, the situation of court cases has been systematically monitored for some time, with a methodology that is relatively stable and based on a comparative monitoring of general trends in the work of the judicial authority. And what is a sad fact is that our judicial policy as well as most other sectoral policies deals with the treatment of symptoms while... the variable of judicial statistics annual inflows of cases is more or less from year to year very similar and makes a constant in Croatia. When we go back to the law that was first here, the Act of Signing, manuscripts and transcripts that has been in force since '74. It is clear that the modern Croatian state, and I have given several examples of other laws and its legislators have failed to adopt a modern and stable legislative framework for the regulation of disputed and uncontested court proceedings in cases belonging to private-law relations. I don't need to, and I'll conclude with that, go far away to find the culprits for our economic failures or why no one wants to invest in serious business in Croatia and why entrepreneurship in Croatia is not popular. In order for all of this to be achieved, the precondition for economic growth and development is a regulated legislative framework, and what we are currently seeing is still not the case from these proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106515	Thank you. This is what we're done with the club fairs. Does the Secretary of State Salapic want to take the floor on behalf of the promoter? No, I don't. If I don't close the debate then we'll vote when the conditions are met. I will now declare only a short break of five minutes before we move to the next item of the agenda. So we continue the session at 12.45. MEETING AT 12:40 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106517	Now we move to the next two points united into one. These are: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, first reading, P.Z. No. 266 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 245 and subject to all the rules of second reading, including amendments which may be submitted until the end of the debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The State Secretary, Mr Josip Slapic, is in front of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. Will you take your word for it? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106518	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. So, we're discussing two laws, as far as the law on the termination of the Act of Confirmation of Signature and Prescription is concerned, ceases to apply. It is therefore a regulation that was almost 50 years old and since the adoption of the Law on Public Literature in 1993. Whose amendments and additions to the final text of the law will we discuss after this part, so this law ceases to apply. Why has it been so far since 2001?? So there was one change on March 1, '95. So in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and in the field of this office in Lastovo, the law was still in force. As regards the provision of an article. 16 of the law which ceases to apply until an office business regulation has been adopted in 2021. It was worth an article. The 16th of that law. So what it's all about is the taste of this whole thing, which is all about the law on the termination of the validation of signatures and transcripts, so it's been since '93. To this day, all of this has gone to the Public Note Act so that the public notebooks are the ones doing these jobs that were provided for by the law that we are repealing with this proposal. As for the difference in the Law on Public Literature between the first and second readings, therefore there have been some major nomotechnical procedures in the law, so something differs by changing articles first and second reading, and what I say did not change the taste of the final text of the Law on Public Notes but only this nomotechnical and technical part. So right at the beginning, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the amendment to the Committee on Law, which we received today in the morning at the committee debate, we accept. As regards the fundamental and important amendments to the Law on Public Registration, what follows the full reform of the Croatian judiciary, which is the further digitisation of the system and the system of public notaries, therefore rules on the issuing of documents in electronic form are regulated here, and in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register. Therefore, it was necessary to intervene in the Law on Public Literature when it comes to harmonising with these two laws which HS has already discussed and adopted. As far as other newspapers are concerned, it is therefore a line of participation of parties in the legal procedures, so all that follows other justice systems when it comes to modernising and informing the justice system, all in the sense that all services are better and equally available to our citizens. When we talk about equal availability of services, as regards those places in the Republic of Croatia that don't have public records offices here, we are now establishing an office day system so that people don't have to travel, but public notebooks would travel to office days in places where there are no public notebooks. As far as other newspapers are concerned, the new rules on how to choose public notebooks are particularly regulated here when it comes to filling or new public places in accordance with the regulations, and we now propose that this be a commission in the Ministry of Justice and Administration, headed by that commission, would be the minister of justice and administration. The same thing that has not been done so far with public notary candidates would be carried out with each individual conversation. So far, the justice minister has not personally participated in these talks under new conditions, so far, when he signed a decision on the choice of a public notary, that would be the case. Also, the mandatory information public records must have, which is the OIB, has not been so far. We also regulate the institute of the deputy public notary, and the institute of the deputy public notary. So far, this has not been regulated, the institute of the deputy public notary. And as for the deputy public notary, if the circumstances provided for so far are legal, the deputy public notary could only be for areas where the court's seat is located. The deputy public notary could now be any public notary or successor from other areas of the Republic of Croatia. We also regulate the cost and tariff of public notebooks. It will be a special regulation, and under this proposal the law will be passed by the minister of justice and administration, so of course in cooperation with the Public Bookmark Chamber. It is our goal, therefore, that these costs to the citizens, since this law also provides for new powers of public notaries as Commissioner of the Courts. Therefore, in those proceedings in which public notebooks can replace the court, these tariffs to our citizens should be controlled and therefore agreed with the Ministry of Justice and Administration. And we also make new rules when it comes to tight procedures, the responsibilities of public notaries in which to conduct tight actions against those notaries who therefore do not do their job well. The Code of Public Ethics is also in line with that. So, in agreement with the Public Bookmark Chamber, it's a very important thing that this Code of Ethics monitors other systems, but also the system of public notebooks. So that's what's going on between the first and second readings of some minor change. I say we haven't changed the taste as far as courts and judges of all levels of courts in Croatia, state lawyers, deputy state attorneys and the State's Attorney's system are concerned, as well for public notaries. So we plan this lifelong, professional training that will, therefore, comply with the specific regulations that will be passed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration. What we want for all systems of judicial authority and for public notaries, those who are in direct contact with citizens, that this lifelong education that follows the entire system in the Republic of Croatia will also be for this system of public notaries. Because it is very important that changes that are permanent, continuous and daily, be followed by public notebooks, since so far it has not been such a rule. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs I suggest these two laws be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106519	Thank you. First replica, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106520	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is after the amendment and addition of the Law on Commercial Society and on the Court Register and today's draft laws, we continue primarily with reform and digitalisation and justice and public administration, and I congratulate you on that. However, I would ask one question that may not be in the first place in these amendments, but I think it is certainly interesting and interesting, above all, about the legal profession, and this is specifically about certain deadlines that will change these changes. Specifically related to legal professions after a judicial examination has been passed in order to become a public notary or to approach a public notary exam, where it goes in favour, so persons and, on the other hand, change deadlines related to certain strict measures where in some way those persons who have violated the law are tightened, so if you can do so a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106521	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106522	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Therefore, so far it should have been in the case of a public notary after a judicial examination was passed for five years, a minimum of five years of working experience. We have now accepted certain suggestions to be four years of work experience and generally these quite strict, so the provisions that have been made can become a public notary we have reduced them not too much because we wanted to make more available, so that more candidates can report for public notebooks. Also, some changes here that are relevant in the taste will need certain rules to intervene further in the process, so these rules apply within six months of the adoption of this law or one year from the adoption of the law. Just like we had in our first reading, so it's very important that we here now allow those public records offices to employ more people than they could now if there was a need, because we're changing that with new powers to be given to public notebooks. Thank you very much. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106523	Mr. Bull, take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106524	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to clarify some of the things that are now mentioned here. We bring here changes to the law. The public notebooks and tariffs you specify will, as a rule, provide you with what will be the amount of these expensive tariffs. Then why are we here in the Parliament? Why is this not in the tariff proposal, but the rule will be passed by the minister, so it will certainly be at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we will give you as Parliament power to make it that rule amounts that are expensive anyway. After the death of family members, what is happening, what are the prices, what are the tariffs. And otherwise, what are tariffs? It is not clear to me, I ask the question here and through a replica which is why it is not defined by the law, that parliamentary representatives who vote on it are not led astray by those and also by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For these rules and regulations or all that the ministers bring is what they bring by their own free will. So I would suggest once again that tariffs should be in the law, this proposal, in amendments, and you, yes, also mentioned that you would be the minister for a conversation with a public, new reception code. I mean the minister to be with the notebooks? I don't know what effect it's going to be to select a quality other than what might require a party card from which the minister is. It'd be better if it was an independent body, a judicial body. Now, as far as Croatia is concerned, you mentioned the judiciary, how much the Croatian judiciary in the people has confidence. We know that the first five things that our citizens say are most trusted in, which is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary and the fifth justice system again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106525	You've listed four of them, but also another judiciary, the fifth judiciary is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106526	Here's a chance for you to say... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106527	This one's been granted a break with us going, and we're going to keep working right now. - Mrs. Crescent. Hope Ancient Budunski also replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106528	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature has been joined primarily for the purpose of introducing public notebooks in electronic form. In addition to modernising the business of public notebooks, the introduction of electronic public notary documents aims to ensure greater availability of public notebook services in places where it is not established, to establish a public notary’s seat through the establishment and performance of office days by official duty, so I am interested in what criteria will these seats be set elsewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106529	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106530	Thank you very much. Dear MPs already have a new criterion where we filmed the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and saw how and in what cities the number of inhabitants were, whether there were reductions, increases in population, what business environment, how many public notebooks under that rule should primarily be in that area. So when we filmed it, we brought in this Regulation about seats and the structure of public records offices. There is now a new competition in progress and one will be held by the end of this year. What is important and what we wanted to ensure is equal availability to all citizens of public records offices because there is a need for this. Of course the same where there is no we will now, after we pass this law, adopt special mandatory office days when a public notary under official duty will have to do in accordance with the law and regulations in those places that are territorially separated from these major public notebook seats. Then it'll be for the citizens of good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106531	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106532	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear secretary, I have two questions for you. The first question is why does the public notary have to contact the chamber in order to obtain a qualified certificate when all the notebooks already have qualified certificates to access the e-tax system? That's the first question. The second question, in the law, is that if the party approaches through a video conference, a procedure with the public notary that the public notary will determine its identity through electronic documents, how, in what way? We have a big problem with that, with identifying identity today when we come to the notebook's office and the notebooks don't recognize the forged documents, so I'm asking you to explain it a little bit because it's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106533	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106534	Thank you very much. If you have followed what I have exhibited at the beginning and what was in the first reading the mandatory content of the document is the OIB, so far the OIB of Citizens has not been the mandatory content of the public notation, now that this system of electronic documents is regulated, the system of online access to the public record office, therefore one of the conditions to determine the identity of the parties is also the OIB. According to the OIB, the public notary will verify which parties are involved. Similarly, what is important to say for all possible problems that could not be mentioned in the legislative proposal, normally the law is one general act, that we rules that will therefore be reunited with experts and working groups where public notaries and representatives of other institutions of the state will regulate this procedure, so we will not leave the case to go to the modernisation of the system and there will be problems in practice in implementing it. And as for why the chamber appears, and the lawyers appear to the bar, so it's a system that doesn't make sense to report to the Justice Department, so that's why that chamber has its own chamber. That's how it is in all EU countries, it's already 100 years old. It's an old faucet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106535	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106536	Thank you. You mentioned the coster and that the coster would be brought by the minister of justice. What we have as an objection to public notebooks and I am interested in how much this problem will be addressed and of course we welcome greater availability and information of the whole procedure, but the problem is not availability and information, but the problem is high costs and the coster is really too high and people are coming to us and you know from personal experience that this is a key problem, and sometimes it means 30 years ago. There was a service of civil servants who were certifying signatures and copies, and that service was completely free of charge. In order for something to be a public service and for it to be available, it must actually be cheap or it must be free, and it is not only a problem in the information and availability of the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106537	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106538	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there is a lot of pressure on citizens through various government decisions and as various institutions to abolish so far as there are a lot of burdens that citizens have had. As far as the public record tariff is concerned, I'm only going to say one example of why we're here now saying that we're going to make the tariff by the Justice Minister's decision. When we changed the Executive Act we therefore completely reduced to minimum costs by the maximum number of executions of public notebooks, above all we asked for a prior notice that the debtor would try to agree with the believer about, that there was no cost at all, and then in that whole story, at the end of all, one 30 kuna remains a public notary as a profit from those minima. That's what I'm saying about the biggest number of executions, so we went to intervene where we thought we had to. With these tariffs right now, I think it'll be perfectly consistent with what we think is enough for a public notary's work to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106539	Thank you. Mr. Katicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106540	The Honorable Chairman and State Secretary, and above all, since it is a united discussion of two points that are in some way difficult to connect, but still a few sentences. First of all, I think it is commendable that some regulations that are still in force from the former state are finally lifted, and I hope that there will be further steps in this direction because there are some that are still long ago forces on this one. As far as this public notation is concerned, I also think that the results of the introduction of public notebooks as an institute of public powers transferred from the court have shown good results, with these changes it certainly goes in this direction to further strengthen. So I ask you for a brief comment on whether and to what extent it is planned that, given the results achieved by public notebooks through public authorities institutions, this increases in terms and limits of number, reductions in the number of public notebooks that these jobs can and trained Work. [[I'm sorry, time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106541	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106542	Thank you very much. Speaking of new regulations, we're going to pass a new law on extra-parnian procedure by the end of this year, it's some of '40s. and some years still in force certain regulations. So we're working on that modernization of the system. As far as this role of public notebooks as Commissioner of the Courts is concerned, above all, our goal is to relieve the court of those things that a public notary might do to legal possibilities and powers. Now we've already got some procedures, and we can talk about costs and tariffs, so that depends on what's going on at the moment. So it's not quite so red and so white. It's also not like we're defending public notebooks and chambers now. So we are with citizens being satisfied, and everyone else doing their job to do their job in accordance with the powers and opportunities that a citizen can pay. And as far as we're concerned, we're thinking about some land-based library procedures being shared by public notebooks together with lawyers and the cost being lower and shorter than a court case would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106543	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106544	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I commend this, this information further and in fact the transfer and public record offices to online cooperation with the courts. I think it will certainly speed it up, and it will make it easier for the parties. As for what you said earlier, the public notebooks are in many proceedings commissioners of the courts and as you yourself said where courts can actually pass it on to public notebooks, it is also good because the courts are being released, so I wonder if you have thought about the contractual divorce of marriage that these proceedings be passed on to public records offices. I believe it would relieve the courts, and on the other hand, to facilitate and speed up proceedings where there is nothing disputed to make it possible. And that's the same thing. how I understood about the tariff that will now be practically regulated [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] In addition to the ministry's authority, I think that name is intended to be reduced to citizens. [[Thank you, Mrs. Jelkovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106545	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106546	Thank you, well-respected MPs, here we have jointly implemented legal changes when it comes to enforcement procedures and various laws in the domain of the judiciary. The goal is precisely that, therefore, greater availability and that the costs related to the different procedures from the simplest to the most complicated are above all cheaper for the citizens. Why this on-line information? You saw when we had court fees when it came to using modern technologies digitally, the tariffs were 50% lower for those who did not go the old way. So we're gradually doing it because we want the whole system to move on to modern, to be as little cost as possible. Somewhere we completely abolished the payment of certain fees where there was less revenue in the state budget, but to relieve the citizens. So this whole story and these contractual procedures, we're thinking about it and so it's that these procedures can be guided by them. All the aim is to speed up the process, reduce costs, increase citizens' availability in these smaller environments that they do not have to travel, have costs and so on to make the system work in a cheaper and faster way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106547	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106548	Thank you very much. I would ask the question I asked here at the station, to be told exactly why I would not have your tariff proposal as parliamentary representatives, not to have the minister decide by his own rules or by any other document. For what? Because we would have the opportunity to vote on those tariffs that are very important. Of course, it is also important to cover the area and the seat that was wrongly built in the case of courts. I know this Sinj, the Cetinski region and this vast area that is larger than Međimurje County, and by the number of inhabitants larger than Ličko, there are more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County where there is no municipal court, there is no municipal court. So I'm mostly interested in why there wouldn't be a tariff proposal in this section. And secondly, it's very important that you say this before the minister made a decision, and now the minister will be at the hearing of these, I don't know what that difference is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106549	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106550	Thank you, well-respected Representative Bulj, for the discretionary decision or the minister's decision when choosing a public notary to choose which one it will be. So, the minister is authorized by law after the entire process of selecting a public notary has passed. It is not by the minister himself but by a special commission with the consent of the public record chamber. Sometimes more candidates come forward. The minister signed for the one who received the best grades, consent and on the basis of talks on which the minister has no influence. So, the minister signed a decision on the choice of a public notary without even seeing who it was. So we've had some problems with that, and now we want everything to be transparent. First of all, the whole process is run by an independent commission. At the end of this, when the commission says which candidates are in the narrow circle, only then will it be at the end before the minister signs the talks with those candidates who are actually an independent commission. As for the tariffs in the law, it wasn't until now in any law other than those infringing when it comes to the amount of penalties that were in the law. So it's a living thing that's gonna [[Intruder: Thank you time.]] In accordance with the chamber of notebooks agree on a walk. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106551	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106552	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Salapic, here's a very precise question. Article 42 of these legal amendments, paragraph 6, let me ask you, do you have any idea what number of public notebooks have opposed the appointment of a public notary? Do you know the exact number? If no one stood up to them, it means they could have chosen them themselves. If he stood up to them, what is the number and what are the most common reasons? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106553	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106554	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I don't know the numbers by heart. There were certain objections, not so many. It's one brand that's first of all... is also in EU countries, and therefore there are certain practices that are positive within their activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been certain objections, there have been certain failures, there have been certain failures, as well as everything in life. We wanted this law after '93. the year to edit the system in collaboration with the public record chamber, and we also wanted the best people, the best candidates to perform such a responsible duty. So, we think it's a public notary's job that it's not just a credential or transcription or something like that. but with these new powers, it must nevertheless be persons who are primarily professional, stable, and also that the team that employs and selects the public notebook must be primarily a service to all our citizens. So I'd like to know exactly, but I can ask around while I'm sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106555	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take a word? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first Mr. Darko Klasic to speak in front of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106556	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. The law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts that we are discussing today was passed almost 50 years ago, and was passed by the Socialist Republic Assembly of Croatia. The Democratic Republic of Croatia is back in '94. decide that the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts will cease to be carried out in the offices and outposts of local self-government, but thus a special and separate transition in respect of each individual county has been adopted. The last such decision was taken by the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva in 2016. The law in question has become a relic of the past and I think we should have reacted before and made a legal decision in accordance with the situation applicable in practice. Unfortunately, there are also a number of laws in Croatia that are the legacy of the past, which have been taken over from the time of the former state and which we urgently need to replace with new, more modern laws in accordance with the time in which we live. As an example, they can state the Law on infringements against public order and peace, as well as the Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children almost four decades old. The provisions of the Law on Public Orders and Peace on the basis of which the police act were adopted during the totalitarian system and we are aware that they are incompatible with the existing democratic order. The law also needs to be changed or replaced urgently, along with a series of undefined or insufficiently clearly defined issues in this law, from regulating prostitution to banning the symbols of totalitarian regimes. Another law which remains in the past and which also needs to be revised is the Law on Health Measures to exercise the right to free decision on the birth of children who need to establish a clear legal framework for the termination of pregnancy. It is clear that the amendments to those laws can trigger additional ideological and political debates which unfortunately are not lacking in our society, which is probably one of the reasons why in 30 years of our independence and statehood we did not have the courage to change the laws that can cause additional divisions in our society, but also run and speed up changes. For the changes mentioned two laws of an undeniable relic of the past, it will be necessary in any case to reach a certain national consensus and to find an appropriate political will among all participants of the Croatian political scene. There is no doubt that these two laws, which I have spoken about under this debate, are definitely not in line with the new social circumstances as well as the implementation of the change in social and political order in Croatia. In this sense, HSLS supports the changes to such outdated laws because we aim to improve the efficiency of a country in which citizens believe and create a society in which everyone is certain that they will exercise their rights. The reduction and simplification of the legal framework is very rare and, at the same time, the necessary and desirable direction of legislative activity in Croatia, as liberals, is assessed by the political preference of the freedom and responsibility of citizens in terms of their life planning. In the Law on Public Literature, compared to the first reading of this bill, its improvement is visible, and I am particularly pleased that you have observed several suggestions that we have proposed during the first presentation of this bill, however, I do not think it is a good solution and where the amendment remains. Article 122, point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The 42nd amendments in this respect would refer to those two details. The public notary office may have three neighbours, and it is obvious that it is a concession to large public offices that have many, so I can say almost too much work at the expense of other colleagues. I believe that in any public office, regardless of the amount of work and the intended extension of the powers of the public notebooks, it is quite enough for two neighbours and two advisers to work, there is no need to amend the previous provision. Honestly, there are offices where public notebooks personally do very little or almost nothing, and most of the jobs are done by neighbors and other employees of the office. If the above changes remain, I find it counterproductive and unfair to most public notebooks and neighbours, all in favour of several large offices in large cities. If there is indeed an increase in the scope of the public notary section, a tender for new public records offices could always be opened, which I consider to be much more correct than the solutions that allow individual offices to build up jobs and neighbours. I am also sorry that the proposal is not accepted that when the appointment of new public notebooks, priority is given to neighbours with the highest internship. I think that the view of the profession would be correct if such provisions were incorporated into the law because it would make it impossible or at least reduce various pressures in the appointment of new public notebooks. Finally, I think that every member of the Republic of Croatia is the most professional candidate to be appointed public notary, of course respecting and respecting the criteria for all other candidates working in the judiciary and the state administration. We welcome the fact that this draft law seeks to ensure the availability of public records services in places where a public notary seat is not established because of a small number of inhabitants and less developed economic and legal traffic through the establishment and performance of office days under official duty determined by the Ministry after the attached opinion of the Chamber. Public notebooks should relieve the grants of these changes because proposals for entry in the land book will be addressed by electronic means, and companies should be able to be established remotely from the summer. In fact, the relationship between this regulation and the legal powers entrusted to it is quite delicate, but it is not inconsistencies only to take into account the fact that, in various laws, notaries are entrusted with a number of public powers from the exercise of the exercise of powers to desert procedures and that stable financing of their service is necessary to ensure the exercise of these public powers. Deregulation in the direction of non-limiting of their numbers seems certainly meaningful and desirable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106557	You, too. Mr. Michel Jaksic in front of the club, not Željko Pavić pardoned in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106558	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Changes in the environments in which public notebooks operate, the constant digitisation of all areas of human activity, the modernisation of equipment, the transition of many business entities to e-business, i.e. electronic business, and the transition to m-business, i.e. mobile business and the ine of changes that occur in an environment in which public notebooks work are certainly one of the valid reasons to digitise both the business of public notebooks towards users and not only within public records offices, i.e. the Public Bookmark Chamber. The introduction of new technologies in the work of public records offices allow the presence of parties through video conferences, making public records in electronic form, using digital signatures and time stamps by notaries are changes that the Social Democrats Club strongly supports and hopes and believes will continue to use new and official technologies in public notation. Moreover, the amendments to the public notation documents in electronic form and, unfortunately, the introduction of a digital signature were not the primary objective of this law but had already taken place as a consequence of the second objective, which is to enable the establishment and registration of remote companies. In particular, since the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register were found to be the authorised creators of the establishment documents, i.e. the registration of companies, and that the amendments to these laws enabled the establishment and until the registration of a remote company were necessary in the Public Note Act to introduce public records in electronic form. But let us be realistic and correct, regardless of what the goal was, and the result seems to be that positive changes will occur in the work of the public notebooks, i.e. they will happen in another part of the digitisation that we allave and welcome. I'll mention another problem that we consider to be left to solve. The legislator, in my opinion and in our view, did not foresee a solution to this problem in the bill, although we had just heard a different interpretation. It's about the problem... the identification of the party to be on the link, i.e. at the videoconferencing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We remember the problems that existed during the control of personal documents in public records offices when the forged documents were not recognized in the application and registration of debtors. Unfortunately, this enabled a greater number of criminal offences in the next step when these debtors were asked for money in the FINA offices. We therefore expect that some sublaw act will address this problem in an adequate manner. The methods of identification mentioned shortly before by the secretary via the OIB are at least incomprehensible because the question arises as to what happens when the party uses a foreign OIB in the process. How do you determine whose OIB is using? Dear Secretary, that's the problem. An unclear explanation is related to the replica regarding obtaining a certificate. He wondered why the public notary must contact the Certificate Chamber since public notebooks already have qualified certificates, and in addition, we have two certification priorities in Croatia. We have FINA and the AKD which issue qualified certificates and are both state-owned and I do not understand why the Chamber must be a mediator for issuing certificates when the public notary can either directly report to the FINA or to the AKD and receive a qualified certificate allowing it to digitally sign documents and on the basis of which it will receive both a stamp or a time stamp. I also didn't get an explanation, so if you don't have a problem later in the final debate to explain it a little why it takes the Chamber to be a mediator in that part. Namely, I must note and draw attention to the fact that most of the notebooks, I can even guarantee that all the notebooks already have qualified certificates, given that everyone is accessing the e-Issuary. So they're accessing the system, the digital system of e-Iscen, and to sign up there they have to have certificates, because for handing over documents, they have to have a digital signature there, too. And I don't see any reason why we should report back to the Chamber now, to forward the Chamber to obtain new certificates. In addition, we have a dilemma as to whether the proposed amendments and additions are sufficient to correct all that is not good in the Law on Public Literature, which was passed back in 1993. In addition, what bothers us again and brings us into the dilemma regarding the assessment of the application and the possibility of simple uniform implementation of the law is the fact that out of the 20 observations that have appeared in the consultation on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature, only two have been partially accepted, all others are easily rejected. If we start with a first remark which is not accepted by the promoter and is about the competition and selection of neighbours in which the public notary wants freedom in the selection of neighbours, it is clear to the legislator that this freedom of choice is limited for a simple reason so that it does not happen in practice that public notation becomes a family business. However, the Minister of Justice should also be forced to respect the legislation and to appoint members and public notaries as truly the best candidates, which I can safely say was not the case so far, and I will talk about it later in my free speech, i.e. in an individual debate. As for the observations that came into the public debate, which concerns depositing signatures for representing a legal person, it is evident that some have not yet sensitized and realized the opportunities of work at a distance is which all the benefits and benefits are given in relation to the work of public notebooks so far. We also think that the problem is that there are no problems for public notebooks working in rural areas and the big question is whether their work is economically worthwhile, whether they can pay for the secretary, can I really say at the end of the month that they have earned money for their salary and for their secretary. Namely, in cities and municipalities where there are no large business entities, in which there are no banks that would lend loans, it would allow the notaries to have income from solemnisation, which would eventually enable them to make their business economically profitable, these public notebooks unfortunately work with losses and the question is how long they will be able to endure. On the other hand, we welcome the government and the legislator's initiative and desire to enable all of our citizens to have an accessible notary. So that's where they found themselves in one step that they were supposed to sort out in some way. What are we gonna do with these little notebooks that really work in those rural areas? How can we help them, and how can we enable them to continue their work? I will discuss the details related to the selection of notebooks and the choice of neighbours in my individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106559	You, too. And now Mr. Michel Jaksic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106560	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we have two laws and two amendments to the law in front of us. I will first talk about the easier and shorter, so the law on termination, the law on copying, signing and that everything on the list is something we welcome and commend because if we are 8 years old, now there will be 9, part of the EU, if it is mantra that we go to digitize and speed up and make everything more efficient that is possible, then it is definitely good to abolish a law that has been in force since 1973 or '74. For years and certainly when it comes to all those changes that took place in Croatian independence, today we come to the conclusion that he no longer has his own purpose and that it is much better and much simpler to put an end to it as such and to cease to be valid. The Law on Public Literature is here today in front of us in the second reading and what I must and can praise is that today we have received information that between the first and second readings is primarily covered and accepted a lot of what the Public Bookmark Chamber has proposed, and it is certainly a good way to follow and listen to what the profession says to make certain legal solutions even better, even better and even more adequate. What is mentioned on the board today is also mentioned in some discussions, it is also certain that a good way to model how to digitize all these processes, to make them more efficient, to find a model to reduce the pressure of costs on our citizens, because simply in the whole of the law that is changing now we have this one tendency and that is something that should definitely be commended and should be supported in this way. Of course, will we ever have the perfect law? We won't. There will always be someone who will be unhappy and unhappy and we will never be able to say that we have found the perfect model that we can be sure won't harm anyone and make anyone unhappy. But this tendency to make public records available, to be easier, to do what is asked of them is something we certainly commend and what we should insist on in further consideration, but what would only draw attention to, not for thinking but for being careful, given how much the process is now, how much of these corrections and documents will be done in a different way, so that there is really a security model that does not happen to us manipulations with certain documents and certain objects because we know how it used to work in some previous times when everything went through the hands of public notebooks that couldn't help themselves in the end, and often there was a mistake and injustice. Certainly it is necessary to highlight, although it is not in this package of amendments and it is not about this law, that we still have as well as how we tax the tax and how we pay VAT afterwards because there is a double payment by our citizens because on the one hand you pay the VAT tax and then you pay the VAT afterwards. I think it would be in future changes a good step for our citizens where they would be reduced by those costs, and I believe that even public notebooks would praise and support it, since then a little bit would be reduced by that story and the presses how they yell at people, how they charge for everything they can charge for, and realistically, sometimes some things don't have with them. I don't think there's much to turn around because we have a situation where public notebooks are doing something on behalf of the courts, so when they're authorized by the state and then we don't have VAT costs. So just level two procedures, what the state does, the court, what the notes do for the state, the court, and what they do for the public try to come down to the same framework, to the same form, and certainly that we will reduce that cost component to citizenship. When we talk about public notaries, of course we are all the happiest in our private time when we are not dealing with lawyers or public notaries because it is usually something that you do legally, but it is certainly important to note in this debate that, when Croatia enters the EU, we have submitted a great burden and have done a great deal of work when a good portion of the executives have agreed to take over themselves because, of course, the presses on our judicial system have been reduced and we have had much better numbers that we could show, of course, to those who rated us when entering the EU. Thanks again very much for the time to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106561	Thank you, too. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic The club of representatives of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleague Salapic, colleagues and colleagues. So there are two laws ahead of us, in this first law we can really just say a sentence, he's more than we do today, and he's no longer alive because actually the signature certificates are no longer in the offices of the state administration like they used to be, the signature certificates are actually in the jurisdiction of the public notebooks. So on that side, this is what I would say is a declaration law that we declare a fact that already exists. So, the public notaries are independent and independent persons who perform and actually have public trust, and the state has delegated to them certain powers to act on behalf of the state in certain matters, somewhere these court commissioners are, for example, in desert procedures, and now since the last amendments to the executive law, they also act as court commissioners, and it is a good, good step in any way related to such conduct because we know that there would be doubts in the executive procedures whether the notaries are a judicial body or not, so some of the solutions to the performance actually fell in the European court because they were not so defined. With the latest amendments to the executive law, I think it's been removed and that the notebooks in the business can act just as a real judicial body. I remember when this institute was even introduced in the '90s as a good step, and I think that we also thought that until today, it has proved that by establishing a notary we are actually strengthening trust in legal, legal traffic between the subjects because both the certificates and the testimony of the notebooks in some cases were actually giving power to these actions that the parties were taking. What was also very important was the slowness of the proceedings, and now the problem was actually the slow conduct of the courts, and it was before that we did not say even greater and when the notebooks were introduced into our system and when they were given the authority that those legal transactions and legal acts gave power to the executive documents at that time meant at least 5-6.g. save time means you don't have to go to the party's first-degree procedure, so wait for the verdict, and after the appeal procedure, it was known after 6-7. It's the possibility that the notary would give some contract, some kind of legal action to give the power of enforcement, which means that it skipped all that time that was before, in front of them. Clearly, it has its price, they used it most and today the most the banks and other ones of this institution use it, but in any case a certain discharge of our judicial system has certainly come this way, and the notebooks have thus disbursed our judicial system and have raised some confidence. This, these amendments to the law, I look at the first reading, they've had a lot of nomotechnical changes, and that's okay, that's where the proposer was mostly a chamber, but it's kind of a fundamental difference compared to the first reading, and it's not. What we see is, in fact, that these changes are fundamentally desired, two objectives are fundamental, and this is the modernisation of actually the conduct of public notebooks and a better availability of a notary service to our citizens. These are two important things and this modernization to say digitisation it includes today almost all segments of the functioning of the state and it is clear that it is reflected in the work of public notebooks. We already have the possibility today to establish companies, companies, businesses digitally, so we don't have to do this ić anywhere, it doesn't have to be done in any state institutions, or to write founding acts like it was, or to then go to the Bureau of Statistics, for retirement and health insurance, it can be done from its office today, from their living room, it needs to have a computer, it needs to be connected, it needs to be entered into the system, full forms, and that is, it's a big step. We now create here in some way and the normative framework means for making electronic documents which is good, good, it's certainly good this step and it's actually just the continuity of what the state does and in other segments of functioning. We saw now, we had last week it seems to me the Law on Amendments of the CAP that it lives in courts quite well, and now it all needs to be connected in some way. One of the important things is the availability of these offices because the goal is that citizens do not travel again, but that it is available as previously said here and in places where there are no banks, where there are no institutions, where there is no legal traffic so dynamic and alive and there is possible to open it means some of these offices, offices or so to say the offices of those who already operate and in some way it is possible to distribute these people so that those people living in such areas do not have any problems but that such an office is available to them outside of some headquarters and there. I also think there is a need to welcome the provisions on how to choose the notebooks. It is now under this law that a commission is established where the minister at the head of the conversation, so far it has not been so, was done by the chamber, and then the chamber gave an opinion on who would, in the view of the chamber, be the best candidate or give an opinion on several candidates she thought could be a public notary. Once there was even a provision that the advantage in this process would have neighbours, which, looking at practically very often and ending up being a neighbor appointed because the neighbour is still a person who shares there, for many years this one works and has experience and in some way if this one ceases to work, and he is appointed and that neighbour then brings a certain continuity to work whether and all of it. But it doesn't have to be that way, it doesn't have to be that way. So this is a very good thing that the commission and the minister will have a conversation with all these candidates and see, in fact, which is more convenient with all the CVs that are certainly to be respected, but sometimes there was a very explicit provision to choose the neighbours which the Constitutional Court has abolished by its decision and said that it can't do that, it must be the availability of such a place actually made possible by all on equal terms. It is also a very good provision that changes things, and that is that the working tariff means public notaries to bring a minister because here it is, however, business that the state delegates to public notebooks, and on the other hand, I think it is very justified that it is then also the minister to determine by which tariff it is because it is not a competition that is in some way exclusive to the state, giving independent independent independent individuals who have public confidence. I think even at first reading or now in the Law on Amendments of the Parley Procedure, I said that we should use this institute as much as possible to relieve the judiciary and actually make it easier for the citizens. And I think it would be good for some of the following amendments to the Law on Literature, including the Law on the Procedural Procedure to see the experiences of others, and that's something to do with this institute of our previous evidence insurance. This means before the trial itself is launched before someone sues that it would actually be good for the notaries to have them provide some evidence, say some interference between them, that they go out before the court, that they fix exactly what is happening here, and that what happens in that process next to the notebook happens to have the power of evidence, that such evidence is no longer being carried out in the court proceedings. You actually need to see this because this seems to me to be what the state has passed on, and it's about, it's about the performance and the desert procedures that it's going relatively fast and it's proved to be a good instrument for discharging courts. These changes are also well-assembled, in fact, all these functions and these human structure, from trainees, counselors, neighbours, deputy public notary, so that very precisely these conditions were stated and that, so far, was one substance that was not fully regulated. Now that's more important than that. In any case, we welcome these amendments, they mean a certain safe step forward and the HDZ Club will support the amendments to the Public Note Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106563	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106564	Good afternoon. I would like to remind you that public records were established by law in 1993 as a public service, and amendments to the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in 1994 provided that the gradual tasks of certifications would cease to be carried out by offices, offices and city offices, while the ministers of the administrations adopted solutions on the termination of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts for offices and their offices in the area of individual counties and the City of Zagreb. There has been a lot of talk here about the relics of the past and about the laws that need to be changed. It was also talked about the darkness of socialism in which it was necessary to make certain provisions more modern, but no one here said exactly what it was about, so I would only warn that there was a service of state officials in the darkness who were without compensation to confirm the signatures and images. Of course, we can't bring public notebooks down to confirmation of signatures or copies, but that's a big part of their occupation and what they're actually doing. The key emphasis is free of charge. There has been a lot of talk here about the need for modernisation of public note service, by electronic means means of delivery of transcription, digitisation, etc., but the availability of services means, above all, free of charge. It's free of charge. What is electronically available is not available if someone has no money to pay that fee, and if it is not a small fee, I will remind you that you also had an article in Free Dalmatia from 2020 on a case where a public notary in the desert procedure charged 3,400 kuna which is the usual tariff to be understood, where in fact, in this situation, a man did not have to pay for it. In this situation some heritage simply comes to the fact that they do not have these 3,000 kunas and the desert procedure cannot be completed. In that case, we were informed by the legal adviser of the public notary to refer the case to a court which conducts the matrimonial procedure without paying compensation other than the costs of the verdict. So if we're talking about a lot of people in the debate and mentioning that good practice is so-called. Disposing of courts, we have nothing against it, but the problem is paying again. So if in court this service can be obtained almost free of charge, and in the public notebook for 3,400 kuna, then we cannot possibly talk about this modernization actually going towards greater availability of the service. The greater availability of the service, I repeat, is a free service. A service which is not free is not available regardless of its format, electronic or on paper. So in that sense, it seems to me that we have some kind of modernization here again, which is our own purpose. We have otherwise asked Minister Malenica and we have not yet received an answer, and regarding this particular case, it means which one was described in the Free Dalmatia. In fact, we've done a little research on why the fees are so high and the tariffs are really like that, and that's why I'm asking the question here, do these tariffs think they're going down, is that a key problem, whether the tariffs can be less. And now look at what it's absurd why this tariff is so big, let's say for inheritance. This tariff is so high for inheritance because it is determined by the Regulation on the amount of compensation and the costs of the public notary as the court's commissioner in the desert procedure. The tariff is literally 3,000 and more than 3,000 kuna for most of these procedures, meaning the value of the clean leave is determined according to the value of the leave at the time of the assessment, and most of them exceed the value of 35,000 kuna as determined by Article. Seven. If the value of the leave exceeds 60,000 kuna in addition to the amount of compensation of 200 kuna, another 100 kuna shall be paid for each of the initial 10,000 value of the rest, but not more than 2,500 kuna, so practically most of the parties shall pay that maximum amount. And what our proposal was to gradually set tariffs above those 35,000 kunas that I think will be realistically looking at for each real estate or for each land and to expand and above means an amount of 60,000 kuna in order for those who inherit more valuable property to be charged with more expensive tariffs, and for those who inherit less valuable property, if possible, lower tariffs, do we have the same amount that everyone pays in taxes regardless of whether you inherited the villa or inherited a piece of land? In that sense, again and in tax and here, it is not enough to do something available enough to say that it is a public service. And the public record isn't really public and available service, but it's really privatizing part of the state service. That's good now, but what's key and what can help people is that at least those figures and those tariffs are coming down. Public notation which is, in its essence, privatization of the part of the judicial system and the state apparatus cannot be described in the words described here, which means we relieve the courts, we increase the availability of this service, etc. We all know how our people are spent when they come into a situation where they have to do anything with some law firm or public notebook. In this regard, as in other cases and in the case of inheritance, it is a business that is literally carried out in a few minutes. So everyone who's been to the public notebook knows they spent a few minutes in his office, and for that service, they paid 50 if they were lucky, so here's to 3,400 kuna. So we appeal that the legal proposals are not kept on electronic solutions to digitisation that cannot be their own purpose but that this service is indeed done by what the Chamber of State or the Chamber of Public Note praises, which is publicly available to all available services. That's not the case now, so here we have situations where literally people can't inherit their country because they don't have 3,400 kunas to pay for the public notebook. It's a racket, not a public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106565	Mr. Davor Dretar will represent the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106566	Thank you very much, dear chairman, dear secretary of state, colleague and colleague. As regards this first law or the Law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which we can see in this text ourselves and the provisions no longer apply, there are no assumptions for their further application, there is absolutely nothing to object to. But I will somehow focus more on the law or amendments to the Law on Public Literature. It is certainly to praise the modernization of the introduction of all possible information benefits offered to us today and in the work of public records offices. What a respected colleague Pavić has asked here for a request for obtaining a certificate from a public notary or a public record office to submit to the chamber, in order therefore to obtain a qualified certificate for electronic signature and electronic stamp issued by a qualified trust service provider. We don't see, we say, and we're going to point out once again that great need for the chamber to interfere in any way. But what may be questionable, and we see that it hasn’t changed since the first reading, I will emphasize through several articles of these legal changes. Art. Article 27 is amended as follows: Article 42(3) states that a public notary, counselor and trainer shall respond as well as a public notary for damage caused by a violation of official duty in the course of an independent course of action in accordance with this law. The public notary shall correspond in solidarity with the public notary, counselor and trainer if it has authorised them to perform a specific operation on their own. The public notary has the right to regress, according to the public notary, counselor and trainer under the general rules on the regency of officials. What is certainly important is the last sentence, and it reads, for the damage caused by a public notary, adviser and trainee of the state is not responsible. So, the state here has made it clear, if you screw up sory, it's your own fault. But the state doesn't give in so lightly. 42. which amends Art. 42. 122 of this law in which it is said when we talk about selecting a public notary, these places are filled in as it says in the legal text based on competitions which are called and carried out by the chamber. On the occasion of the elections, particular consideration will be taken of the success achieved in the legal study and the work done hereafter. St. 6 is very important, and it is about the choice and appointment of a public notary to be decided by the ministry on the basis of the previously obtained opinion of the chamber and the public notary. If he opposes the appointment of a certain public notary public notary within the next year, he cannot seek the opening of a public notary in his office, except, of course, he would once again ask all the applicants in Croatia to keep an eye on grammar, so that sentences do not start with a conditionality, but obviously we will have to hire some linguists. Here it is questionable, so I remind you just before I read to you about the damage caused by a public record neighbor, a consultant and an apprentice of the state is not responding. But here we see that the state, through the chamber and the ministry, is directly involved in the process of selecting a public notary. As in the first reading, I will read again the letter that came to me from a public record office, which reads: “The Law on Public Literature is completely against the Regulation on the evaluation of candidates in the process of appointment of judges, which provides for a procedure for the appointment of judges, such as the Law on Public Note, which provides for the procedure for the appointment of public notary neighbours, although public notarys should have the same expertise and carry out tasks in the jurisdiction of the courts as the Commissioners. That Regulation requires that the judge, in addition to having to fulfil the formal conditions, must pass the examination of the knowledge and the structural conversation on which questions are asked and interviews shall be held for a reasonable period of time and, of course, assess whether the applicant has the necessary skills and abilities. Therefore, only after a professional interview has been carried out pursuant to Articles 7 and 9. The rules on the evaluation of candidates and the final decision on the appointment of a person as a judge shall be taken following the examination carried out in accordance with Articles 10 and 12 of the same Regulation. Of course, if a person fails, he will not be appointed. Such a possibility for a public notary was taken here after all. He must hire a person for whom a knowledge check and a structured conversation has found that he may not meet the requirements for the place for which the same person appears. Is that exactly how it works? Not at all. Of course, it is impossible to imagine that a public notary in his office would go to such a responsible place as a neighbor hired a person he had never seen in his life. But now we have a strange reality game and a legal text in which we still have nothing solved. We will address the parliamentary question of the respected Minister Malenica, so we will ask for an answer to the question really as I did to the respected Mr Salapic in the replica, as to the number of public notebooks within a certain time limit, let's say during 2021, I expressed opposition to the appointment of neighbours in my own office. Or actually it's done the way a lady who has a public record office told us herself. The appointment of a public record neighbor in practice looks like this. A public notebook finds a person who will perform his duties as a neighbor, and then hires him in his office as a lawyer. After that, the need for a public commentary to the chamber shall be reported on the basis of which an ad in the National Journal of the European Union shall be made. Already an employee, this said lawyer submits an application to this competition, and then several days later, in the public record office, they answer the phone and answer the question whether this competition is real or only pro form, or whether you are already employed, except that you will no longer be called a lawyer, but will be called a public notary. So we see for ourselves that this law is not precise, the law or the state is at one point being built on any responsibility but still wants to have an impact on the choice of a public notary. Even during the first reading, the respected secretary Salapic answered my question that it is not quite true that public notebooks are on the market, but that they are, that is, their offices are persons, or offices that are doing serious jobs, and they are not left to choose from the workers they are working with. A rather interesting and strange structure and logically and at many other levels, I must admit it does not hold water. However, in any case, these legal changes will be supported by the House of Homeland Movement’s club, and we will have to consult for a little while. We have nothing to say against modernization, against speeding up the process, but we're sure we're going to need a little more thought, so we're going to make a decision by the vote. Until then, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106567	Thank you. Ms. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106568	A few days ago, Justice Minister Ivan Malenica, in the Assembly, presented a piece of information that should be all of us concerned. The minister praised that Croatian courts entered 158,000 cases in 2021 more than in 2020. He didn't offer any explanation of the rising figures. Is it any new trend that arises because of the growing difficulties in economic flows? I expect answers to these questions. Is it possible that there are some changes in the system of keeping records of court cases and proceedings, or is there something third that we cannot identify so far? In any case in Croatia, the situation of court cases has been systematically monitored for some time, by a methodology that is relatively stable and gives us a good basis for the comparative monitoring of general trends in the work of the judicial authorities. Accordingly, our judicial policy as a whole and most other sectoral policies deal only with the treatment of symptoms, i.e. disorders and anomalies while the basic variable of judicial statistics annual inflow of cases is more or less from year to year very similar and makes almost infallible mathematical constant. Although it seems at first glance that the judiciary is not the subject of today’s debate, the facts are quite the opposite. The fact is absolutely impenetrable and legally prescribed. That the public record activity in Croatia includes one large slice of the judicial cake. The performances in the first row are a large part of the work that is being done today in public records offices. What we could say is that without these functions, this law that we are discussing today would look different, but the reality of our judiciary at some point was such that it could not be counted on to perform certain judicial functions effectively, or even when it was indisputable or routine cases, such as enforcement on the basis of credible documents. Therefore, the state as well as known wandered in search of a solution to... between the public notebooks and the rejected and forgotten public perpetrators. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the gap between the need for an effective system of forced collection of civil obligations and the fact that public notebooks, regardless of the recent legislative provisions, are not and cannot be court, nor can the parties of the executive procedure guarantee the objectivity and impartiality of the court's essential characteristics. In any case, this government, as well as all previous ones, obviously takes public notebooks as a sort of task, primarily built on the fear that hundreds of thousands of executive cases are not poured into the courts and that is something that we as a parliamentary minority cannot influence right now, we are therefore left to discuss this concrete final draft of the law. Although this law does not have a wide range of primary addresses, it still needs to be given due attention because the material and other interests behind it are quite large, this was also the case in previous discussions and the completion of this law certainly did not go away and we are now coming to what is important in the final proposal of the law, so it did not go without pressure and lobbying in the government, the Ministry of Justice and in all the other competent authorities that influenced this final appearance of the law. It is enough to compare what this bill looked like in the first reading and what this final proposal looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference is huge. Many legal articles that were proposed to be changed in the first reading have disappeared from the final bill, and others have changed instead. If you look for an explanation of the differences between the first and second reading of the law, you will see that these differences are mainly due to lobbying from public records, while the explanations that the ministry gives us are more than a shura and come down to the phrases about nomotechnics. In view of the number and significance of the difference between the first and second readings, we rightly wonder what happened. This law, like any other, has passed all previous stages in its creation, starting with an impact assessment through inter-resent coordination between ministries, there has been some public consultation, and it is truly surprising that after all this, so many provisions in the second reading were to be amended. Suddenly, a Croatian public record chamber appears and is based on its observations that are not available to us as parliamentary representatives in the reasons of the law to a greater extent. Large differences between two readings are in themselves a problem because there is not enough good argument for them. Only two explanations are possible, either the ministry has given in to some of us unknown outside institutional pressures, or the proposal for first reading is simply prepared amateurally and recklessly, nor would it be the first time. There's no third reason, and it can't be. In this debate, I would also like to make one general observation that through a series of laws in this mandate, HS will settle a whole set of issues directly related to the public service. In addition to these amendments to the Law on Public Literature earlier today, it had to be discussed, and now it has been united, and I will continue to discuss this in an individual debate, on the termination of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Scriptures and transcripts, which are largely conditional on the fact that the affairs of this law have been subject to in the last 20 years. They've taken over the public notebooks. Earlier in this term, amendments to the Implementing Law which sought to cover the gaps associated with the participation of public notebooks as Commissioner of the Courts in the executive proceedings have been adopted, and in public consultation we can find amendments to the Law on Land Books according to which the notebooks will literally take over a large part of the jobs when proposing enrolment in land books. If that is the case, I would like to remind the representatives of the ministry in a very broad way that there are provisions in the current Inheritance Act concerning desert procedures, which are atavism from another time. It is specifically about the legal provisions which require parents to collect data on potential heirs and leftovers when recording the fact of death, which is completely inappropriate and which is why no parent should be concerned at all. So today, as my contribution, I will show once again that the opposition is constructive to submit a proposal to amend the Law on Inheritance with a simple goal of keeping the burden of determining the heirs and the leftovers entirely on the notebooks and courts as bodies of the proceedings and on the heirs as parties to the proceedings. In addition, I will end with this, and I would like to draw attention to the representatives of the ministry as they discuss in public these days the single register of accounts managed by FINA, and who should have access to that same register and on what basis. I think that the Ministry of Justice and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance should consider whether such free access to individual data from registers and bodies leading the process should be considered in order to avoid parties in the process themselves investigating something that is already known to the State and which should be a principle that applies in all types of proceedings, judicial, administrative or other third parties. So I will repeat once again, with the usual regret that there are no more interested in the debate and the fact that the debate in these two cases has come together, that here, in this presentation, there are also very specific issues concerning the links of exactly the situation in the judiciary and public record activities, which relate to why 158,000 cases occurred more than in 2020. We need concrete explanations of these upward trends. And the second question is, where does such a change come from between two law readings? I hope that, in the final address, the proposing representative will be bold to come to this pay phone and answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106569	Thank you, you will remain, to choose as an individual debate now, now possible replicas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106570	In an individual debate, I'm going to talk about the Act of Signing, manuscripts and copying. The law I am discussing here seems to be a subject that has long been overcome, minor or something that should be routinely passed without more discussion and reflection because it proposes to abolish the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts which has been in force since 1974 and whose provisions are mostly no longer applicable and are put out of force by the provisions of other laws. However, this law as a relic of the past has caused certain reactions to the public, and the media reminds us that there are other laws in Croatia that date back to the times of the former states that no longer exist. From time to time, the public will recall that in Croatia, the Law on Public Order and Peace Infringements has been in force since 1977, and in which fines are still expressed in German marks that do not exist for almost a quarter of a century. The ideological and political struggle and the legal struggle will really remind us that the matter of abortion in Croatia has been governed by a law that was passed in the time of the former Yugoslavia, which has been in effect since 1978. Until recently, the Law on settlements from the cheerful and picturesque 1980s was in effect, which we finally replaced a month ago with a new law. Just a week ago, we were here discussing the Law on the Procedural Procedure whose basic text was published in the Official Journal of the SFRY at the beginning of 1977, and since its adoption it has been amended almost 30 times, and in this law, as infrequently in which language, notional and legal concepts are clashed entirely with different legal order and even significantly different language rules. And the word is from one of the capital laws in the Croatian legal order that deals with the largest number of judicial proceedings in the Republic of Croatia and whose quality has a significant impact on the efficiency of the work of the entire judicial system. If you are closer to promoting the weariness of both the Law on Procedural Procedure and the Act on Extraparation Procedure, if you add the fact that the current Executive Act is the third order passed by Croatia, it is clear that the modern Croatian state and its legislator have failed to adopt a modern and stable legislative framework for the settlement of disputed and uncontested court proceedings in cases belonging to private legal relations for the first 30 years of our statehood. It is not necessary then to go far to find the culprit for our economic failures, to look at a wider picture of this or why serious business in Croatia does not want to invest and why entrepreneurship is not popular. In doing so, do not take my debate as a general criticism of the quality of normative activity in the former countries. It was likely on average at a higher level, but it was also significantly weaker in intensity than it is today. The lawyers of that time had more time, and legal relations were where and where less complex than today. The examples we have in the regulated Western democracies that are the heiress of a liberal model of civil law order and who have enjoyed, for a long time, the benefits of a stable legal arrangement are so far inaccessible to us. Examples such as the Austrian General Civil Code, which has been in force in Austria for more than 200 years, seem unreal to us. Too often new laws are passed with us or changed mostly without concrete content and so that the owners make an impression in the public that they are doing something. Finally, by returning specifically to today's topic of the agenda, I would like to conclude that the repeal of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is nothing more than formalisation of the legal reality that has existed in the legal order long ago. The public service has long since consumed a good part of the jobs to which this law applies, and the adoption of a new Regulation on office operations has ensured that after the law ceases to apply, there is no legal gap, thus creating assumptions that this law is abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106571	Thank you, you're done, thank you. Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106572	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I asked the minister, but I cannot get a clear answer as a parliamentary representative. I've been curious since we passed this law, and the tariffs will be passed by the Minister by his own rules. So we're going to give legitimacy, the council is going to accept the ministry's proposal, and we're actually going to give them an amen to give tariffs, the price of tariffs to show people as much money as they can think of. So it's unclear to me why in the first place, this comes to the assembly when rules will determine the price that is very important, which is very high in public notebooks. So, there's no answer to what we're even serving as Parliamentarians if the public service coster didn't give us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106573	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106574	I will repeat once again what I have pointed out in the debate on behalf of the club, which we have previously discussed is that there is a big difference between the first and second reading of the law and that suddenly in the second reading of the law there is a Croatian public record chamber and the basis of its remarks which are not available to us as Assembly representatives with detailed arguments, the law is changed to a greater extent. That's how much we can actually influence these laws. And what my question remains in the air is whether this law, given these differences, is the result of different lobbying and if it is whose lobbying is because we here should have a transparent process which, as Parliament's advocates, we can also influence unequivocal arguments so that we can support or reject any final draft law. Now I'll agree with you no matter what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106575	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106576	Thank you. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would just short here, and I don't even need these five minutes to say the senselessness of ourselves if we let laws come to us in this way where we don't define the basic settings of the law, and that's what our citizens are interested in, let the chamber do their job, but we're Parliamentarians and we'd tribal to get a cost. the price of services to be paid by the citizens, i.e. tariffs to be paid to public notebooks. That's the question I'm terribly curious about why the minister will be debossed from who I don't know to sign, and we're going to give him support for this law as a council? And a very important question for me and here is being asked by the secretary of state has explained that this time in this law the minister will be present at the reception with the relief and relief of these reception conditions for the public notary, the reduction of the employment I do not know of for years, and so, stated that the minister will be present in the interview. So far there has been a commission, the commission has proposed a minister, probably so, I don't know if it was a procedure and the minister has signed it. I don't know what it means to have the minister present at the interview, I don't know that it's even closer to the one that will require a party card and an even greater influence from the Minister himself than an independent commission in essence which is not independent, which is largely likely, after the minister's decision has been made. So there's no change. And it is a very important issue to cover public notebooks, which is mentioned occasionally in areas where it is far from public notebooks' headquarters that will occasionally leave public notebooks in these areas. But here the key question arises when we talk about the judiciary because the secretary and extended a little topic at one point to a whole judiciary in which the people have no trust, I would now say that five key things, five things in the biggest mistrust that our own and the businessmen and citizens have, and that is the key condition that we are not developing economically, that is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, and always the judiciary. And I don't understand that territorial division, you took the number of certain inhabitants, but I mentioned here an example of how clean and crucial political action was made in terms of courts that are networks of courts, municipal courts. For example, I mentioned the Cetina region, so in other parts of Knin, so other parts of the hinterland, the square end of the area larger than Međimurje County, by the number of inhabitants more than Ličko-Senj County was left without a court, and Emperor Francis Josip opened it to me in 863, so in modern Croatia we lost that municipal court knowing that the areas of the Cetin region of Split were some 70, 80 even more kilometers away means in two directions it came between 150 and 200 km in one day the users had to travel. So that reminds me of public notebooks. I would just once again point out that I'm interested in and answers as a parliamentary representative, is this always about some bag, about money, and we don't have an insight into it. If the chamber has any suggestions and we are not well enough that we should at least see if prices are terribly high, terribly mainly in the debate after the death of the inheritance and the rest of course. So I would like to point out once again that I expect this problem to be resolved in this assembly and expect the voice of all parliamentary deputies to be delivered we can also postpone this reading, continue in the next reading there is always a possibility. However, why would some lobbies be above parliamentary deputies and at least as information, here, rather than getting half-information, and ultimately be a statement from the government and the ministry that it was passed by the law, and that they had passed a rule that would regulate the price. This would be much more transparent and clear, I believe the secretary of state knows that, but obviously, the strategy was to bring the tariffs for public notebooks to the codebooks. :
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106577	The first replica of Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106578	Dear fellow Bull. How would you explain the fact that there are so many differences between the first and second readings? Do you think it's about certain extra-institutional pressures or the first reading of the law was sloppyly prepared which would not again be the first case in HS?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106579	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106580	Well, obviously the impact of the lobby, so that's where the lobbies did their part because of that change drastically, and I expect that we Parliamentarians raise our voice and that we clearly say that we didn't come here exclusively for exercise and we'd say rather on the fiscultura to raise our hands and practice moving because it's pointless for us to stay in my town of Sinj at this moment than to discuss it here and from this because this concerns all the citizens of the Republic. In fact, we are discussing the law that will be followed by the regulation, essentially, where prices and tariffs will be, and prices and tariffs will be unknown to us, to us MPs, but that's why the government will have. Proposers will have coverage for that decision and those regulations and in the key matter, we're talking about a matter of tariffs and prices, drawn up obviously whether it's from a chamber or someone else I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106581	And Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106582	Your Honor, you come from the city of Sinj, there you are mayor and you probably know the situation with public notebooks in your area, so you probably know their business or needs that they must meet for our fellow citizens who are in rural areas. Namely, today it is no problem to be a public notary in the great middle, it is not a problem to be a notary in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Sibenik, but it is a problem to be a notary in Sinj who has jurisdiction over a large part of the territory and in neighbouring municipalities. Namely, if a person wants to verify the signature, and is unable to reach him in the office he must go to her, drive on the hills, I don't know for hours perhaps through, perhaps through the forest parts and by the macadam to get to that person in order to charge him 160 kuna + VAT for what he came in and to earn 40 kuna on the approval of the signature. Who can afford that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106583	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106584	Undeveloped areas are otherwise forgotten and are always seen by the prism of the law through large areas, and these areas which unfortunately have been evicted and national security due to empty spaces and territories, this is also happening in this case, and on other issues, it is not easy to be a doctor of general practice in an undeveloped area where there are not enough patients or, somewhere in the urban environment such as Zagreb, Split, Osijek, outside of these cities everything is falling apart, everything is falling apart, we are at risk of national security and so on in this case. So these areas are not at all covered by laws, nor are they trying to find a solution to these areas for both users and service providers, and that is one of the key problems, and that is why we are going to have more and more evictions of people if the damages are immeasurable because of a legislator who doesn't even think about these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106585	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić also had an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106586	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to get back to this exposition of my fellow Bulls. I agree with the fact that this law is not written for small notebooks working in rural areas, and there is likely to be a problem with these areas because these notebooks are really hard to survive, and there is absolutely nothing in the law to help them. As I said in the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I understand why the legislator did not accept the proposal that the public notary had freedom in selecting neighbours. We would accept this refusal if we did not know that in practice there are situations where neighbors who are children of public notebooks, nephews, relatives, etc. are employed in the public record office, etc. Of course, as you can imagine, the ministry made a decision based on the previously obtained opinion of the chamber and the public notary, but it often deviated from that opinion. Similarly, there were competitions for public notaries because the competition was opened by the chamber, and after the invitation to tender, it gave an opinion which, in principle, along with other conditions that the public notary had to satisfy, was to be served for the appointment of public notebooks by the minister. That the whole public tender procedure is just a fig leaf for a minister who then uses his discretionary right to appoint whom he wants without actually choosing the best candidate and that is actually an abuse of discretion I will show you on the following example. After an open invitation to tender issued by the public notation chamber for the place of the public notary, despite the fact that the candidate for the public notary met all the conditions, he had the best grades in the judicial and public record exam, which he had done public records for years in a smaller environment in which he had to travel every day from the city for which a tender for the public notary was opened, which the chamber gave him the best opinion regardless of what the defender was, the Minister of Justice unfortunately appointed a public notary who had conditions worse than... the candidate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's according to the article. 14. The Law on Public Note is a solution of the Justice Minister's final candidate, which the minister did not appoint regardless of the fact that he was a better-quality candidate has not been appointed. The only thing left to do was to initiate the administrative dispute, of course the administrative dispute had not entered the procedure for months, and the public notary which was appointed in a way that the minister did not respect the law remained a public notary, and our mentioning a better candidate was condemned to wait for the administrative dispute to finally enter the procedure, which had not already entered about 9-10 months. This is why we don't believe in the uniform implementation of the law, and unfortunately we don't even know who to trust to respect the laws passed by this high house if they're not respected by the Minister of Justice himself. The example I set is true, it happened recently, and if the BOOK and the DORH are interested in punishing those who break the laws, and yet the members of the government are at my disposal, and I will gladly give them all the details I know. To all of you who are in the assembly and who are following us on television, it is certainly clear what is the basic condition to be favored and ultimately appointed in our country which is far known as a state that offers equal opportunities to everyone, but provides some more equal opportunities. In the new bill, we have another proposal that I can claim is another fig leaf that will allow the minister to name literally whoever he wants, and without being able to at least complain about the other candidates. It is a task force headed by the minister, which will hold talks with candidates and will then appoint public notebooks at his own discretion. I think that this example clearly showed that the Law on Public Literature has records and therefore I believe that it needs to be amended by new law rather than by amendments and additions because there are too many articles that have to be changed. That's what we talked about on behalf of the club, and I'll talk about it in the final word, namely, we need to change this law urgently, and we need to make sure that the minister finally has to obey the law and that he has to make decisions in accordance with the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106587	Thank you, stay, you have replicas. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106588	I agree with you, colleague Pavić, I just don't think I'd say "failing" any more, this failure turns out to be someone's slip, and these discounts are one conscious action that leads to the possibility of abuse and different reading of legal provisions in terms of guessing someone. I'm also finding other irregularities in the law, so here's what I'm asking you, I'm asking you, and I'm asking the motionary's representative, maybe someone knows what the next one should mean. Article 12 is replaced by the following: and 18b. The titles above read as follows: ‘The information system for the work of public notebooks and in its work, public notebooks use the information system approved by the chamber’. There is no further explanation of what the information system is, what system it is and why it is necessary to approve the chamber. Are you maybe smarter than me about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106589	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106590	Well, I happen to know something about it. In fact, it was the chamber that was supposed to bid for applications that would work in public notebooks. Of course it's not the same for everyone. So you have several all the applications that work in the territory of the entire Croatian public notebooks and because the chamber has given its signature that it is licensed by them and that public notebooks can use them in their offices. Many notebooks had their applications, had their systems that worked, but they had to simply reject them because they had to connect, or buy, that system that was licensed, or systems that were licensed to allegedly connect to some unique system, and that could somehow be controlled and exchanged in a different way. So far we know how it works, we know what's been going on recently, we know how this was confirmed by the documents, we know what happened after that in fini as what happened to the debtors. There are big problems, there is no real register, no... a system that would exist to make them work better. [[I don't understand the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106591	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106592	Thank you very much. Your comment means employment, i.e. The choice of candidates is also unacceptable to me. You said that basically before the minister approved, now the minister is basically standing there and sitting down and approval, I mean during the talks. So it is no change except as the message is sent exactly the minister will decide he is God and father and everything and the Holy Spirit and everything. So it's basically the same thing, nothing has changed, but it's defined as you said who will be admitted, the one who has a party card. But I'm interested in this other part as a parliamentary representative, which is why we're used to legislators. the legislator, and as a legislator we always get superficial documents here for discussion, and in key things like tariffs, this is about tariffs at least as information we get and that the whole law is changing between two readings literally is not clear to me why If you can explain it to me. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106593	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106594	Your Honor, I have repeatedly said here that I am not satisfied with the fact that we are getting laws here saying that the minister will bring 7, 8, 9, 15 regulations, I have no idea how many regulations under which law because we don't know what those rules will say. And there are big problems. And with that, we just can't fight. There is simply no consensus that at the level of the assembly such a decision must be made that everything must be contained or that we have contributions already made to those regulations so that we know what they will write and that we can influence these regulations in order to make it more and more expensive in practice. We've talked about it many times, we've turned our attention to secretaries, ministers, assistants, deputies, no one's listening to us. No one wants to hear what would be better, better quality for working in practice. To allow the laws to be implemented on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in a unique way. And what's happening with this law right now is another step back. Unfortunately, in one part, in the other part is forward because there is still digitisation and new systems so hard to tell what to do when voting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106595	Thank you very much, thank you. And now final Mrs. Lukacic and Mr. Right after that Mr. Habian who shares those five minutes with Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106596	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here I will briefly repeat why the law is repealed, which is prescribed to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. So that's the law the Republic of Croatia took over in the '90s. The year he changed in '94. However, the adoption of the Law on Public Registration in Croatia established modern public notation as a public service and the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions provided that the gradual offices, city offices and facilities would cease to carry out this work, however, that the administration ministers would adopt solutions, of course, and would continue to do so. The ministers of the administration gradually made such solutions. The last solution was adopted in 2016 on the termination of operations in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the Office of State Administration and County in Dubrovnik, in the exhibition of the office in Lastovo, so on 7 June 2016. Following this, the provisions of the law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are no longer applicable, and there are no legal assumptions for their application anymore. Since the matter governed by this law has been taken over by other regulations in the Republic of Croatia primarily by the Law on Public Literature. Therefore, and in order to achieve the security of an objective legal order, this law needs to be put out of force. And this is foreseen by this law to put the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts out of force because, as I said, there are no legal assumptions for its application anymore. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106597	Thank you. Mr. Habian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106598	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's briefly in this remaining time just to repeat, so this Law on Public Note, I think it's actually continuing on what we recently discussed about amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register. In this way, we are actually rounding up that story where it will be facilitated by parties and all stakeholders in the process of establishing new companies and until registration. In fact, this process is on the verge of modernisation and harmonisation and with European law, the modernisation of the entire judiciary. I'd look back here on just one thing that's actually here at the end here, and it's a matter of tariffs and tariffs. So, so far, it's clear to the MOST colleagues who've potentiated it so far that it's been done by the Public Bookmark Chamber. It has been imposed here that this is the solution that the minister is the one who brings the tariff, determines the tariff as unfavourable. I think that it is precisely greater responsibility now to the Minister for the reasons that public notebooks are as independent and independent persons by the state to have in certain matters public authority and it is logical that the minister who has the authority determines the tariff and in these cases will certainly be more controlled than it has ever been before in the Public Bookmark Chamber. So, I think Mr. Bull is making it more clear now, no matter what he's not here. And one more thing, don't talk about the appointments of some public notebooks by, therefore, ministers. I personally know, so at a time when MOST had its minister what was happening in some cities, and also when MOST had his minister, he could do anything that now says didn't change well, so he didn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106599	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106600	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. If a colleague of the Habian is familiar with what insinuates some of the criminal acts being carried out, he does not fulfil his civic duty because he has not reported it. Otherwise, anyone can talk like this from a pay phone. So I expect my colleague, Habib, to report something that is a crime, which he is obviously familiar with and what he is trying to insinuate behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106601	Thank you. There was a replica and there was a warning. Here you are, Mr. Habian, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106602	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. So, a colleague steps away from the usual behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. I wasn't talking about any crime at all, you obviously recognized yourself. I have launched as much as possible what the law requires, and this is administrative proceedings and later proceedings before the High Court of Justice. So I don't know where anyone mentioned criminal proceedings. Obviously I'm saying you recognized yourself in that. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106603	Thank you. A warning because it was a replica. I look forward to the day when such things will be fined. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106604	This Regulation shall enter I only recognized that in general when anyone in HDZ is speaking, usually some kind of criminal procedure either in mind or in language or in progress, so I logically linked it to your exposure, and you were talking about some irregularities that should have been changed, so it would be useful to have been very direct if you really had information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106605	It's not a round table, and it was a replica. And another warning. And thank God now I'm giving access to this place of Sabina's Voice so she's giving warnings further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106606	Good afternoon, everyone! We move on with the closing words. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS, distinguished colleague Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106607	Thank you. Today's lesson regarding this agenda point is to guard the HDZ reform of the judiciary. The same lesson, the same conclusion, was true when we discussed the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorney's Office or last week the Law on Penalty, and the Law on Criminal Procedure. More or less in this law lacks the essence of these previous laws. This law simply harmonizes the work of the public notebooks with the century in which we live. We've introduced public records in electronic form. Uh, you're not reforming it! Again, what matters is this law leaves out. And here I will refer and refer to the individual exposure of my colleagues, because that case of the appointment of a public notary is not something that happened once or in the term of this or that government. It's something that's repeated over and over again, so for at least 20 years, here's how much I have direct experience in the justice system. And why is that? I'm not going to go in now if it's about ignorance, ignorance or someone having wrong intentions, but ever since we introduced public notebooks as special service, we haven't clearly figured out what public notebooks should be. There's a certain difference between public notebooks and lawyers. In fact, lawyers are an independent and independent service that provides assistance to all citizens in accordance with the constitution and the law. Lawyers also have their own chamber, the chamber determines the tariff and in some ways, let's say, with clear and predetermined prices providing a service on the market. When we talk about public notaries, if they are something else, they still have public authority, they are the holders of the public powers assigned to them by law and in that part they do work on behalf of the state, which means that they must enjoy their trust in a certain sense. Now, where's the problem and where's the name problem? So we have a limited and limited number of people who can become public notebooks all the time. This is systematically limited to protect caste and that spoil cake they share by providing and providing their services as public authorities. There is no such situation for lawyers. For lawyers, we don't have a limited number of new lawyers in the system that can exist, but actually only the market is pushing them out, how profitable they can be themselves. The problem here is that we also say that we have an action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services, we also think about public notebooks, and then through this law, we will shorten the time of the necessary working experience in legal affairs, after having passed the judicial examination to obtain the conditions for making public records, and then determine the shorter duration of working time on legal affairs after the legal examination that is required to be appointed to a public notary. So that's where we cut the criteria, that's where they need to be strengthened just because, unlike lawyers, public notebooks have public authority. And it's quite another pair of sleeves that we're going to redefine the number, or I'm going to cancel the number of public notebooks, then we're not going to have this problem with double criteria and from actually, fake public tenders. Whatever we think of public notebooks, the fact is that they sort of do business as a small craftsman, as small companies. And yes, they're mostly family-based, and there's really nothing wrong with that. I don't mind one.../incomprehensible... in Zagreb you have as many of them as you want from your knees to your knees. So how do you think these public notebooks first became neighbors and then the public notebooks in your mother's or your father's public record office? No news. I don't have anything against it because someone invested in building their own small public record company, but I have against it being that at the same time someone else, some child, who had been properly educated, took all these extensive professional exams, disabled access to the market to establish and open their own public record office and to operate in it. Now, this law is not touched in any way by this matter. And what I think is particularly controversial in the reasoning of this Law is that the upcoming planned expansion of the circle of public notebooks, three dots, thus reducing the number of new public notaries. My question is, why didn't we immediately discuss all the issues of public notebooks, and what new public notebooks will do under these amendments and additions? Why every once in a while, another law without any plan or order. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106608	Thank you, too. And the last final presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will have a distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106609	Since I see that the proposaler's representative has not come forward with the closing statement, I can only repeat those questions that have remained unanswered in the debate on behalf of the club that I have already highlighted. Many legal articles proposed to be amended in the first article have disappeared from the final draft of the law. Instead of them, some others change. If we look for an explanation of the differences between the first and second readings of the law, we see that the differences are mainly due to lobbying from public records, while the explanations that the Ministry gives us are more than a shura and come down to phases, different phrases about nomotechnics. Given the number and significance of the difference between the first and second reading of the Law, I am justifiably wondering what happened here. This Law, like any other, has passed all previous stages in its creation, has been done even of course, public consultation and indeed wonders after all, so many provisions in the second reading had to be changed. All of a sudden, Croatia's public record chamber appears and based on its observations that are not available to us as parliamentary representatives, the law is changed to a greater extent. The big differences between two readings in themselves are the problem because there is no good enough argument for them and here, I repeat, there are only two explanations possible. Either the Ministry gave in to some, unknown, non-institutional pressures, or the proposal in the first reading was prepared amateurally and thoughtlessly. There's no third reason, and it can't be. There is obviously no interest in this debate, which is evident from these erected microphones, so as if we are in the field of macaque, not in the Croatian assembly where black microphones are in front of us and we do not see the faces of the representative who would overshadow them. But these are for us, we can tell, the parent themes. So much as we're the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, and now we're editing matter regarding the judiciary. And I will go back to what I mentioned in the introduction, which provides a broader picture and insight into the very state of things when we talk about the Croatian judiciary. Minister Malenica was right here in the Assembly, responding to the replicas of the MPs, presenting information that should be of concern to us. He boasted that Croatian courts were in 2021. receive 158,000 items more than in 2020. We don't have an explanation of these figures, is it about a new trend because of the growing difficulties in economic flows, is it about changes in the system of court records and procedures or something else that we can't identify right now. However, in Croatia, the situation of court cases has been systematically monitored for some time, with a methodology that is relatively stable and based on a comparative monitoring of general trends in the work of the judicial authority. And what is a sad fact is that our judicial policy as well as most other sectoral policies deals with the treatment of symptoms while... the variable of judicial statistics annual inflows of cases is more or less from year to year very similar and makes a constant in Croatia. When we go back to the law that was first here, the Act of Signing, manuscripts and transcripts that has been in force since '74. It is clear that the modern Croatian state, and I have given several examples of other laws and its legislators have failed to adopt a modern and stable legislative framework for the regulation of disputed and uncontested court proceedings in cases belonging to private-law relations. I don't need to, and I'll conclude with that, go far away to find the culprits for our economic failures or why no one wants to invest in serious business in Croatia and why entrepreneurship in Croatia is not popular. In order for all of this to be achieved, the precondition for economic growth and development is a regulated legislative framework, and what we are currently seeing is still not the case from these proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106610	Thank you. This is what we're done with the club fairs. Does the Secretary of State Salapic want to take the floor on behalf of the promoter? No, I don't. If I don't close the debate then we'll vote when the conditions are met. I will now declare only a short break of five minutes before we move to the next item of the agenda. So we continue the session at 12.45. MEETING AT 12:40 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:45 A.M.]] We move on to as we decided this morning to a united debate on the following two points, which are: - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. for the purposes of national minorities and the debate on: - The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the expenditure on funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 for the needs of national minorities. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Foundation of Art. 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Anya Shimprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106613	I thank the vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Article. The 37th century 3. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities shall regularly submit to HS a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. During 2019 and 2020 The Government of the Republic of Croatia, through competent authorities in all areas, has carried out activities that have contributed to further improving the protection of the rights of members of national minorities. As a party to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit periodic reports to the Council of Europe on the legislative and other measures taken to comply with the principles set out in that Convention. At the meeting held on 28 March 2019 The government adopted the 5th report on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities for the period from 2014 to 2018 and the same in May 2019. addressed to the Council of Europe for consideration. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee for the Framework Conventions for the Protection of National Minorities on 8 October 2020 adopted its 5th opinion on the implementation of the Framework Convention by the Republic of Croatia, which implemented the evaluation of the 5th report by the Republic of Croatia to that Advisory Committee in May 2019. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. a statement was made on the 5th report of the Advisory Committee and was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 17 December 2020. In order to further improve the existing level of protection of the rights of national minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted operational programmes of national minorities in December 2020 for the period 2021-2024, which Further positive developments have been achieved in areas where a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is regularly achieved. The co-financing of numerous associations and institutions of national minorities through the Ministry of Culture and the Council for National Minorities has been continued in the area of achieving the cultural autonomy of national minorities. In the field of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been achieved and students are successfully trained according to existing models of education, such as A, B and C. Furthermore, co-financed procurement of didactic funds, professional training of educators, teachers, professional associates, the making of exams for graduation and the implementation of graduates in the languages of national minorities, the co-financed procurement of teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, the salaries of teachers and advisors in the language and letter of national minorities, scholarships, accommodations and others have been financed. The Ministry of Science and Education during 2020 made decisions on various curriculas for teaching courses Hungarian language and literature for primary and secondary school model A and model C, for the teaching subject of Slovak language and culture in primary and secondary schools model C and for the teaching subject language and culture of the Roma national minority in primary and secondary schools model C. Furthermore, in representative and executive bodies at national and local level, prescribed representation in HS and representative and executive bodies of the local and regional (regional) administrations was achieved. In the area of the exercise of the rights of national minorities to access the media through the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the Agency for Electronic Media shall be regularly each year in the context of a public tender to media service providers in the category of national minority in the Republic of Croatia. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in collaboration with the Council for National Minorities each year organises a seminar on the role of the media in democratisation of Croatian society. On 1 March 2019, HS adopted the Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, which fully regulates elections for councils and representatives of national minorities. The election for councils and representatives was held on 5 May 2019 and 19 May, a total of 352 councils and 108 representatives of national minorities were elected in the elections. In the Register of Councils of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities by the end of 2020, A total of 102 representatives of national minorities, 342 councils of national minorities, and 12 co-ordinations of councils and representatives of national minorities were enrolled. In the area of the exercise of the right of members of national minorities to the official and equal use of their language and letters in 2019, a significant increase in the procedure was observed in front of the authorities of the judicial authority in the language of the national minority. The Ministry of Justice in the Administration reports that in 2019 a total of 47 procedures were conducted in the language of the national minority, which represents an increase compared to 2018 when 17 proceedings were conducted in the language of the national minority. Certain shifts in 2020 were observed in several units of local self-government such as Borovo, Krnjak, Donji Lapac, Ervenik, and more significant progress in the exercise of that right was recorded in the Municipality of Markusica, which in 2020 joined the amendments and amendments to the statutes in which compliance with the legal provisions was made and provisions on the printing of the name of the settlement, traffic signs in language and the letter of the Serbian national minority were incorporated. The analysis of the implementation of the national strategy for Roma inclusion for the period 2013 to 2020 indicates further progress in the exercise of rights in the field of education, health care, employment, housing, social care, and the regulation of status rights as well as the successful implementation of numerous projects at national and local level. The Ministry of Science and Education has continued to make efforts to achieve defined tasks and measures, and given the complexity and comprehensiveness of the objectives set for improving the education of members of the national minority including early childhood education and education of children but in primary, secondary and higher education and of course adult education. In connection with the employment of members of national minorities, according to data from the Ministry of Justice and Administration's records on 31 December 2019, 50,026 employees and tenants were employed by the authorities of the state administration and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of which 3.6% were members of national minorities. On 31 December 2019, 3,06% of members of national minorities were employed in local and regional self-government units. With regard to the employment of members of national minorities on 31 December 2020, 3.07% of all national minorities were employed in government authorities and professional services and offices. According to data provided by the Ministry of Justice and Administration on 31 December 2020, 2,92% of members of one of the 22 national minorities were employed in local and regional self-government authorities. In 2019 and 2020, a number of measures were continued to combat discrimination and hate crimes against national minorities. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities during 2019 coordinated the drafting of a new protocol on the treatment of hate crimes with a view to strengthening the effectiveness of competent authorities, strengthening trust in institutions and improving the data collection system for hate crimes, as well as the demarcation of the obligations of individual bodies dealing with the control of hate crime, determining the obligations of competent authorities involved in the detection, handling and monitoring of the results of procedures conducted in cases of hate crimes and defining specific forms for statistical collection of hate crime cases. In the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination during 2020. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has co-ordinated the creation of a new national plan for the protection and promotion of human rights as well as the prevention of discrimination for a multi-annual period. The Implementing Document of that National Plan will be an action plan to combat discrimination for a three-year period. This will ensure the continuity of the strategic action in the area of avoidance of discrimination and compliance with the current legislative framework for strategic planning. Finally, in connection with financial resources, according to the received data from the ministries and all other competent authorities for the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2019, 188 000 500, 188 million 507 000 882 kuna were spent, and in 2020, we had 27,5 million kuna more than it was in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106614	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Spijic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106615	Thank you very much. I must first express my regret that in 2022 we are talking about a report from 2019 and 2020. Well, good. Since Mr Plenkovic sat in the government in 2016 until 2020, to which this is the case, the report to the Serbian National Council of Donations from the budget grew by 287%, respectively. Since 2016 you have had 9.9 million kuna, in 2020 you have 28 million and 508,000 kuna. My question is, can you briefly say of those 28 million and 500 thousand kunas that are the three main items that you have that money going to from these 28 million and 500 thousand kunas? With the Serbian National Council working as far as I know who the citizens' association is. It's the money of all let's tell all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so if you can answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106616	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106617	Thank you, Your Honor. What I can say and answer your question is that here today we are discussing the total amounts that are, which are financed by associations and legal persons worth national minorities, and that all the data is shown here and everything is clearly visible, transparent and if you are interested in anything specific about the Serbian National Council, you have a place where you can address and get all the information, and by respecting the Law of Access to Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106618	The next replica of my colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106619	Dear Vice President, our beautiful hoodie, oh, you Kraut pipe dear, old glory grandfather, to kill everything, dear canonado, you're the only one, dear to us where you're flat, sweet unselective, Holder's and Sava run, Vukovar's asphalt depth, in front of Lisa's world, tell us that the artillery of the Croats loves it, while the meron's sun warms up, while the Serbs hide its graves, the hoodie beats everything. No, this is not a text from some enemy newspapers since the Homeland War, this text is from the weekly Serbian National Council News so-called. Popov's news. This is what one cover of the news looks like, our beautiful burns nicely. The same news is being financed from the Croatian State Budget, of all citizens of this country. Do you think it is appropriate for these texts to come out and be financed from the Croatian State budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106620	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106621	I thank the honourable representative and may not respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106622	Here's a colleague of Pavlik's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106623	Injury of the Rules of Procedure to Injure the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, the deputy prime minister demeans the parliamentary representative because he does not want to answer the question. There are 22 national minorities in Croatia, I think 20 are financed from the state budget. Every national minority has its rights and obligations and every national minority as well as the majority Croatian people, what they should do is respect the state they live in. This is all just disrespect for the Croatian state and I'm sorry you can't say it out loud and clear, and you're sitting in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106624	Time, time. I won't give you a warning since, yes, you have the right to be desirable to respond to, to replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. The vice president felt she shouldn't, but I won't give you a warning. Let's move on, next replica, dear colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106625	Thank you very much. I would only ask why the financing of the Serbian People's Council where Dean Jovic, who says Croatia has failed a political project, and at the time he said it was the president of the Serbian National Council, your predecessor Milosevic and Plenkovic now rewards you, so let him not receive Croatian kunas in his pocket, the Serbian National Council, so let him say that Croatia has failed a political project. So why are we throwing that money away to people who hate Croatia, basically hate it, and we have problems here in the field, I live where people are Serbian nationalities, we have common problems. How do you comment on the Serbian People's Council statement that Croatia has failed a political project by Dean Jovic, who is an intellectual, as he says?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106626	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106627	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question. The Serbian National Council is a roof organisation of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia and all the councils that are members of this coordination and association have their rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and as such can be financed, worked and operated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and when you mention in particular your end, I hope that there will be opportunities for us to solve together the problems of access paths to the church in the area of Sinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106628	Thank you. We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Bull's, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106629	Thank you very much... 238, not according to the church but to the Orthodox cemetery, nor does anyone care, to the church is a river road, other problems have an Orthodox church in Sinj, you are obviously misinformed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You did not comment, I am not defending Jovic that he is saying what he thinks but is paying him to Croatian citizens with Croatian kunas as he says the failed political project. We could direct that money here for this trip to the Orthodox cemetery of St. Petra in Sinj, and you are not but paying Croatian haters, who he gives attitudes, whose attitudes he gives, and we pay for it, Plenkovic pays for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106630	Comrade Bulj, thank you, I must give you a warning, given that you did not actually use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for what you needed but rather expressed your dissatisfaction with the answer given to you, and you do not like it, so you have a warning. Let's move on, next replica of my colleague Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106631	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Chimpraga, therefore, in the area of the exercise of the right to the official and public use of the language and letters of national minorities, in the opinion of the Council for National Minorities in these reports during 2020. progress has not been made in the desired objective and despite the prescribed obligation to bring the JLS Statute into line with the National Minorities Constitutional Act, local environments still exist where this has not been done or has not been done until, until the end, fully. What we notice in this report in '19. And the '20s. is that it has not been implemented, the Ministry of Administration and the Justice has not implemented measures aimed at administrative oversight of the statutes of local units, so my question is very simple, will you from your new position correct that I would say a mistake that there is no administrative supervision to bring these local statutes in line with the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106632	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106633	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. As you saw in the 27 JLS report, we also saw in 2020 that there were improvements in some JLS, e.g. Gračac municipalities they absolutely did nothing about it and it is our task not only for Gračac but also for other JLS who have the right to sit with them, talk and to find ways to make everything that is written in the law to be regulated both in this way and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106634	Thank you. Here's the next replica, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106635	Thank you. Always this kind of discussion opens up the issue of funding for SNV Novosti, actually here I hear here a colleague yelling you should or should comment on and say that it is the freedom of the media, so it is not a questionable freedom of the media, and besides here there is Miro as a Croatian defender, I think they have also fought that everyone in this country can comment, say what it wills, and even these things that we disagree with, which one can take as an attack on the state. This is about funding, whether we're going to finance state money for those who talk and advocate such ideas, and that's actually the problem. And I think the biggest problem is these and I'd like to hear your opinion of the Serbian news or, as a colleague of Popovec's news has said, what they don't really advocate what most members of Serbian nationality think. So I'm convinced that these people Miro is talking about who knows their problems better than you might know them. In fact, they don't want Serbian news to stand up for [[Intruder: Time.]] Some attitudes that are anti-Christian [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Yugoslav Left than Full [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] different attitudes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106636	I have to give you a warning, you've exceeded 13 seconds. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106637	I thank you for the complex question, and you yourself have said that I should have answered it now, and it is clear to you that the freedom of the media is what we need to cherish, what we care about, and that it should not be on this subject so much debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106638	The next replica, the distinguished representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106639	I'm not going to replicate this one, but I'm going to take this event so Mrs. Shimpraga has to defend something that she didn't coordinate and I see it defends well. I want to take this opportunity to congratulate her on her work today and to wish her all the best in the next, next year when she will behave. We also look forward to Mr Boris Milosevic here again because we consider him an honorable man.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106640	This was a replica of congratulations. Here's an answer to your card.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106641	Thank you, Your Honor. After all the outbursts and hatred and intolerance towards me as a person it is nice to hear in the Croatian Parliament and such beautiful words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106642	And the last replica of your opening presentation, the distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106643	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I'm interested in this even though it's not a topic today, but do you perhaps have any information on the withdrawal of the National Minority Council's resources during the pandemic? So, did you maybe encounter some data, do you know, if you could tell us some numbers about whether there was an increase or a decrease in some kind of pandemic affecting that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106644	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106645	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question. I can't talk about the numbers, but I do know that the National Minority Council has taken care of the pandemic conditions in order to improve the functioning of these associations, the payment and everything else they've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106646	Thank you, we've exhausted all the replicas on your opening exposure. Madam Vice President, you may proceed. We have to ask before we begin the debates on behalf of the clubs. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Most Club, the time will be shared by MPs, yeah, changes, okay, on behalf of the Most Club, the MOST representative will only speak for the distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106647	Thank you very much. I also said in the replica that it is, and it is going to begin that the simple relationship with national minorities is a reflection of democracy and the equality of all is most important, so right away at the beginning I say what I think because I am so in principle and raised, so I have lived and so I will die. And that's what I'm gonna talk about. However, it is unclear for me to finance an institution with which, I think, where the vice president or adviser did not know what the Serbian National Council said was a failed political project. At the same time, the vice-president of the Croatian government in 2020 was Mr Milosevic and the president of the Serbian National Council. And no one's denying anything but an increase in funds. So here's not the question of me defending someone to express his position. No, but when someone who is high-ranking in the Serbian People's Council, which is financed from the RS budget, why didn't they say no to me swearing when a political project failed. The kunas were not a failed political project, but he took the kunas because they were important money. That's the problem. The fact that he said that as a person is his political attitude that I disagree with, but, but to receive money that way or, say, here's the thing you mentioned my end. When you mention my end as regards the Serb national minority, of course... National minorities and here MPs, but you as vice president mentioned my end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, in my neighborhood do they read Serbian news, they share those views? LGBT attitudes share those views I don't know which attitudes, attitudes that I don't know what this fellow read now, they share those attitudes, and a lot of those people were those who spoke against Croatia, mocking the anthem, and we're paying it out of the budget. Do they share those attitudes? Is it pure as exclusive and only Yugoslav attitudes. And it's democracy and law, I mean editorial policies. But these people, for that money that you're giving, how much we could solve these problems. So we're propagating politics against Croatia here. Well, I mean, do you know that 9,000 people of Serbian nationality were Croatian defenders, if anyone mentioned them. Here, I'll commend a lot of our colleague Kajtazi made him promote the role of defender of the Roma national minority in the Homeland War. I commended it, I'll commend it again. So he's worked on it a lot. Is anyone working on it, rather than paying exclusively those who, from the budget, say that Croatia is a failed political project. Both the protection and these use of national minorities' funds hope to be used in the best way, but the Croatian state I think is the only one, when I watch here the Republic of Serbia compared to Croatia we see what it is, according to the Croats in Serbia, we have 37 times more in Croatia for the National Minority of Serbia in Croatia than Croatia, Croatia in Vojvodina or Serbia. You have the right to 3 MPs, you have 12 mayors guaranteed, you have the power, you are the majority, I am the minority here right now, so you have everything and okay, but that Croats there have no guaranteed, there the Croat must fight regardless of 2004. the agreement on, which has been signed on proportionality, is not respected. I know... I see the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Glavasevic, you are looking for which article I am breaking, probably a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I am glad to pollemise about this, but we must stress that Croatia, in the Croatian state, is governed by those who have views on the Chetnik party in Banja Luka or whether there was, not in Banja Luka, I don't know whether it was, somewhere it was, when, somewhere it was, I don't know, I don't know on Ravna Gora, somewhere it was for Storm Day, the day of mourning was there and there was a representative of the government, or. Most of Mr. Pupovac, our parliamentary representative, in Croatia everything is allowed, all is allowed by colleague Radin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're 30. in this assembly, and you know that everything is allowed, and no examples of the people of the Serbian national minority say who are positive, who gave their lives from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, who were members, who gave a great role, I commend it means the Serbian national minority because I live with these people and I know their problems well and I accept their problems and I will solve their problems, as you said this triba together and I have no problem with it. However, I have a problem if someone is taking Croatian kunas and making fun of the state as a failed political project, and the prime minister also accepts HDZ colleagues. Dear Mayor Drniš, it is acceptable for you to literally mock at the Chetnik party representatives of your SDSS-HDZ coalition. It's acceptable to you, it's unacceptable to me, it's acceptable to me to have every single man here who sits any Serb, any Croat, every man. So I hope once again that these funds that you have will be targeted for the needs of course for culture, for everything the triba, but do not finance what is unnecessary, what is mocked by the foundations of Croatia, what provokes people, what is done by destruction among people, amongst the peoples of national minorities and the majority people. So I'm sending a clear message from here, the national minorities are in Croatia, they're political thoughts of Croats, but the Serb national minority, I'm talking about it mainly now. However, you who represent in the assembly under a special law do not do this equally to all people, do not do it safely to those who have defended Croatia, certainly according to the defenders, while counterpart Kajtazi does it for his national minority. The role in the Homeland War of the Roma community was a book, it was also described the event and it is commendable. I would like to see the Serbian People's Council play a role in the Croatian troops of Croatian Serbs from HV, police, and there were, I think, with me people and Croatian Defence Forces or HOS, to describe this, the Croatian Council of Defence, there were those people in my desk, there was no such thing, other than the Chetnic parties where Milorad Pupovac goes by, po, to the Storm to go to Serbia as the majority representative, even Milosevic seems to me as vice-president of the government, I can't get enough, and he didn't forget to leave that year, but he was probably a representative. Therefore, it was in Ravna Gora that Dragana was in, that party of Vučićev. ... Al di was a party of Vučićev what on Storm Day in, on Ravna Gora, where he was, I don't know where he was in Serbia... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] If you can, here, we'll wait for you to get rid of me where he was. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So here is once again for all national minorities of course the triba to give up, give the maximum and we as most try to accept them, but you as a majority in the SDSS who, of course, is based exclusively on SNV on News, Democracy, Democracy, of course, have the right to their own opinion, but are financed by Croatian kunas, and talking about Croatia as a failed political project is unacceptable for me. And that these people are fair to say we are not going to Croatian kuna, we are not going from the budget money, Croatia is a failed political project and intellectuals, and believe me that the people of the Serb national minority are much lower in the areas of this rural, marginally much more interested standard, their difficult living conditions that we and the Croats and Serbs and other national minorities in this area together, and here I just want you to answer this few questions that I have asked, and if you can answer as vice-president of the government what you say when someone says that politically, you have not answered me that political Croatia has failed the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106648	Come on, we've got a few injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you can go to your place. The first violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Glavasevic, is here in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106649	Your Honor, ma'am. The vice presidents of the assembly were injured by two articles of the Rules of Procedure, the first is 232, so this was definitely a speech outside the subject because we didn't actually hear about law enforcement but a lot of other things. The second article that was injured was in 238, so our new Deputy Prime Minister is and should not be invited and asked to answer questions about what someone else thinks about whether Croatia is a successful or unsuccessful political project. She's, I'm sorry, let me get a warning, I'm gonna pull a little out of time. The person who experienced a terrible war fate in her childhood is completely comparable to mine. And I believe that with her oath she's in both HS and when she became [[Time, buddy.]] Deputy Prime Minister, I'm gonna get a warning and I'm okay. [[Intruder: colleague Glavasevic.]] That it's offensive for her and for me to call her that kind of thing. [[- You will.]] And for all of us here, it's offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106650	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is now done by you because you've exceeded your time by 28 seconds and you've got a warning, but you would have had, too, if you hadn't exceeded your time because in one good part you've abused the Institute's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106651	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. A representative of the arbitration and insulting speeches according to one part of the Croatian population, namely, talks about LGBT views. I don't know what these LGBT attitudes are, there are LGBT people and I think it's commendable that one daily paper writes positively about the human rights of these people, not putting them in the context of something extremely negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106652	I will not give you a warning because in one part of the fact that, we must stick to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and ensure that we have the right to our position, but that when we express that attitude we do not repeal certain constitutional provisions and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, especially when we talk about minorities, regardless of what kind of minority it is. Comrade Bulj, here you go, and you, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106653	You've injured the article you, the Honorable Vice President, are giving your views to the Assembly's representative... speak, colleague Hajduković and.../incomprehensible/... art. 238 and his colleague Glavasevic, 238. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I was just sticking to the subject because I was belittled as an agent. I have the right to express my views here, I have said, I have asked the question in a very democratic way, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and.../incomprehensible/... you have not even warned them, and you have injured the whole article because you have commented on what is in the Constitution... So I know what the Constitution is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106654	Thank you. Here's the thing, let's do it in a row. Just a second. My leadership and leadership of this session, among other things, must be neutral and I must take care of it to ensure peace and order so that the session can take place. Secondly, what is my obligation while I chair here is to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is not violated, but also to keep in mind that constitutional provisions or laws of the Republic of Croatia are not offended. Thirdly, I am obliged when someone raises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to explain whether or not I will give a measure of urgency to someone afterwards. In order to explain it, I have to explain why to someone, why you who've committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure is, or you're on the right track, and I've done it without using any of my powers, if I've made a mistake, I'd be the first to give myself a warning, there have been such examples here. Let's move on. You are, I will not give you a warning because you used your breach of the Rules of Procedure to warn you that perhaps the Rules of Procedure has been hurt by me, I disagree with you, but that is no reason to give you notice because you have not hurt the Rules of Procedure this time. But you want to indicate again that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, here you go. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106655	You've hurt, you've hurt an officer. 238,... Your rules of procedure continue to disdain MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You're still explaining what you've done, what you've done, what measures, discretionaryly your right. More and more you remind me of this Mr. Academy Knight in running the session, the knight of Mr. Reiner. If he's giving his opinions, too. A parliamentary speaker from a pay phone can say within the subject of what he wants, so the people chose us, and you are in violation of the absolutely Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106656	You've now exceeded your time, if you think I, uh, hurt the Rules of Procedure, you know who you can and what time this one is talking to. ... Go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go, for this I'll give you this one, I'll give you a warning for this now because I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you have misused the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and I will only repeat that we here are obliged to explain our actions. We have a request for a break, colleague Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106657	Yeah, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the National Minority Club to try to take a stand together whether Mr. Bulj was in the topic or not because we haven't figured it out yet. Someone thinks he was in the dark, for example. He, and someone thinks he was off topic, I think, everyone else. Also, I want to take advantage of that break along with Mr. Kajtaz, Keatazi, and Madame. Jeckov to think about how difficult it will be for you now and how difficult it has been for you so far and how you will have to deal with the attitudes you disagree with and with the attitudes you cannot give before the debate begins, or do you think you can't give. I wish happy work to you, the happy work of the gentlemen who are here, and I see that there are more, I would say anthropologist than the Indians here and wish for all the best Mr. Bulju who has again sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106658	Of course we'll give you a break, on behalf of the club. I don't bother and I don't think I'm struggling. It is my duty here to hold a session in this charge that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the Constitution be harmed and that this debate be civilised, but immediately I say that those who wish to be accepted by this debate now, or at this duel, in the diary, or to be removed from the session that they will not succeed. I can do this by tomorrow. Here you go, Comrade Bull. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106659	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, my colleague, Radin, has injured Article 238, disdaining the MPs, and it has not been a break in the subject. So you know what the law is, it's not the law on the position of Mira Bulja, but you know what we're discussing about the Report of National Minorities, and he's literally been talking about my position on whether it's off the topic or whether it's on the subject. But he's a parliamentary representative who's had one vote and doesn't get many more, and here he's already been a drone for 30 years, and I, who have a lot more votes, am not going to say how much I have the right to express my position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106660	Comrade Bulj, you've exceeded your time, and among other things, you've misused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure because you've actually used a breach of the Rules of Procedure to refer to someone's request for a break. Therefore, I must give you a reminder on the basis of Article 240(2) of the Rules of Procedure by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject, and then, uh, we still have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and we are going to take a break. Here you go, colleague Jeckov. What's the injured Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106661	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, our colleague Furio Radin, a representative of the Italian national minority in the Republic of Croatia, was called a drone. It's another one in a series of epithets that becomes part of this tall home's vocabulary. I find it really inappropriate, and that's why I expect your reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106662	My colleague Jeckov won't give you a warning, but I just have to warn you that your breach of the Rules of Procedure was actually unnecessary because I've already responded. And now I declare a five-minute break, and I'll see you in, six minutes, at 13 and 35, we'll proceed with the session. It's 13,29 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:37 A.M.]] Next up is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will be spoken by counterpart Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106664	Respected HS Vice-President, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister. National minorities should be the wealth of one state, and I think in most countries it is that way. And if you are a member of a national minority, you should be proud of your national identity, safeguarding your customs, your faith, your culture, your language, and so should modern society. In Croatia there are 22 national minorities on the current 2011 list. So we have 17,513 Albanians, we have 297 Austrians, 31,479 Bosniaks, 350 Bulgarians, 4.517 Montenegrins, 9,641 Czechs, 14.048 Hungarians, 4.138 Macedonians, 2,965 Germans, 672 Poles, 16,975 Roma, 435 Romanians, 1,279 Russians, 1,936 Russian, 4,753 Slovaks, 10,517 Slovenians, 186,633 Serbs, 17.807 Italians, 367 Turks, 1,878 Ukrainians, 29 Vlachs and 509 Jews. It's the last official list, probably something of this new data will be changed. And a large part of these national minorities I think 22, 20 of them finance from the state budget, primarily through their minority councils. Of these all minority councils, the Serbian National Council, given that both the Serb national minority and the most numerous, receives the most funds and in 2021. At the National Minorities Council, it is funded with more than 3 million kuna, and we also know that this Serbian National Council is funding the issue of News Weeks. Namely, every national minority as well as the majority of the Croatian people is expected to respect the state in which you live, you have certain rights, you have certain obligations and I think that Croatia is despite the very high degree of integration of national minorities in society with a number of rights manifested in political rights, guaranteed mandates at local, regional and state level with its representatives in government and many of the older democracies have not even given the national minorities around this threshold given by the Republic of Croatia. But what's the minimum minimum of respect for the country in which you live. Unfortunately, the editorship of News with its inscriptions, with its texts neither respects this country nor the foundations of its value. Here we have this famous cover beautiful our beautiful mountain which has been issued for military redistribution action “Storm”. Is this appropriate for a newspaper, or weekly, which is financed from the state budget? Is it appropriate to make fun of the Croatian anthem under the title Beautiful Our Hubby? Is it appropriate to make fun of high church officials, primarily Catholic clerics? He wants to make fun of right-wing politicians among whom I belong, but it is not appropriate to finance with Croatian kunas and to spit in the Croatian state. It's not appropriate and it has nothing to do with democracy, it has nothing to do with journalistic freedoms, it has nothing to do with human rights. I don't mind, however, that national minorities are financed from the state budget to have their cultural manifestations, to have their own sporting manifestations, to finance their own press releases in their own language, but I do not mind that these things are financed from the state budget. And this is the result of the HDZ and SDSS coalition, which should be said openly and clearly. Some Croatian citizens know what decisions are made by the government of the Republic of Croatia which can be financed in this country. And once again, national minorities are the wealth of every country, but national minorities must respect the country they live in. But hardly will members or a good part of the members of the Serb national minority of Croatia view the country as their own and the favors are towards it when the main political representatives here in HS cannot answer, their representatives, cannot answer very simple questions, from "Storm", from how the Homeland War started or they avoid answering that, or they say it is not the same for us. Then how can you expect your community to think differently? I will not go in so that you do not leave the topic and question who is represented by the Serbian People's Council? Whether it represents all these 184,000 Serbs or only those who were in occupied areas because these statements turn out to represent only one part of the Serb community that stood up against the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, and there were those who were on the Croatian side even with weapons in their hands. So I think there's a lot of things to clean up in your backyard and say openly, so you're the owners of these newspapers, so let's just say a lot, don't insult the country we live in, don't insult it. It has nothing to do with journalistic freedoms. With these texts, you bring in additional unrest and you bring in extra impatience unnecessarily because this has nothing to do with human rights, with journalistic freedoms, this is pure provocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106665	Thank you. We are going to the next club, it is the Club of Representatives of National Minorities on behalf of whom will speak the distinguished representative and vice president of the Croatian Parliament of colleagues Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106666	Thank you very much, dear colleague vice president. Mrs. Shimpraga, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tahiri, State Secretary, Counselors and dear counterparts of Bucharest, I am a little disabled with the fact that there is no Mr. Bulj here because I wanted to do a little polymize with the things he said, and since I am not going to give him at all these false allegations that no longer exist in our Rules of Procedure, then get properly sanctioned, but this one can be used by anyone who states naturally in the speech. Then I won't talk about it at all. I'm going to talk about something, first I'm going to say that we're going to vote for these, for those reports, and second I'm going to talk about things of course that aren't in this report and we're very much holding, and I'm going to go a little bit into '21, '21. Year, 2021. Of course, at some point, you're gonna have to interrupt me because this one's got the impression that I have a speech in more than 10 minutes, but it doesn't matter. There is an offended opinion in a part of the population, and today we have heard something in this style that being a member of a national minority is actually a privilege. And being a representative of a national minority means being caught, being like, not being here, so I'm not gonna use the word, being a lobbyist, doing some business. Since this is about firm attitudes and these hard attitudes, it is usually about people who already have a certain number of years of age who can say that I have no intention of changing those attitudes, because after certain years it is impossible to change attitudes rather than to say what I think. And those who think otherwise keep their attitudes that I think are wrong but because of tolerance, I'll never say they're wrong, but I'll say I don't agree with those people. So I won't pollomise with firm views, but I believe that minorities, that minorities have more than most, that minorities have more money than most, that members of national minorities have too much power in Croatian society, that this is something that we have seen in the last century, and that is something that has produced very big problems, and that Croatia is one small country and that these groups that represent such attitudes are still marginal, and they are not dominant. We are fortunate to have the dominant, I'm talking about political life, for this second one we should do research, dominantly in political life we have the political forces of the left and right center, which support the rights of national, national, national minorities. So, uh, these two reports, as said earlier in general, say that I'm going to go back to that, that part that my colleague Simprag read. In general, they say that this one, here it is, that the views are consultative, that the views of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, their views and their recommendations, are their 5 opinions on the implementation of the Framework Convention on... The Republic of Croatia says they're mostly respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to say that I mostly agree with that finding, and now I'm going to say a few words about it, about where they're not, where they're not respected. In general, we can say that from a financial point of view and here we agree with those who have said it, even if in a negative sense from a financial point of view there are certain positive shifts and, of course, we are grateful for these shifts which mean that the proposals of associations and other bodies of the national minorities are respected, and on the other hand, we think that because we have been very lagging behind for decades before this, it is still not as much as the national minorities that I do not know now will be the percentage of the population in this census but who occupy around 7, 7 and a half percent of the population. That's not enough yet, but the shifts are very visible. And that's what my national minority of these shifts sees and from that part of the financial point of view can't say anything other than that our hand when we adopt these reports will certainly be raised with 100% conviction. In the field of education and education, in the languages of national minorities is the situation, but even here it remains largely unchanged. But when it is said that it is not damaged, it remains largely unchanged, it is said that there are programmes a, b and c, but that, for example, Serbian schools are not yet registered, schools in Serbian language in eastern Slavonia. It is said that the problem of the state's graduation as far as the Italian national minority is concerned has not been solved yet. I would ask you to keep that in mind because, of course, Mr. Fuchs will have to talk about it more. There's a lot to be done here. One shift was made in the translation of books, school books. School books are translated more than they used to. The problem of bilingualism of another language commission, the Council of Europe found that even in Istria, where all bilingualism was best respected even in Istria, there was a certain stalemate. I'm not going to talk about what kind of impasse we're facing in Eastern Slavonia. As for Roma involvement, shortly before I spoke with Mr. Kheitazi, the problem of segregating the Roma in Međimurje remains. And as for the development of tolerance, the problem as the ethnic businessman says is, yes, who came from an unforeseeable place, right, which spread after by all pores of society [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Especially from the right, this problem actually shows [[Intruder Voter: Time.]] that tolerance really does not exist in this respect. [[Intruder Voter: Comrade Radin, please stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106667	Thank you. We're going to the next club of representatives, it's a Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106668	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister with state institutions, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the content of the Report for 2019 and 2020 on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as a continuation of the status and position of national minorities in our society, which we have recorded in continuity from 2016 as positive, noting that, in addition to a number of excerpts, mainly stemming from the operational programme of the Government of the Republic, for the national minorities of the first period of 2016 to 2020 and... Between 2021 and 2024. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During this period, the improved cooperation and funding of the programme for all national minorities, in which the encouraging co-ordinatorial role in the incentive of resor, was taken by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic himself, and by his ministers, with the support of the roof organisations of national minorities and with the exceptional pawnage and governmental offices of the primary Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, as well as the Council for National Minorities. In 2020, I would particularly point out the role of the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Social Activities and Human Rights who also acted as president of the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Plan for Roma Inclusion for the period 2021-2027 as an inter-resolute body serving as a form of discussion and support for the implementation of a number of activities stemming not only from the aforementioned National Plan for Roma but also from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I reiterate the operational programmes of the Government for National Minorities, which, unlike the Strategic Documents and the Constitutional Law, are the broadest foundation to regulate the rights of national minorities, constitute an implementing document with clear deadlines and holders of activities. Of course, the problem remains very special when we talk about the situation of the Roma national minority, social and social problems as well as those to which it is being addressed, especially education shows that there is still much to be done for the integration of the most vulnerable members of the Roma national minority, in particular to focus on young members of the Roma national minority in the ghettoised settlements and to do even more to provide them with a prerequisite for education from preschools to higher schools, and an encouraging model of integration in society itself. Unfortunately, Roma settlements have never filled black chronicles before, so we are already in February 2020. recorded the murder of the mother of 11 children in the Roma village of Piskorovec near Malia Sobotica. The next 2021. In August, another murder, the wounding of five people including a child in a Roma settlement in Parago. Although we have discussed in the media the issue of the guilt of institutions, individuals, me, police, the Roma community, the answer to this question is only systematic and coordinated action through the implementation of agreed activities in these documents to remove the causes of the problems mentioned, alcoholism, drugs, interest, domestic violence, crime rates, poor educational outcomes, more and more segregated schools, etc. In all of this, we are particularly sharpened and the writing of certain mainly local media that attributed all these problems to the entire Roma community, all incidents of individuals connected with the goal, with the whole community and thus continuously encouraged hate speech and discrimination both on the Internet and in real life, which is what I condemn this way. Speaking of national level, I must say that I am satisfied with the government of the Republic of Croatia's policy, but I am not satisfied with the level of national and local coordination, nor with the cooperation of the local level with the elected representatives of the Roma community. The situation of course varies depending on one to the other JLS, but I must say that the relations of the most numerous Roma community in Međimurje with the local level have been violated, and that this cooperation is particularly bad from... I want a normal life in Međimurje. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, because of the situation on the labour market, we note that a large number of Roma are employed by the fact that in Croatia, which outside of Croatia on temporary work, and we note the same by improving the position of the Roma national minority. As I said earlier, we import tens of thousands of foreign workers who do not know Croatian while we still do not have a satisfactory level of employment within the Roma community, which is one of the main problems that we should all continue to work on together. When we talk about the preconditions and causes of the problems I have mentioned, and the issue of education is precisely the issue of employment and living conditions. Also, there are two problems that are the slowest and hardest to solve. Contrary to some media interpretations, what I've been saying for years, and what shows is a series of research into both domestic and PISA, research shows that socioeconomic status is one of the main predictive factors of educational success. What is also important to say, and that we must spend certain resources on this problem, but these funds are also not a solution but a means. There is a particular need to highlight work in the community itself, therefore field work, working with the youngest, and our work at national level is to create technical and financial conditions for the cooperation of the Roma community and the local community either through associations, schools, kindergartens, preschools, etc.. Despite the efforts of a number of individuals of the Centre for Social Care, many mayors, mayors or mayors enter Roma settlements only before elections, which is not a good message and it is something the Roma community also notices and punishes in local elections. With all the problems that I mention, of course, and all the known problems of the world pandemic of coronaryvirus and the earthquake in Banovina and Zagreb, and inflation and energy collection represent a problem that has multiple negative effects on the most vulnerable groups such as Roma. The restriction of movement and work has particularly affected those who are not constantly employed, and the period of the first lockdown has been particularly challenging for them, and I must commend the Roma Alliance in Croatia Kali Sara, Kali Sara, who, in co-operation with civil protection and with the support of the government, has carried out numerous field humanitarian activities, information and support programmes for the Roma community. Of course, cultural events are difficult or in no way organised at both national and international level. The first major international conference organised by the Roma community took place only last month in Zagreb at the conference "Roma as Indian Diaspora - Unbreakable Relationships". Finally, despite a number of problems, I would like to reiterate that the direction of movement and activity at the level of the state would be extremely favourable, and this would also highlight the work of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Activities and Human Rights, and a resolution such as the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds on Infrastructure, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, on the issue of improving living conditions, the Ministry of Science and Education when we talk about scholarships and educational issues, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, together with the Environmental Protection Fund when we talk about the electing of Roma settlements and the removal of illegal waste dumps, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Space, Construction and State Property, as well as the Ministry of Labour, the Pension System, Family and Social Policy. All these resors, like others, have taken steps that are important, and cooperation with all other resors was good if needed. In conclusion, I repeat, that we are positively assessing the development of the situation at national level from 2016 to today, as well as in these crisis pandemic years that have affected all, although I have spoken mainly about the Roma community in this exhibition, I believe that they can be satisfied with the other minorities that I represent especially because of the activities of the National Minorities Council through which they have been significantly increased separations for programmes and content of all minority associations, and it is important to say [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that this trend has continued to this day. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106669	Comrade Katazi, thank you. Following on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, Honorary Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106670	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, allow me, at the beginning of the debate, to spend just a minute of our time together on disclosing some of the things we've had to hear here. I'm afraid that there are often pears and apples involved here so some mention the LGBT community, it's a minority community but it's also not a national minority but a sexual minority, and members of the LGBT community can be Croats, Hungarians, Italians, Roma etc., etc. But when we settle that, we go back to the national minorities. If we see the state as one mosaic, a colorful mosaic that works first and makes up its people. As you know, mosaics consist of small, small segments that together make up one big picture, so I think that Croatia or the Croatian mosaic or whatever you want to say consists of small carpenters made up of its people. All minorities, all majority, all national, sexual, confessional or other minorities and majority. Together they make up a mosaic that we call our country Croatia. And as such, I think it's both inevitable and that this mosaic is incomplete if any of those little carpenters of those little segments are left out. And that's why, as some colleagues and colleagues before me have said before, I think our national minorities in this case are, above all, talking about them and our wealth. Multiculturality, openness, inclusiveness, progressiveness should be the decisions of our society, and that is what we at the Social Democrats Club are particularly committed to. So, as we have already mentioned these carpenters, some of these carpenters are also our national minorities. It is because minorities need additional help to preserve their specialities, in order to protect their identity, but by keeping their specialities and protecting their identity, we are also enriched by the majority of the people and enriched by the tracks that we call Croatia. That is why we think that the Constitutional Law, the implementation of the Constitutional Law, and then the assistance of minorities in their guaranteed constitutional rights, are very important because when we talk about minority rights, we are not just talking about minority rights to protect our identity, language and so on, we are talking about human rights as is recognised in the framework of the Council of Europe as if I am not cheating on the Vice President of the House Mr Furio Radin specifically stated that. Through the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, certain rights are consumed, so I said above all protection of cultural identity and autonomy, language care, education, etc. Of course there are many more difficulties in implementing this law, of course there are many, many shortcomings that perhaps we can discuss in the implementation itself. What I would say only for this speaker, and I believe that it has not yet been mentioned is that it is a little disappointing that only in 2022 we are discussing the year 2019 and 2020. We think this is an important topic that, in which we would at least try to hold on, hold on, hold on to some pace not only for our minority communities but for most. So far, so far, Mr Radin and Mr Keatazi's presentations, which are some of the difficulties that our minorities face, or in which segments there are certain problems. You wouldn't apostrophe them again. I'd only get some out. This is primarily education or the availability of school books or textbooks in the languages of national minorities because there are difficulties in this regard too. I would encourage the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and all other competent institutions to do so more. My colleague, Radin, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned that there are more translations about the Italian national minority, but that is, in general, but I think we're still coughing there, and it could still be much better. I would, of course, also point out the Roma national minority who deserves and special attention precisely because they need additional assistance in integration in society and I would point out that we have had a decade to include Roma and an action plan for Roma inclusion, which should certainly be continued. And from this pay phone, I'm calling on local self-government units to get into this as much as possible, to support our representative, Katazia, who's already visited the field, and I don't know how many times, but also to all the associations and councils and communities that are trying to work on this. The Roma national minority as you know it is specific, and that is why it is necessary to invest additional effort, although I am glad to say and I must say here and with a certain amount of pride that Croatia really is ahead of us in this matter and that in many, many segments, at least as far as the Roma national minority is concerned, we can be an example. Not all of us, unfortunately we still have problems, but I believe with goodwill and continuous work they can get rid of. This applies, and now that we are talking about the Roma and the east of Croatia specifically to Osijek-Baranja County where there are also certain problems, but I must commend some units of local self-government that have taken business on integration and inclusion of Roma seriously, some and not so much, and that is why I think they should be encouraged to make additional efforts. I would like to leave another thought with you not necessarily so much about the subject, but also a question that should be very important to us, and that is a matter of reciprocity and of Croatian minorities in the surrounding neighbouring countries because there are also many problems and I think it is convenient to mention this problem here. I am glad that as I said, we respect and cherish the cultural autonomy and identity of our minorities, but I would expect our neighbouring countries to do the same for the Croatian minority. If you don't think I'm just gonna talk about problems, there are good examples, and they're not that good. As a good example, I always like to name the Croatian minority in Hungary, which is highly organised, appreciated by the state supported and, say, whose educational institutions are among the most esteemed in Hungary, that is indeed a very flattering thing. But they have some problems, too, specifically with textbooks, translations, etc. which should be dealt with more effectively. There is a problem for the Croatian minority in Serbia where the still official Belgrade seems to be trying to split Croatia's national minority into two. I am glad that we finally have a representative, or in this meeting, we will have a re-representation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that we will be able to solve some problems on this side. It is also good that national minorities are represented in parliaments, including Croatia, as they show how more effective and faster problems are solved if they are involved in political life. Of course different countries have different approaches to this, we have one of, and these are guaranteed places for certain national minorities and groups, but as I said, their presence and involvement in political life again added value to us as a majority people, but also added value to solving their problems. With these thoughts I'd like to leave you with the hope that in the future we'll have a new Deputy Prime Minister here is to be more up-to-date in discussing these reports as much as possible. This is going to you now, but you should actually go to the presidency of HS, currently chaired by a fellow member of the opposition, so it's not what you would say on a clean Croatian Setter agenda, but here's a colleague and a colleague from the majority I believe will also pass on to the majority's leadership to like to look at these reports in more real time because looking at 2019 and 2020 it's like watching another world. So before the pandemic, before the earthquake, before the war in Ukraine, there was a completely different atmosphere in the world and so on in Croatia. Here, in the name of the Social Democrats Club, we will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106671	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates on behalf of the club. The next club is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Ivana Kekin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106672	Thank you. Dear Chairman, everyone else here today. Yeah, I'd agree that it's really weird, but it's still not unusual for us to discuss the 2019 and 2020 reports in 2022, but that's often happening to us, so let's cut to the chase. So, first of all, the reports show a still unsatisfactory degree of attainment by the Constitution of guaranteed rights, starting with equal application, official use of language and letters of national minorities, where despite the decisions of the Constitutional Court, there is no shift in the plan for the exercise of rights and the right to integration. To begin with, the Ombudsman also warned, the legal threshold of at least a third of the population of individual minorities in units of local self-government to introduce equal official use of minority language and letters is too high and does not comply with the European Charter and excludes those units that we have a number of people who are members of a national minority, but slightly lower than one-third. The possibility of such units being self-initiated by the statutes introducing minority languages into equal and official use is not sufficient, because in practice it is carried out extremely unequal and in fact exposes discrimination and those who are discriminated against, for example, Serbian under the law was introduced into 23, and on the basis of the statutes in only one unit, while Italy was introduced into one, and on the basis of statutes in as many as 20 units of local self-government. In addition, the problem is that there is no legal mechanism when units do not implement obligations under the law on the use of language and letter or if they obstruct it, despite the fact that in 2014, the Constitutional Court has asked the government to come up with a legal framework in which such practice will be sanctioned. For example, in Vukovar, the city council formally observes year after year the constitutional court's order to carry out the debate and decide on the possible extension of the right to use Serbian language and Cyrillic but then the city council finds that in order to systematically postpone proceedings against war crimes perpetrators, there are no necessary preconditions for recognising new and special rights in the context of the equal use of language and letter to the Serb national minority. So, for the sake of inefficient bodies of persecution in the processing of war crimes, we are denying the complete Serb community the right to use our own language and letters. The Latin-Cyrillic signs are still not set in most of the municipalities that provided for it in the statutes, and the government did not even show itself on the recommendation on the need to draw up an action plan for these characters. The level of integration is actually talked about and very defeating the results of research that say that even half of Serbian-language high school students plan to continue studying in Serbia, which in fact clearly speaks about how these high school students feel, how they feel accepted or unaccepted, how much they belong or do not belong, how discriminated and what anxiety they are caused by the fact that they speak a language they experience that others in the environment do not accept it. This report is otherwise neither adequately identified nor adequately identified by the basic underlying problem, and even more problematicly, it does not take measures, nor targets that would eliminate such discriminatory practice. But beyond the language and letters, members of the Serb national minority are daily exposed to systematic discrimination, so many Serbs returnees of which we are all aware of living in undeveloped rural areas, are traffic-insulated, living in poor living conditions and are still unable to achieve their property rights, and their property is still exposed to usurping and devastation. For example, we have compensation for older people of 800 kuna per month granted by the National Compensation Act for older people with certain social and property conditions. But one condition is that you have a condition of residence for an uninterrupted period of 20 years in the territory of Croatia. This means that one good part of the returnees who have all such property conditions, so they are poor enough to say for that fee, they still can't get it because they were once expelled, they didn't come back unfortunately in time to get the 800 kuna. Physical attacks, verbal threats, destruction of property, disabling the use of own property of members of Serbian nationality have been reported in both 2019 and 2020. This is how I came up from the top of my mind with the pursuit of water poloists on the Split Riviera, then the destruction of bilingual and two-letter panels. I also remembered that absolutely disgusting graphite that was placed on Zagreb's Kustoshia. After that, the same disgusting graphite with violent messages to the Serb community was set up in Split. Political concessions of individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament have also been continued, who like to express extreme and humiliating views towards members of the Serb minority during the debate. They are particularly concerned about the messages within the political discourse in which the nationality of politicians is used as an argument for a political assessment, which was the last time we could witness this Friday with stomach nausea. The hate speech, extremist messages, historical auditism, Ustasha symbols and calls are still present in some media, in comments from the portal readers, in social media publications rarely openly calling for murders and violence against Serbs. This may not be surprising, however, since we hear from the mouth of high government representatives an unequivocal expansion of NDH not only in 2019 and 2020, but also in 2022. Along with members of the Serb national minority, Roma national minorities have been extremely discriminated against. For the beginning of both reports, statistics on education of Roma children show a negative trend in which too many children do not even graduate from primary school education, and which translates into statistics on employment that we are not, and then this is justified by the low level of education of members of the Roma national minority. So we don't educate them for what they can't get a job, and then they're unemployed because they're uneducated. In fact, though, these reports point out that problems are actually the most vulnerable and socially endangered children in our society who often do not have the basic conditions of life. However, here's the data from the D.A.'s report that it's domestically depressed, that research shows that it's been deprived from as much as 59 to 78% of Roma households. In such a context, it is amazing that the report completely ignores the fact that due to the epidemic, a large part of the teaching is far away, and it is unimaginable that additional challenges were actually met by children of Roma national minorities. So, the report lists the attorney general's activities, mentions initiatives, mentions civil society associations Are yuyo syrious, all of this is mentioned. But there is no indication of what was actually done by the government to solve these problems. When I remember what it was like for me to be teaching distances in my apartment with all the conditions that I had and how I barely survived it, I don't want to imagine how little Roma were educated at all. So that's exactly the difference between this daily struggle through the system and the difference of that first privilege where we should actually strive for Roma national minorities' children to end their primary school as the only concern, and very, very, very, very far away from that situation. In addition to difficulties in exercising the right to education, Roma national minorities continue to face numerous obstacles to the exercise of employment rights and access to services. Many Roma families living in segregated settlements receive social assistance, but we still have catsh. Given that existing legislation does not allow car owners to receive social assistance in the event that the beneficiary of social benefits has a car or is found to be driven by that person disqualified in relation to receiving social benefits. With such arrangements, we increase segregation because then these same families can hardly reach foods, doctors, kindergartens, or schools that we talk about are very important to us. In addition, the Roma national minority, along with Serbia's frequent target of hate speech on the internet, is further concerned about the sensational and stereotyped reporting of Roma in certain media that have a negative impact on the development of prejudice and strengthens the picture of Roma as problematic parts of society. So, ultimately, nationalism, historical auditism and anti-minor rhetoric are largely directed towards members of the Serb and Roma national minorities. They are systemic, they are systematic, they are chronic, and as such we need to recognize them both clearly and clearly and unequivocally condemn them at every opportunity to finally here after 30 years go towards building mutual respect and developing a culture of tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106673	Thank you, colleague Kekin. You've brought up your colleague Pavličko's injury to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106674	Article 238 has been injured. A colleague demeans parliamentary deputies who do not have the same attitude as her, where she said last Friday there was a hate speech here over the Shimpraga election, that she had stomach nausea. I recommend Gastal, so it'll stop. But if a man listened to her, he would really think that no one here can say that he is a member of this or that national minority. And what's most interesting. You know who the first fighters are for minority issues? Those who live 500 km from the national minorities. You're the strongest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106675	My colleague Pavliček, you have, in fact, replicated your colleague Kekin through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I am the foundation of your article. 239 says the warning. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a distinguished colleague, Krunoslav Katičić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106676	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of these funds for the implementation of activities for national minorities for 2019 and 2020... By reading this, both reports first appear to be relatively similar documents, however, there is one big, large difference between these two documents because both should be placed, among other things and in the time context mentioned here, and therefore I think that these reports are complete and well made, and the time context relates to this particular fact that, in particular 2020, they took place at times when the Covida-19 pandemic existed and where this direct disstination or interaction between members of the national minority and those funds that were listed, could be difficult or difficult to establish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore call for both of us to consider these two reports and that fact. It is therefore important to note that both documents have their own base, i.e. they are based on basic documents, these are operational programmes, which were one from 2017 to 2020, and this is more recent from 2020 to 2024. The importance and strength of this strategic document, which is the base and the basis for the implementation of each report in general and for all activities, lies in this strategic document, the operational programme for national minorities, as we know, exists in Croatia, means the Strategic Planning Act, and therefore this document is considered extremely important and I know that in coordination, both the Government and in all other parts of the interaction and the creation of this process, it respects it. So to remind you, the operational program, both for national minorities, would be more based on this than, for the future, by '24. Mr. It was adopted in December 2020 and continued a truly continuous work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the existing level of protection of human rights of national minorities and so on. some sort of sequence of all the operational programs that have been going on so far. In... There are a number of activities in the operational programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this existing 113, they refer to each individual national minority separately. Before me, some of my colleagues pointed out that there are all national minorities, however, there is no need to repeat it in particular, but I think we can all agree together that care is being taken and that all national minorities are represented regardless of their numbers and activities they have. I would also remind myself that these activities take place in a number of, let's say, groups and areas of realization. So we do, so we usually have activities that apply to members of national minorities on the official and equal use of our language and letters. I don't think it should be particularly stressed that the legislative framework used in this issue is absolutely transparent and clear and that it is realized, in with a certain, somewhere with a better situation, somewhere with a slightly weaker one, but that we can be satisfied in the global part of it. We also have one that refers to the education and education of children in language and to the letter of national minorities who attend. Then, we have the right to access the public media, and I think that it is also, through a variety of different, official, public services shows quite well established, and we have a number of witnesses to update all existing issues and problems that may arise in these problems. I think and I would like to stress that there is an area that is very important, which is depicted, as well as any other nationality, cultural autonomy that exists for national minorities. I think that in this area, everything that is important to a particular minority or to the national manifestation of those feelings is quite well articulated. Also, I think that political participation of national minorities is also good, which is reflected in the number of elected councils in order to.../incomprehensible/... municipal or urban or representative bodies at all levels of the participating state. Of course, it is especially necessary to.../incomprehensible/... touch the part relating to the right and employment of members of national minorities. In that part, depending on the number and the area where it is located on the Republic of Croatia, I think the report clearly shows the figures that this right is quite well represented and that in that part of each report there are increasingly better and better results. In particular, it should be pointed out, although this has already been said several times, the emphasis and integration of the Roma national minority which I think we have both witnessed recently and myself personally and others.../incomprehensible/... fellow parliamentary representatives, that these rights are well realised thanks to the activities of that national minority. Furthermore, it can also be shown that this right to tolerance and diversity and to combat discrimination here is not enough, and I think we should all work together, and let that part be achieved as best and as possible. Even though all these activities have their own verification in financial resources, I think it is evident from both reports that all the funds spent on these activities are transparent and that we are benefiting from the members of the national minority themselves. Finally, I can say that the HDZ Club will, of course, support both of the reports in question, with one note that all these rights of members of national minorities are achieved legally and through the means of the already mentioned operational plans, which means that they are secured in each of these parts of transparency, the public and that is quite important for emphasising predictability. The predictability in the conduct of such is at the benefit of all national minorities so that I think, and thus the entire Croatian people, and therefore again again again, the HDZ Club will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106677	Thank you, buddy. We're moving on, next up is SDSS's Club of Representatives. In the name of the club will speak the esteemed representative Dragana Jeckov. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106678	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice President, I'm looking forward to this number of women at, even at vice-presidential functions, I can't help but notice that regardless of party, ideological or any other belonging. I'm just glad women are in such high places today. And of course other associates also, my respect. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities therefore dates back to 2002, to remind you, and at the end of this year we will mark deliberately not saying to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its application. The constitutional law should be one of the most important documents of the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia and of course with the Constitution itself because it guarantees equality for members of all national minorities. It is precisely this equality and protection that is governed by the constitutional law, which is known to be adopted whether 2/3 is by the majority and by its legal power above other laws. I find an interesting provision relating to the rights of national minorities and says that the right to declare nationality is strictly personal and that no one can in any way influence the way a person wants to plead. The penal law has even prescribed that a one-year sentence will punish one who deprives or restricts the right to freedom of expression of nationality or cultural autonomy. The sentence will punish who, contrary to the rules on the use of language and letter, withholds or restricts a person's right to use his language and letter and would be even more interesting than the mere reading of this provision to see whether and in any way, whether and in any way the competent institutions mention the provision when we know, for example, that in a large number of local self-government units even 23, not only in Vukovar, which is mostly mentioned, and the media usually like to force, members of the Serb community are denied the right to bilingualism. Interestingly, the Advisory Committee for the Control of the Implementation of the Framework Convention recognized certain problems in practice, so it invited us to imagine, imagine the reduction of the threshold, the lower threshold for the official use of language and letters of national minorities in local self-government, self-government and units. And more importantly, they invited us to insurance, all of us to respect and apply the prescribed conditions. In addition, the 6 report of the Committee of Experts on the application of the European Charter on the basis of which the Council of Ministers adopted recommendations for the Republic of Croatia in December states that the legal threshold of at least a third of the population of individual minorities in JLS for the introduction of equal official use of minority language and letters is too high, that it does not comply with the European Charter, and that it excludes those units in which members of national minorities are populated to a significant extent, but in a section lower than a third of the population. This problem is only partially mitigated by the possibility that units of local self-government are self-initiated by the statutes to introduce minority languages in equal and official use, as this is implemented unequally in practice. In addition, in units where minority languages are introduced into equal and official use, the situation differs greatly. From, say, effective use of Italian language to self - esteemed and symbolic written use of other languages, which is mostly composed of bilingual inscriptions on local government buildings. Also, some units that are required to introduce Serbian and Cyrillic letters because Serbs make up more than a third of the population have still failed to comply with the constitutional law or have done so but do not apply bilingualism, even by placing bilingual tables on the municipality building. Some municipalities in which the Serb community makes up most of the population have financed from their own funds the setting up of bilingual panels with the names of destinations, but have been removed by competent institutions or certainly incompetent hooligans, such as those in the case of a diocese at Knin. The right to use the language and letters of the Serb national minority is continuously violated in three municipalities in Vukovar-Srijem County by refusing to transfer the founding rights to municipalities where the right of the Serb national minority to use languages and letters is established. In this way, the registration of schools in minority language and the education model A. Unfortunately, there is still a need for justification for inaction in the light of the unfavourable political situation on the arrival of important dates, change of government, misunderstandings at the Ministry of Science and Education, and so on, but without any difficulty, it has been transferred, the founding rights to the city of Vukovar as of 1.1.2019 in just 21 days from the submission of such a request by the city of Vukovar. It is worrying that year after year, the conclusion is that the town of Vukovar has not reached a degree of understanding and tolerance between members of the Croatian people and the Serb national minority, which is why the Serb national minority does not exercise a number of collective and individual rights. I also use the opportunity to point out what is good and positive in this report, it is certainly a Council for National Minorities which is in 2020. ensure that significant funds are provided for cultural autonomy projects. Although the pandemic years were also concerned with the operation of minority folklore societies due to the epidemic was reduced, delayed or cancelled funds were not reduced but were used to improve their capacity of spatial and other conditions. I also commend the activities of the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities aimed at continuing the implementation of a series of measures aimed at combating discrimination and hate crimes against national minorities, and at removing prejudices by holding expert meetings, seminars, round tables on hate crimes and hate speech, especially for publishing annual data on hate crime cases, and keeping records supported by hate victims. It is commendable that the Protocol on the treatment of hate crime, which is in line with the National Anti-discrimination Plan for the period 2017-2022, is also adopted, but despite the activities carried out, hate speech and rhetoric aimed at members of the national minorities, especially those of Serbia, remain a serious problem. The regulatory framework for the rights of national minorities is high and we can all agree on this, as well as support for cultural autonomy which cannot be challenged. However, it is very often a problem in the self-will of individuals who simply do not want to apply a quality legislative framework or to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities or those who want it, but who are practically designated as state enemies. We must all agree that there are still difficulties in some areas such as the exercise of the right to the official and public use of minority languages and letters, representation among administration and justice employees, access to public media, and education in particular when it comes to minority education or the registration of minority schools as a teaching institution in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. All of this should move us to one more determined solution and certainly a public condemnation of all cases of public encouragement to violence and hatred, hate crime, as well as radical nationalism, historical auditism and anti-human rhetoric in public and political discourse, and to encourage us to prevent the crime of hatred that affects members of national minorities and others from being effectively investigated and properly sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106679	Thank you very much, colleague Jeckov. Bauk, please don't throw my colleague Bauk out of the bench. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of whom colleagues Oreskovic and Pulak will speak. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic, first you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106680	Thank you, distinguished MPs and MPs. Mr Krunoslav Katičić spoke in front of the HDZ Club about the time context in which we are discussing these reports, thinking that we have a report for 2019 and 2020, that in the meantime we also had a pandemic and this now global crisis created by Russia's aggression against Ukraine. But instead of that time context that I will look back on in view of another problem, I would like to talk about a procedural context. In fact, the essence of democracy is the rolling process, and if through these procedures we cannot control the government, that means that there is a serious problem in the system. For some time now, I have been dealing with reports submitted by different state bodies, all 70 of them, so there are reports from independent regulatory agencies, there are reports from the ombudsmans and other ombudsman offices, including reports submitted by the various laws and by the government. These reports were filed under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is by its category and by its hierarchy above the other laws, so we are talking about constitutional law, so I will now read what the law says. It writes this way, at least once a year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits an HS report on the implementation of this constitutional law and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. I'll stop there, this is only half a sentence, so you say government once a year. So it's not just that we're in 2022 today. We are discussing the 2019 Report but the problem is that this report for 2019 was not submitted by the Government in 2020, but only in 2021 with a year of delay. I'm asking why. How is that possible? As it is possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass a law of one year late in breach of that provision, as it is, I agree that it is not sufficiently worked out because there is not a precise date and time limit, it is said once a year, but with a year of delay, and then neither in this Constitutional Law nor in the Rules of Procedure nor in any other provisions, it is not written anywhere within which time the report should be discussed and, for example, the consequences of the non-admission of the report. Of course, the parliamentary majority that is made up of HDZ and of the very national minorities without which there would be no 77 hands, this report will not collapse, but what is it, gentlemen dear, saying about all of you? What does it say about your ability to implement that fundamental, fundamental constitutional obligation of government control, and what kind of state can the government do with such failures? And then we move on. Therefore, the second half of the same sentence says, the Council for National Minorities to HS, or its working body, in which the exercise of the right of national minorities is part, provides a half-yearly report on issues in the Council's section and a quarterly report on the spending of funds provided in the national budget for the needs of national minorities. Where are those six-year-old reports? Where are the quarterly reports? Where are they? I didn't see them here. I haven't seen them on HS's website or anywhere else. So HS doesn't do its job through its parent bodies. When I saw the strong forces of the Croatian government today, actually when I saw in the very announcement that the government had authorized for its representatives in the first place, there are key resolution ministries. It's come to me to ask you, since, gentlemen, you've come in the first place. What do we have to ask you? It would make sense if, given the chapters that this Report has, which are the use of traditional names and symbols, education and education, the right to manifest faith and the establishment of religious communities, so something that falls within the part of the education portfolio, and then access to public disclosure, something that belongs to the section of the Ministry of Culture and Cultural Autonomy, and then the representation of the authorities in administrative and judicial bodies, and then it falls under the work of the Minister of Justice, and then housing, there we have an office, and we have ethically motivated criminal acts, which belong to the delecular Ministry of the Interior, so there are restoring ministries. It would make sense if there were no evidence of these individual chapters as an interested working body, a preliminary debate in the Parliament itself, of the parent bodies. Such a model, such a way of discussing is not even foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and what are we going to do now in these discussions on behalf of the club or individual debates? Everyone will repeat how important national minorities are to us, as we see in certain environments that we continue to have the same problems in which in our decisions, I don't know how many years ago the Constitutional Court has shown and repeat one of these same mantras, and we, as parliamentary representatives, are to regulate the rules of work of ourselves and to say what is the purpose, which is to achieve, not only by debate but also by voting on any report or by making remarks about one part of it relating to a resolute minister, so I am the point and the purpose in all this I don't see. What you would really ask, given that for a long time and in other segments we have seen that HS Rules of Procedure is one semi-creation, we see that we have a problem with replication, with injuries of the Rules of Procedure, with warnings, with one dysfunctional and disorganised system of work, that means that we are well-organised and stateed, that until the next submission of such and then all other reports, let us work out both procedural and procedural provisions and to say what their purpose is at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106681	Thank you. Let's move on, to the next club representative. This is the club of IDS MPs, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Emil Daus. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106682	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The right of minorities and their involvement in society over time has improved, which is certainly to be welcomed, but we believe that there are still open issues that we must not put under the rug, such as growing nationalism, anti-human rhetoric, the exercise of the right to official and public use of minority languages and letters, representation amongst employees in the administration, justice, public media access and education, and therefore somehow I took this part in the debate to try to contribute perhaps, in some ways, even better co-existence, tolerance, bilingualism and respecting differently and differently in the full sense of these words. As a representative from Istria, I can proudly say that we are a bright example and a model of relations with national minorities, from that indigenous, Italian community to all other minorities living in Istria because the relationship with minorities does not end with political acts giving certain groups of people some rights, but we can compare this process with a democracy that is never perfect but that we are constantly building and perfecting it. It's similar with national minorities and it didn't all come overnight to us, it's a long-term process that needs to be perfected, complemented, corrected where it's needed, and it wasn't always simple. The best example may be the co-existence of the Croatian and Italian people in Istria and we can go a few centuries back, and perhaps we can stay only in the last century because unfortunately there was enough material only during the 20th century. And if they came back because some do so regularly in the negative part of the past, who would want to be negative would still find many reasons for misunderstanding and disruptive relations in the present and the future. But we said no, we were able to say that when nationalism erupted, when there was hatred, the lack of understanding of another and different, and in fact, our notes long before us who laid the foundations, as we call the fundamentals of co-existence as we do today, because it was their force of forgiveness then and those who belonged to the Croatian people like my non-net and those who belonged to Italian, such as the ancestors of my friends, acquaintances after all the personal tragedies that had passed in life, and they were serious tragedies that their strength of forgiveness and a view towards the future in which they did not want to see their descendants in the conflict but to build together their healthy future, were the most likely and the strongest foundations for such a healthy relationship and true co-existence on the Istrian peninsula. And a great contribution to preserve and improve this for the last 30 years, and I am particularly proud of it, gives IDS's policy and so because it has always existed and has never been brought into question by a clear, honest and firm political will to treat all citizens equally regardless of nationality. Such a policy has resulted in the creation of a true, multicultural society that can be a model without false modesty and a good part of Europe. And I mean not only the bilingual tables of those at the entrance to places or institutions, I don't only mean schools in Italian that attend and some Croatian children, or those in Croatian who attend some Italian nationalities, which today began to be normal in Istria. I would dare say that the thing is different because since day one, we have been clear about this importance of multiculturalism, diversity and diversity, and not as a danger and celebrate this multiculturality here is the second Tuesday 10th of May of this year in Rovinj after two years of rest, 7. A multicultural festival, so I invite you and you're welcome to it. And as for the work report itself, the IDS club will support it, but with a note of how it is necessary to put it into higher speed because it is a relationship that needs to be constantly built, and when we are at higher speed, he would agree here with some of the predecessors in the debate and in the report himself to come here regularly in the debate or much before he comes. It's really small, come on, I'll be polite, so I won't say a word, but it's not safe that after so much time we're discussing something from 2019. And before the end, let us not forget that our job is to take care of all citizens, which includes certainly members of all minorities. They are not guests in this country and would like to particularly absorb, deserve and have the same rights as all the other citizens of our country. When everyone realizes it or the vast majority still seem to me that someone does, it will be a man’s country. Members of minority communities will not feel better because we have secured rights under the statute or not just because of it, but when they really feel they are free to speak and live their culture. This is what is essential to them as members of the national minorities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106683	Thank you, colleague Daus. The next is the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106684	Dear colleagues and colleagues. 2012 We have marked but not celebrated 10 years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in 2022 we will mark but not celebrate 20 years from the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and in 2027 we should celebrate, but not mark the 25th year of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities because when we look at the situation I am actually not sure whether my colleague Jeckov correctly noticed that we should mark, not celebrate. In fact, it is a rare example in democratic multiparty systems that one group gets 100% in the election, which is in the 12th constituency in this 2020 cycle. It happened. All eight representatives of national minorities who were in the last meeting of HS were elected to this meeting of HS, so citizens are satisfied with them, those who choose are members of national minorities and therefore, if they are satisfied, I don't see why this would be such an important and big topic anymore. Col. Radin is in the nine-term assembly, counterpart Bilek and Kajtazi four, colleague Lekay Prlaskaj three, Janovich is new, and SDSS has since 2003 since this election system of MPs received every three mandates. So, in this one mood, I don't know why we should be marked, not celebrated? Well, at least you have a reason to celebrate. If my party got 100% I'd celebrate. But good, if the citizens are satisfied. Now, this debate, in fact, when we look at it like that, should go through the idyllic atmosphere, and that idyll just got ruined by a colleague named Kekin who was the only one who was talking about real problems. Yes, so the fact is that in public speech they are most apostropheal by negative, when I talk about the apostrophe, I mean a part of the majority of the people, members of the Serb and Roma national minorities. Now, one of the bigger challenges of a resolute government minister not just anyone but Zoran Milanovic in terms of minority rights was to apply the provisions on the equal use of language and letter. And only someone with such a willful stubborn, desire to do something out of conviction as today's President of the Republic could risk, regardless of the special police force that was in Vukovar insisting on something he believes. So I'm so at one point that you're going to condition the entry into Sweden and Finland into NATO by reducing this threshold for the use of equal, equal languages, equal use of language and letters, but it still didn't happen. The fact is that it is the impression that members or representatives of national minorities are relatively well and correctly finding common language both with the government of the left centre and with the government of the right centre. And that might be good because it shows that in Croatia and one and the other mainstream parties take care of the minority rights, where one mainstream party seems to be easier to find common language on these ideological issues, and the other mainstream party finds common language in this so-called. financial issues, but ultimately both are legitimate. There's something I'd like to say to my colleague on the right. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has not been passed by members of national minorities. It was brought by representatives at the Croatian Parliament 2/3 of which most of those who voted I think ethnic Croats. Therefore, when we talk or talk about the rights of national minorities, rather watch us than them, if you have a problem with that. I don't mind, but I don't have a problem, I don't have a problem with it like that, I say it like that. The amendments to the Law on the Rights of National Minorities adopted between other and 2010 along with the amendments to the Constitution were also discussed and there were certain, certain polemics. It seems to me that at the time Vesna Pusic as a representative of the HNS was on this defender that HDZ did not give too much of something that shouldn't be so as to have minority support. We brought together in 2010 so the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, abolished the double right to vote for members of national minorities below 1.5% in this population. The SDP representative club has no objection to the adoption of this report for both 2019 and 2020, but given the circumstances that we are now familiar with, and were then not, which we could unfortunately read about in the black chronicle we will take note of this report. We'll propose to the assembly that he take it into consideration. I think we have also done this for some of the previous reports, and we would like to point out once again our commitment to the implementation of all articles, all letters, interaction signs and pages between the words of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and we are prepared to support its improvement in terms of this increase in the rights of members of the national minorities. I must tell my colleagues that national minorities as a collective have no obligation to the Republic of Croatia, they have individuals. And as for me on May 3rd and May 5th, I'll interrupt that, I have 20 seconds to mark something from history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106685	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. We're going to individual debates now. First individual debate, distinguished representative Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106686	Dearly beloved, here's what I think my colleague Bauk is looking for already potential allies to assemble, perhaps some new government, and he's already wearing a dowry for the national minorities in advance. But let's make a joke aside. In Croatia, 22 national minorities live on the last list of which 20 receive funding from the state budget through their minority councils. Although Croatia is a young democracy can be an example of many older democracies regarding the rights of national minorities. In particular, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities guaranteeing national minorities primarily political representation in units of local, regional self-government as well as at national level. And I think that Croatia can indeed be an example of many countries, especially because until just 20 and 7 years ago, we had a Homeland War where, unfortunately, a good part of a national minority stood up against the creation of a Croatian state. Today, however, this national minority uses all the rights that belong to them as well as other national minorities. And I often say that there is no greater democracy than in Croatia. But I also expect those national minorities and their representatives, counterpart Bauk, their representatives to respect the foundations of this country, those who sit behind me and those who sit in this Croatian Parliament as well as their representatives at local levels. Here yesterday, for example, we had the Day of the City of Vukovar where here are the members of the Serbian national minority on the last census having about 1/3 of the population, we will now see what new results will be, where they have their deputy mayor, where they have their councillors, 6 of them must have been since 19 and none of them were at the wedding ceremony of Croatian defenders in connection with the Day of the City of Vukovar and the Heavenly Protectors of Philip Jacob. I don't expect them to be at the church's mass celebration because it's Catholic worship, but I expect them to appear at the memorial cemetery and that's the least they should do and that's the indicator that you respect the community of the majority you live with and that community that gave you certain rights. This is one of the fundamental examples that everyone in this country has certain rights, but also certain obligations. Unfortunately, local representatives working in the town of Vukovar, who are in the same party in which government deputy Prime Minister Anja Simpraga was never in the memory column, nor were the other council members in the city of Vukovar at any national holiday ceremony, were they able to come and lay a crown on Statehood Day. It's a fact, it's true, and the truth hurts and it needs to hurt because it's sad. Once again, I will repeat, absolutely that national minorities should cultivate their culture, their customs, their identity and that the Croatian state should help national minorities through budget funds, but no specific items such as Novosti so-called can be financed. Popovčev Novosti how we all talk about who little criticises the foundations of this country and ridicules the military regular action of Storm with the titles "Beautiful Our Nice Burns", mocking the Croatian anthem "Oh Haubice Our Dear", etc., is that normal? So tell me, in which state is there a national minority or their institutions financed from the state budget, and then spit on that same state? Take your leave, respect the values of this country and enjoy all the benefits of this country. Nothing more is expected of you, nothing less, we all have our rights, but we all have our obligations including members of the national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106687	Thank you very much. You had one replica in 90% of your exposure, the last few sentences caused a series of replicas. Let's go in turn, dear colleague Bauk, here's your first line of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106688	I'm naive to the first sentence, it's not a question of dowry, so we would support the rights of the opposition, it's not a problem. So basically, in many of what you have mentioned falls into fundamental human rights and freedom to freedom of expression and freedom of thought and only to whom politicians are basically fit by their voters. Therefore, if they were to do something about this failure that you mentioned that does not correspond to their voters, they would punish them in the elections, and as soon as they do not do so, it is obvious that there are certain reasons why their voters do not punish them. As long as the laws of the Republic of Croatia are respected and do not question the territorial integrity of integrity and independence until then it falls into political action and freedom of expression, which is exactly what distinguishes us from non-democratic regimes. And as for celebrating the holidays, I look forward to our gathering on June 22nd in Bezovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106689	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106690	Dear colleague Bauk, I cannot agree with you in any way that a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot clearly and aloud say that the Storm was a military legitimate action. I can't agree with that. You as a lawyer You were not, okay, the Minister of Administration should know, and you know better than me the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the preamble of a constitution which clearly and loudly states that, among other things, Croatia was created in liberating legitimate military redistributive actions and today you have a member of the government who cannot say it clearly and aloud, nothing more than that. [[I'm not a lawyer.]] [[Intruding Voter: Mathematician, Mathematician]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106691	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Jeckov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106692	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavliček, I think the public should remind the public that it is 2010. was this historic encounter between Ivo Josipovic and Boris Tadic when the list of all local SDSS officials went to the memorial cemetery, of course you don't need to believe me, the pictures speak about it. As far as the traitors' news is concerned, I only hope that you do not think that traitors are, say, Boro Dežulović, Marinko Culic, Tamara Opačić, otherwise journalists of Novosti who, as far as last night, received awards imagine the Croatian Journalist Society. I'm really wondering, you're really a brave man when against yourself the seventh force in that way you want to point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106693	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106694	You didn't listen to me, I never said that the traitors' news, I didn't say, listen freely again what I said, but I said that these same news denies the foundations of the Croatian state. I stand loud and clear behind it, and I will stand. And as for what you said in the first part, it's true that the two presidents found themselves, that I think they went to Varivod and Ovcar to bow to both victims innocent, but it's also true that after that, because apparently your local officials were forced to appear there none of yours were ever again on the Ovcara but on the State of the Republic of Croatia, the state where you live. Here are colleagues from the left spectrum, I think they'd like to tell you first that it's minimum that on Statehood Day at least your local representatives show up and along with the other councilmen no matter what options they come from, they're getting married.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106695	Time. My colleague Jeckov, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106696	The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. In 238, a colleague, apparently, has a special kind of standard that we national minorities should use and work, or he would have to prescribe, that we should behave in certain situations and which events to which we should go and to which we do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106697	My colleague Jeckov, you are aware, you cannot answer, this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you are aware that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, that in fact through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this institution used the opportunity to replicate, so you have a reminder. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106698	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavliček, we all know very well that what is said in the people to argue is necessary two. For the fact that Serbian representatives did not come to celebrate Croatian holidays, Croatian dates did you ever wonder whether the Croatian majority might be responsible for it. Have you asked yourself, perhaps, that in Vukovar, there is still no respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 with a convenient formulation that is thus formally confirmed on the Council of Vukovar each year. 27 years after the Homeland War, is it not time for us to go into true reconciliation and co-existence? With constant and continuous accusations I don't think we'll get far, of course. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106699	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106700	Here's just a colleague of Jeck's to answer before that, I think you've been in politics long enough to know for yourself what's the order, which is not the order and which events you should be coming to and which ones you don't. Secondly, respected colleagues of Raukar Gamulin, you best still blame the majority Croatian people for what they did in '91. It happened in Vukovar, so I think it would be such a highlight for you at the end of it all. Unlike you, I live in Vukovar, you know, I wake up there every morning, so I go to coffee, and I talk to people, and then the weddings go by, and three fingers with Serbian flags get up, so they swear on our mother's mouth, you know, I live there, you don't live there. And don't make me smart and accuse and blame the majority of the Croatian people. You don't even know what the state of the city is. The census isn't correct. A representative of the Serb community knows that, and there are far fewer than 3.78%. They know 300 missing people weren't on that list, and they didn't die, where they are. That they entered the list Serbian national minority statistics would fall [[Intruder: Time.]] Don't get smart about what you don't know. [[Intruder: colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106701	Let's move on, the next replica, the esteemed representative, Vucimilovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106702	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with you that many and more developed democracies than ours could be seen in respecting both diversity and minority rights. We have installed in our legislation a lot of things, we have also listed the Charter of Human Rights, which is an integral part of the Lisbon Treaty, meaning from that European to the national and even lower level I think it is at a very high level. And let's turn to the future, I think we're all on this trail, but how many separate programs, separate kindergartens, separate schools help us in that sometimes in the future we don't really have co-existence, but together life in the common homeland of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106703	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106704	Here, thank you. ... the pedagogical standard, members of national minorities, have the possibility of education in their language and letter A, B and C models. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Personally, I believe that this complete separation A model applied in the area of, say, Vukovar, Eastern Slavonia may be the worst model for the future of the city I live in. I think it's pretty bad because kids are separated from kindergartens through elementary schools to high schools and live in the same city in parallel worlds and it's not good for the future of the city. I think the C model would be much more acceptable for the future of the city of Vukovar. But what's there is. The model is primarily insisted by political representatives of the Serb community in the city and surrounding places. It is their legitimate right, and will it ultimately reflect primarily the damage to their community that time will show because primarily their students, students then go to study in Novi Sad, Belgrade, and do not go to Zagreb and then stay there, but it is their decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106705	And now I'm gonna say again we could have a mul Intercultural School in Vukovar, but we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106706	We could've had Yugoslavia, but we don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106707	Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106708	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Pavliček, does not say in the Constitution that Croatia must be loved, does not say, and there is no salamit of intent that would be said in BiH. I, I think it's an absurd idea to insist on it and that someone's patriotism is measured and checked and that it's actually kind of like a yes if you don't have positive feelings, if you don't like Croatia then you're a potential one that I don't know the rebel, traitor or whatever. And yes, and especially to measure it by how many times someone was or wasn't on some markings, but I mean, let's just say, the predecessor of Mrs. Simprage, Boris Milosevic was in Knin. So, for me, it's an absolute giving of legitimacy to the military redistributive operation of the Storm. So he was there even though his family member, the civilian victim of war, was killed in the Storm. So, not as much as There must be evidence, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106709	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106710	No, I agree with you, all you have to do is respect the state in which you live. And I've lived for a while during the persecution in Germany and you respect that country, respect their holidays, so especially if you're a public figure in politics, then you should respect those holidays as in this country. So no, it would be unfortunate if one representative of a political option saw it as a proof that he loved the state if he went to Statehood Day to lay a crown. I don't think I have it here, that it's absolutely pointless to discuss it, that somehow it's in itself that you're going to go out on that day and bow down to the origin of that country, nothing more, nothing less. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106711	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Honorable Agent Radin, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106712	Three well-intentioned, the first is that I won't try to change what I said before your attitudes because I said after a certain age there's no point anymore. The second is that we are now in 1972. If we measure World War II, 1972. It's already been since 1971, just so you know the relationship is that about co-existence. The third thing I'm saying is that keeping in mind all these things is actually the time to really start, to start integrating, to start integrating because we already are in Istria.../Laughter/... to start integrating because simple, and around multilingual schools we have done so, we have done one-lingual, then the Croats go to Italian, and the Italians go to Croatian, so we have made multilingual schools. [[You said so well.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106713	Thank you, great, thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106714	I agree with you. I also think it's time for you to integrate into society and not assimilate but integrate, here I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106715	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, we have a request for a break. Here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106716	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President, so I didn't want to put you in a position to give me a heads-up, and I'd like a little on behalf of the SDP Club to look back at the presentation of colleagues, because he's opened up quite an interesting, sensitive topic that deserves a little broader reflection on the replica, from the replica. So, your situation is next, HDZ is in the coalition, they're listening to us here, they've had an exhibition on behalf of the club, and they're not involved in the debate. One part of the opposition is critical of members or members of national minorities in power, and the other part of the opposition explains the first part of the opposition that what they say is not quite so. Now that's an ideal position, an ideal position for HDZ, so, so that's this situation. But I will repeat, or human rights and freedoms, the right to freedom and expression of thought and the right to freedom of speech, and other kinds of expressions of political attitude do not require daily emphasis on loyalty to something that is an imaginary state. What the real state is is the constitution and the laws and to that every official, every official swears. I do not think that anyone who has received HS's trust in the post of Deputy Prime Minister should no longer give anything else that Prime Minister Plenkovic otherwise introduced into the political language as an interpretative statement, should not, but may agree with you in one part. A person who doesn't confirm the legitimacy of the Storm in the way you speak can't be vice president of the SDP government because those on the right would break us down because of it, but may be vice president of the HDZ government, there are no restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106717	Comrade Bauk, your break has been granted, but on the basis of Article. 293.b. We'll move on with the session. We're moving on with individual debates, next up is a colleague of Raukar Gamulin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106718	Thank you. Your Honor, first of all. 37. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is prescribed that the government submits at least once a year a report on the implementation of the constitutional law and on the spending of funds for the needs of national minorities. We have a report from '19, '20, '21. not in sight, therefore, and again and again and in this case do not comply with the legal provisions on the obligation to submit reports. Also in 2020, no report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget has been adopted, and as well as a summary report on the implementation of operational programmes for national minorities, as well as all other reports, all this is late, does not come, the laws are broken, but most of this is not disturbing. One piece of information says a lot about the position of the Serb national minority. Namely, by order of the Art. Article 9(2) of the Constitutional Law provides that members of national minorities are entitled to be printed and filled in both the language and the letter to which they are served. For example, the Italian national minority on the 2011 census, we don't have the '21s yet. about 17 thousand, I.D. 2019. 2767, 2020. 2585, and the Serb national minority that counts on the 2011 census 185 thousand, I.D. 2019. 85, and 2020. 93. These figures also clearly reflect the fear and discomfort that the Serb national minority in Croatia is living with, but according to the report and the lack of information on its rights. The information would certainly be better, as well as the affirmation of all national minorities if there were not only 1,054% on public television... and '19. 1,079% of the programme, dedicated to national minorities in 2020. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no editorial for national minorities although it is a public service obligation, some minority languages are unevenly represented in these programmes, the obligation to process national minorities in programmes for the general population prescribed by art. The 47th contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been completely ignored. The aim of the provision should be to attract a wider range of audiences through selecting or more attractive terms or broadcasting minority content in the reception process. At the end of 2020. The Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers recommends that Croatia should do more in learning minority language and promoting minority communities' language in education of public administration and media, and has warned of the lack of Cyrillic letter in municipalities and signs that mark the names of violence, which is missing in most cases. And that's how we've been at war with Cyrillic for 27 years. After the end of the Homeland War. Cyrillic is a Serbian letter, but we forget that it is also a Croatian letter. In history, the Croats used three letters, a verb, a Latin and a Cyrillic. In the Middle Ages, they were the only ones who used all those three letters. The first book printed in Croatia is Misal by the law of the Roman court printed with a verb in 483, only 29. Later, the first Croatian prayerist was printed on Cyrillic already 512, with Polish Cyrillic. Cyrillic is part of Serbian but also Croatian identity. Academic Josip Bratulic said in an interview that he had to explain to his students that Cyrillic and Croatian letters were. This should also make Croatia's citizens aware of the academics. It is unacceptable to boast, in a very narrow and foolish way, at the lack of knowledge of the Cyrillic letter as a measure of its Croatianism, by celebrating the new Minister Filipovic, a doctor of science who, according to his nominal education, should be an intellectual, and an intellectual is completely inappropriate to boast of ignorance. HAZU, to say the same in 2013, published the print of a Cyrillic prayerist from 512 and organized an international scientific gathering on the subject of Cyrillic Heritage. So it's time to finally stop fighting the Cyrillic, to accept it, so it's easier to get to the full application of constitutional law and Cyrillic to be something that connects us, not that separates us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106719	Thank you. Here's the tile up in the last seconds. Let's go in turn, first replica of my colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106720	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President of the Assembly. Comrade Raukar Gamulin, I must supplement you, this one with three letters that you Croats have listed used another historical one, which is an arbica, so in Bosnia, it was also used as an arbic. In other words, we would have more materials to expand that, and it's actually great that we should do in some way to say a happier language policy and at all understanding of language should actually go on, to that our great wealth that our language can be transcribed into even four letters of this, and actually get away from here, so there's a small one, but this might be someone's informative supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106721	It's a little dyspression. The answer to this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106722	Thank you, colleague, man learns while he's alive or forgets while he's alive and something he learned in high school. Yes, I deeply believe, and I believe that many will agree with me here that culture is something that needs to be combined, letters are something that should bring us together, letters are wealth, literature is wealth and certainly 27 years old. After the war, it's time to start doing that and affirm it primarily. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106723	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106724	I have to get up to protect Minister Filipovic, if he didn't teach the Cyrillic at school then it's more of a problem of the Croatian school system, not of him who doesn't know, I think. And as for the argument that Cyrillic is Croatian, it is not the subject of this report because it is Croatian, but because it is Serbian, and bilingual inscriptions in cities and municipalities, regardless of what language, city and municipality are working towards one of the documents of the Council of Europe does not serve the inhabitants of these cities to understand what is written there because among other things, Croatian and Serbian are very similar languages, not to say the same, but to those who come to these cities outside know that there is also someone other than members of the majority people living there and opposing bilingualism in these cities in fact opposing something that President Tudjman has spent, which is a peaceful reintegration and the fact that there is, unlike some other parts of the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106725	Thank you, time, colleague Bauk, so at least you always stick to the weather, what's the matter with you now? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106726	So, a lot of people didn't teach Cyrillic, which I think simply, I mean, I feel sorry for them because I say... When we were visiting Russia, I could read everything and so, and Mr Filipovic was very boastful of his ignorance, so I can't agree with you. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] Furthermore, that a Cyrillic as well as a Croatian letter is not the subject of this report, exactly, but the subject of this report is, is a Cyrillic and I think it is necessary to remind again that we cannot fight against the language and I am deeply convinced of it and your arguments are as always very skillful, but this time unconvincing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106727	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic, in what way is the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. - Mrs. Crescent. The honourable representative has been injured by an article. 238, repeatedly calling Minister Filipovic that he does not know the Cyrillic, and it should be the only shame for him to embarrass him that he does not know the Cyrillic, so at least two million people living in Croatia who do not know the Cyrillic, but you deliberately impute it to demean a man who is not here and you are talking about something that has absolutely nothing to do with the subject that is being discussed other than the tendency to demean the newly elected minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106729	This is how you have now used this, this institution injures the Rules of Procedure to replicate your colleague Urshi, and by warning that as this has nothing to do with the subject, but a Cyrillic letter or use, the right of national minorities to use their language and letters is the subject of, among other things, implementation and this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Now there was this one more freer remark that we often look at ourselves here in a non-competition, it's not forbidden, so I have to give you a heads-up. Please. [[Upadica Ivanovic: Thank you very much]] Let's move on, next replica, colleague Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106730	Dear MPs, I volunteered for the replica before you said the last two sentences so that you would actually just repeat what you said, the sooner we stop fighting the Cyrillic, the better we'll get, the sooner integration will be better. In some parts of Croatia, no national minority should be interpreted as who it is and what it is, people are simply burdened with it. However, in areas where there was war, where war conflicts were, of course that gap exists, and the sooner that gap is resolved, the more quality life will be ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106731	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106732	I thank my colleague Pavić. Yeah, it's actually a message from everything I wanted to say about the Cyrillic that the war with the letter won't do us any good. I am also taking the opportunity to repeat that the new Minister Filipovic is not guilty because he does not know the Cyrillic but because he boasts of his ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106733	Let's move on, next replica of my colleague Kajtazi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106734	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you and you touched me when you said the emissions of national minorities. Of course, I don't agree with the national show Prism with terms and content because the multinational programme of the Prism is essentially only followed by national minorities, and essentially events and cultural events should be for the majority population what they represent exactly national minorities and so that national minorities should have their own certain redactions so that they can show the majority population their cultural events, their cultural manifestations and all that they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106735	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106736	So I thank my colleague Kajtazi, that it really is that there is neither a nor an editorial for national minorities, but it is not respected, I will repeat the article. The 47th Treaty of the Republic of Croatia and this article have been completely ignored and what indeed for reintegration, for co-existence, for common life, for mutual respect is necessary for the national television programmes for the general population to be a much more present topic of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106737	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106738	Thank you very much. Of course they've relied on cultural topics, that's understandable in itself. What you said that academic Bratulić had to explain is that, I totally understand why he had to explain when he made up the Alejo verb in Istria is that I don't know how long I don't know, in a place where, I mean really no verb, it's one project that he invented, but I don't understand why we rely so much on, on Cyrillic whether she is and Croatian, whether she is, and that's not a Croatian Cyrillic would have a place because it's a letter of a national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106739	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106740	I completely agree with my esteemed colleague, Radin. However, I think it is important to remind the citizens of this country that Cyrillic and Croatian letters are. Simply to stop fighting it, to stop this animosity that, somewhere still exists around the Cyrillic, which in public writings, in books, in libraries, etc. I think here's what I'm gonna do again. We need to stop fighting the Cyrillic. I believe that if the Cyrillic were to be reintegrationd into Croatian society, in Croatian culture in such a way that these gaps that unfortunately still exist among certain groups, national minorities, etc. I'm sure they'd be better able to overcome each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106741	And this was all about replicas. Comrade Glavasevic, you have the honour of closing this set of individual debates, yours is the last, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106742	"Zucker Komt Zuletz" some might say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106743	I'm a genau.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106744	At the symbolic or declarative level of national minorities in Croatia have a very high level of rights, secured political representation and at least on paper in most cases a high degree of respect and enforcement of the law we are discussing today, but at lower levels than that symbolic and declarative it is not simply the case. The best proof of that can be seen regularly right here in this assembly. Thus, MPs and representatives of the Serb minority regularly receive requests from some colleagues and colleagues to prove their loyalty to Croatia, and those citizens and citizens representing themselves are painted as unfairly hidden rebels who loathe Croatia and are probably just waiting for the opportunity to take arms and wage war against it. It's incredibly unfair and deeply undemocratic, that's what I think we should say and we should speak right here in this assembly. Let's just take two examples. Boris Milosevic was a minor when the war began, his father was a Croatian defender, and his grandmother was killed in the Storm and was a civilian victim of war. Anya Shimpraga, who sits here today, is 3 years old. I'm younger than I am. As a child, she experienced a destiny that no child should experience, refugee, and loss of home and loss of childhood. Both Anja and Boris work with their political engagements not only for the sake of the Serb minority but also for the whole of Croatia, and despite taking oaths both as representatives and as members of the government and despite their lives and fates they experience incredible insults and questioning of their patriotism, constantly. It's just the tip of the iceberg, of course. If people like Anja or Boris are experiencing such humiliations, you can only imagine what other members and members of national minorities are experiencing, not only Serbian but also others. We could hear about it both from fellow Radin and from fellow Keatazi in their discussions. Croatia has a problem because it is not only when the war ended in communities like Vukovar that worked to face the past because very often the mainstream politicians, and not only those from the margin of political spectrum, regularly rode on nationalist rhetoric and hate speech directed against Serbs, Roma and other minorities. That's why over 30 years since the start of the war, no Serbian or Serbian are and will be acceptable to some of our colleagues and colleagues, but they are there with those like me who are not good enough Croatians because we are talking about this, because we are stopping to defend the civilian victims of the war, because we understand that war is evil and we say this, we are their ideal internal enemies. Now, and this problem of searching for internal enemies, this problem of conflicts like this is not only dealt with by law, it is solved by dialogue within the community and longtime hired work from all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106745	Thank you, too. You have one replica, colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106746	You noticed the question of facing the past and you mentioned the environment I came from. Do you remember a colleague named Glavasevic who was the alleged, alleged reason for setting up a tent outside your former ministry? Your statement saying there's no PTSD somewhere that he's got it somewhere. So there was, therefore, not only that not one group of politicians would not be acceptable or "there is no good Serb". There is no good nor a Croat if not by their measure, there was not enough months in Fred Matic's camp or generally known what happened to your family, they kept adding three letters to my name, hence it is not easy sometimes to be a Croat with such, let alone a Serb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106747	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106748	Thank you. Yeah, I don't really know what else to add to what you said because it's a fact and that's what I refer to. The problem is that there are not enough good Croats for some and that patriotism is measured all the time, and as painful as it is for some democracy, democracy, democratic society doesn't ask anyone to love the state they live in, it doesn't ask anyone to go on their anniversary, if they don't want to, or to have any positive feelings for her. As far as I'm concerned, I mean, it's gonna sound rough, but I can hate it for the state. What matters to the state is they don't take weapons, they don't try to bring down constitutional law, period. That's what some people have to learn to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106749	You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on. A colleague, Sandra Bencic, will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club final. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106750	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers, respected representatives of institutions. I will talk about one more aspect, especially with regard to the Roma national minority, and it also concerns what is the subject of this report, which is actually the living conditions and quality of the lives of our national minorities and where the needs for concrete investments, concrete investments, and what I think should be defined by the national budget and the NPOO and eu funds, are not small but in concrete infrastructure projects. 2018 A comprehensive multi-metodological survey of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, covering 1550 Roma households in the country and nearly 300 representatives of all relevant institutions, civil society organisations and local activists, has been published. This research has shown in the area of education, which to some extent can provide for such social mobility and is, in fact, crucial for social mobility and Roma, but also for all others, it has shown that the situation cannot be considered good even though there has been progress in the last 10 years, so some progress is seen. My colleagues and colleagues, only a third of Roma children attend preschool education. Preschool education and education which is a key prerequisite behind socialization and the development of skills at an early age for all children in Croatia. For Roma children, it is especially important because some of them do not speak Croatian and just preschool education is essential for learning Croatian language and later learning in the education system. Almost all children, therefore, have attended primary school between 7 and 14 years of age, which is a significant improvement compared to previous periods, but there are also certain problems still in place every fifth Roma child attends a class exclusively attended by Roma, which, according to an earlier European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Orshosh and others against Croatia, can be considered discrimination or concrete segregation. Looking at the data regarding high school attendance, however, the situation is getting worse, only 31% of young people aged 15 to 18 are attending high school, although the Ministry of Science and Education and individual units of local and regional self-government grant scholarships for secondary school education, and I can say that for this school year, the City of Zagreb has awarded a total of 86 scholarships to the Roma national minority, 72 for secondary school students and 14 scholarships for students, with a secondary scholarship of 2,700 kuna, while the scholarship for students is 3,800 kuna per month. When we compare this to a state scholarship for college, I have to say, it's 1,300 kuna, so it's still some financial support that allows students to live on their own. I would also like to say that the inability to employ Roma is, therefore, when one comes to the labour market because of discrimination most often, but also the low degree of education causes more than half of Roma households to have a monthly income of less than 3,000 kunas, households, not persons. The average income of Roma households is only 2.670 kuna or 611 kuna per household member, people, 611 kuna per household member. 80% of households cannot afford any unexpected cost, such as buying a new refrigerator, and in 48% of Roma households at least one member went to bed hungry in the week before the survey. So 73% of Roma households tested had no sewers, half had no toilets in the house or apartment as well as a bathroom with bath or shower, and 43% had no water obtained from the plumbing. Claims that today every tailor of his destiny may be valid for those layers of society that have enough social and economic capital, to enjoy the benefits of freedom of choice, but in the case of particularly deprivileged groups long-term discrimination in this society, it is a delusion that leads us to a false lead and makes it impossible for us to face these problems truly as a society and to invest where we need to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106751	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Zeljko Pavić will speak finally on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106752	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd just like to go back a little bit on the subject, but this is about whether the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia is being implemented or not. I believe that we can all conclude that this law is fully implemented, and the problems that are happening to us on the ground these problems should be solved by their representatives, they have been given a mandate, they have been given a mandate and they need to talk to them and draw attention to the problems of these minorities in Croatia. How many times did our SDP colleague Maric talk about Roma problems in Međimurje? Not once, she spoke many times. Why? Because they have problems with the Roma and are trying to solve these problems together with minority representatives in Međimurje. So if every representative of these minorities starts doing their job the right way then we won't have any problems or problems will be smaller. It is not enough just to take the funds out of the budget and then finger in ear and sing further, but these funds should be spent purposely in the way needed for these minorities. It will be easier to integrate Roma in Međimurje into the community if they graduate from schools, if it will be more frequent to continue, if they will later be enrolled in high schools, universities etc., etc. We have worse examples of your colleagues from your community who are employed in high places in Međimurje who are doing excellent work, but they have been educated. However, if absolutely nothing is done, then we cannot expect that regardless of the funds spent or whatever the state is doing, something will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106753	Thank you. Let's move on, my colleague Furio Radin will speak finally on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106754	As you can usually say, I didn't mean to speak, but she encouraged me now that he's gone like the Bull, now there's no more, the question of love. You see how interesting that is. The first question of love is always the people here who have endured with us all this time, because they haven't spoken, they just listened to us, so I thank them. And now, what's said before, what Sinisha said before, love for a certain state must or should not have. I go further, you don't have to have love for any country in the world, you don't have to have love for any people in the world. There's a saying in Italian.../Speaker speaks Italian./... so people, people, people are individuals. I've got this friend, I've got you as a friend, I've got Big as a friend, Emile as a friend, I'm not gonna name Sandra right now, it's love for people, love for the people, love for the states is one thing I don't feel as bad as you do, Bohannon, I've called you before Bohannon. And I'll end up with that, you know that I belong to that group that's always trying to get the name "God and Croats" off, right? Well, let me show you that we can already go to better things, for example. If we hear "God and Croats" we'll be better off. "God and Croats" is better than "God and Croats" is yes, and certain Croats or certain Croats are even better. Have friends in people, and countries and nations as they say will pass as all countries have passed and all the nations in the history of many countries and many peoples in history have so far become new. People are important, and countries I said not only do you not have to, you have to respect the state, not only do you not have to love your country but no country, but it's nice to have people you love, and that's the only message I have to give.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106755	Thank you. Finally, we came to the assembly to talk about love. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives will finally speak to counterpart Veljko Kajtazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106756	Thank you. I didn't mean to pick up, but final colleague Sandra and colleagues Pavic, colleagues of Pavic, touched me to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106757	Please, colleagues, I know you're in love now, but don't be jealous now, you'll have to do this later, let's just let this one end this, just a little more peace and patience, thank you. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106758	I'm glad that colleague Sandra mentioned the research that the Office of Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is doing right now, and I remember from the very beginning that Sandra was at the presentation and then at the moment when they were trying to do this research without members of the Roma community. All these years since the Roma community's been here, they've been here until 11 years ago. They were invisible, today is a very different situation, today the Roma are visible and that is what is very important and I am taking the opportunity to thank this very government. From 2016 to 2016 headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the Roma are visible. We've done a lot of things, not enough, but a lot's been done. You don't need to stop at that, but also what you mentioned in the research itself is true, but one part of the guilt is exactly JLS. Romi has several strategic documents since 2003. when we had both a national programme and a decade and a national strategy, and now we have a national plan that was adopted last year that will last from 2021 to 2027. That's not enough if JLS don't come up with their action plans. In particular, in Međimurje no one, no city, no municipality has adopted action plans, and now I wonder how they will help the Roma community, and only in Međimurje I have about 14 large settlements, settlements are so large that they may be bigger than our municipalities, settlements more than 2,500 inhabitants, settlements that do not have any infrastructure, but that we are not talking about cultural content. I'm just wondering all this time that the JLS have been doing all these years. I see I've got a little bit, so I'll cut it short. Given that we just had a very important meeting today, we see back a few years in all the schools in Međimurje, classes are segregated. I don't know which way or why they allow it. The children of the majority are being printed, changing residences just to be out of town. On the other hand today I have a meeting with representatives of the Međimurje County where they want to build an area school within the Roma settlement. I wonder how the question of the Roma community will be dealt with. We must all stand on it, we must not allow such a thing because all the time in Međimurje County is called the whole Roma community, for everything that's going on up there, it doesn't matter if it was made by a member of the Roma community from one village or another, but it's called the whole Roma community, and you can imagine then what it is like for these other Roma who are in other counties. Why is it I don't know, and I've never heard of positive examples being shown in some way. You have very good examples, you mentioned earlier that there are honest Roma in the County of Međimurje, there are all honest only once we haven't given them a chance, we never gave them a chance to show not one part, but all the honest Roma are there, to survive such a great nation as the Roma community is very difficult. We have in public institutions, today the mayor tells me here we hired a driver today and we hired a nurse, is that, is that our result, and there are Roma more than 70, why do they not have a JLS permanent member of the Roma community, and there we have more than 12 thousand Roma, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106759	Thank you, fellow Kajtazi. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Pavić, in what way is the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106760	Art. 238, Mr. Kajtazi said what I didn't say, at least I hope I didn't say there were places in Međimurje honest Roma, I thought I said there were educated Roma, educated Roma who had been excluded from the community, and other than that if you had places or settlements of 2500 inhabitants, so I believe that people can come to the city council or the municipal council and there have some influence there with 2500 votes... In such a small place, you have not one there of this president, you have two, three. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106761	Comrade Pavić ok, this was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure but a classic replica, you have a warning and we have exhausted all the registered speakers on behalf of the clubs. Do you want to see Mrs. Crescent? Deputy Prime Minister take the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106762	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, at the end of today's debate, I would like to thank you for your constructive dialogue and suggestions, however this may have seemed to you as we started from the beginning. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is a key act of protection and promotion of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia and as such deserves a serious argument aimed at strengthening the protection of the fundamental rights of all minority communities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2020-2020 programme found that the government would continue to promote the culture of tolerance, consistently implement the rule of law and the rights of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law. The adoption of operational programmes of national minorities for the period 2020, 2021-2024, operationalised the government's focus towards full achievement of all the rights laid down by the constitutional law. I expect that we will soon, and as colleagues announce, we can also believe it in this place to discuss and a report on the implementation of the constitutional law for 2021 which we have also heard a lot about here since the document is in the final alignment phase with the relevant authorities. I point out that this year we mark 20 years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I believe that we will in a decent way mark this anniversary that is not only important for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia but also for the overall demographic development of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, since you've all been taking the most of it today and your personal, personal views however you allow me to say something. In recent days, hate spills, impatience sent to me through social networks, portals and everything else that makes up the media space in our country I have tried to understand and I must admit that I understand anyone who wrote anything and in any way. It's human to sin, human to not know, human not to know, but it's human to continue to work. And I want to tell you here from this pay phone how I've worked so far and acted like a man so that it will continue to be and that I am the vice president of the government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I feel once again that there is faith for our country, and I stress our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106763	Thank you, stay a little longer, you have two replicas, first colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106764	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here's even though you've now had this last exhibit of yours, perhaps in one other direction, of course, that I don't want to resort to these debates that talked more about love or not love than not to say hate or anything, and that's why I didn't want to get involved until now. However, what I would like to point out, and I couldn't replicate to Mr. Kajtazi, so since you present you in your full national minority presentation, as you comment on the debates of the MPs here specifically from Zagreb from the green-left bloc, from We can which advocate greater rights specifically of the Roma national minority. As Minister, I am very well-acquainted here and I agree that local communities do nothing or almost very little, and Tomašević has just abolished funds for Roma kindergarten. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106765	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106766	I thank the distinguished MPs, so every club here today could speak its mind. It is not up to me to comment individually now, it is up to me to implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's policy and that when it comes to the rights of national minorities to be as strong as possible, as best as possible and that, at the next presentation of the Implementation Report, the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we will all be more satisfied with the results that we may be presenting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106767	Thank you and another replica of my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106768	Thank you. First, my fellow Shimpraga just to say that I'm sorry for the hate speech you must be experiencing these days, but I know that your values as well as our values go in the other direction, which is to build, build a society of communities not only tolerances to tolerate each other is not enough but to really respect each other and live together. But here's when my colleague Murganic said something like this after Mr. Keatazi's speech, so I think you, do you understand anything about integration? Roma kindergarten, Roma schools, so we need joint kindergartens and joint schools, not segregated kindergartens and segregated schools. We are finally in Zagreb after 20 years of your milking this city and you have not invested in kindergartens, you have finally allocated some money for kindergartens, 4 will be built this year, 8 more next, by 2025 more than 20 new kindergartens, primary schools will be built and two high school. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You haven't done anything for 10 years. And you're talking about segregation instead of encouraging integration. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106769	Comrade Bencic, thank you. And now we've got a breach from my colleague Murganic's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106770	Look, I can't be offended by one Sandra Bencic, her speech style is whether I have the brains or not. In my work on this particular population, I've had a lot of experience in work and results, so you talk to those I've been taking, helping and working with, local self-government units are moving burdens to the state because that's the case. It's easier for you. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you've abolished the funds. for all associations even for Roma associations. [[Intruder: Coliother Murganić, please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106771	So you've exceeded your time, you haven't called in the article, you've used the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, and I have to tell you a reminder that I'm sorry that I thought we'd end up in this, in this beautiful atmosphere where we were up until a few minutes ago, love, respect, tolerance... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bencic. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106772	Thank you. Injury of Article 238 by my colleague Murganic. So, fellow Members Murganic, I will again appeal to not only you, but HDZ if you stand behind your national strategies and plans then read the meaning of certain concepts. What integration means, what it means to fight segregation and ask the European Commission why it no longer gives money to infrastructure separate The settlements you built neatly and why not give money [[Intruder Voter: Time.]] for separate kindergartens and schools [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Because segregation is no longer allowed. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106773	My colleagues Bencic and you've exceeded your time, okay, you've called on the article, but the same thing you've used to break the rules of procedure as a replica you have a warning. And now you fellow Shimpraga seem to have a reply to the replica, the replica of my colleague Bencic, right, if you still remember what the replica was before these injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106774	Thank you. I'm just going to take the opportunity to finally tell everyone that those at the local, regional level of the state, each of us, of course, will make the most of it and try to achieve all the minority rights that are laid down under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106775	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you to all the representatives of the ministry, the government. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 4:13 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:45 A.M.]] We move on to as we decided this morning to a united debate on the following two points, which are: - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. for the purposes of national minorities and the debate on: - The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the expenditure on funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 for the needs of national minorities. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Foundation of Art. 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Anya Shimprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106778	I thank the vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Article. The 37th century 3. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities shall regularly submit to HS a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. During 2019 and 2020 The Government of the Republic of Croatia, through competent authorities in all areas, has carried out activities that have contributed to further improving the protection of the rights of members of national minorities. As a party to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit periodic reports to the Council of Europe on the legislative and other measures taken to comply with the principles set out in that Convention. At the meeting held on 28 March 2019 The government adopted the 5th report on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities for the period from 2014 to 2018 and the same in May 2019. addressed to the Council of Europe for consideration. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee for the Framework Conventions for the Protection of National Minorities on 8 October 2020 adopted its 5th opinion on the implementation of the Framework Convention by the Republic of Croatia, which implemented the evaluation of the 5th report by the Republic of Croatia to that Advisory Committee in May 2019. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. a statement was made on the 5th report of the Advisory Committee and was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 17 December 2020. In order to further improve the existing level of protection of the rights of national minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted operational programmes of national minorities in December 2020 for the period 2021-2024, which Further positive developments have been achieved in areas where a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is regularly achieved. The co-financing of numerous associations and institutions of national minorities through the Ministry of Culture and the Council for National Minorities has been continued in the area of achieving the cultural autonomy of national minorities. In the field of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been achieved and students are successfully trained according to existing models of education, such as A, B and C. Furthermore, co-financed procurement of didactic funds, professional training of educators, teachers, professional associates, the making of exams for graduation and the implementation of graduates in the languages of national minorities, the co-financed procurement of teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, the salaries of teachers and advisors in the language and letter of national minorities, scholarships, accommodations and others have been financed. The Ministry of Science and Education during 2020 made decisions on various curriculas for teaching courses Hungarian language and literature for primary and secondary school model A and model C, for the teaching subject of Slovak language and culture in primary and secondary schools model C and for the teaching subject language and culture of the Roma national minority in primary and secondary schools model C. Furthermore, in representative and executive bodies at national and local level, prescribed representation in HS and representative and executive bodies of the local and regional (regional) administrations was achieved. In the area of the exercise of the rights of national minorities to access the media through the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the Agency for Electronic Media shall be regularly each year in the context of a public tender to media service providers in the category of national minority in the Republic of Croatia. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in collaboration with the Council for National Minorities each year organises a seminar on the role of the media in democratisation of Croatian society. On 1 March 2019, HS adopted the Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, which fully regulates elections for councils and representatives of national minorities. The election for councils and representatives was held on 5 May 2019 and 19 May, a total of 352 councils and 108 representatives of national minorities were elected in the elections. In the Register of Councils of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities by the end of 2020, A total of 102 representatives of national minorities, 342 councils of national minorities, and 12 co-ordinations of councils and representatives of national minorities were enrolled. In the area of the exercise of the right of members of national minorities to the official and equal use of their language and letters in 2019, a significant increase in the procedure was observed in front of the authorities of the judicial authority in the language of the national minority. The Ministry of Justice in the Administration reports that in 2019 a total of 47 procedures were conducted in the language of the national minority, which represents an increase compared to 2018 when 17 proceedings were conducted in the language of the national minority. Certain shifts in 2020 were observed in several units of local self-government such as Borovo, Krnjak, Donji Lapac, Ervenik, and more significant progress in the exercise of that right was recorded in the Municipality of Markusica, which in 2020 joined the amendments and amendments to the statutes in which compliance with the legal provisions was made and provisions on the printing of the name of the settlement, traffic signs in language and the letter of the Serbian national minority were incorporated. The analysis of the implementation of the national strategy for Roma inclusion for the period 2013 to 2020 indicates further progress in the exercise of rights in the field of education, health care, employment, housing, social care, and the regulation of status rights as well as the successful implementation of numerous projects at national and local level. The Ministry of Science and Education has continued to make efforts to achieve defined tasks and measures, and given the complexity and comprehensiveness of the objectives set for improving the education of members of the national minority including early childhood education and education of children but in primary, secondary and higher education and of course adult education. In connection with the employment of members of national minorities, according to data from the Ministry of Justice and Administration's records on 31 December 2019, 50,026 employees and tenants were employed by the authorities of the state administration and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of which 3.6% were members of national minorities. On 31 December 2019, 3,06% of members of national minorities were employed in local and regional self-government units. With regard to the employment of members of national minorities on 31 December 2020, 3.07% of all national minorities were employed in government authorities and professional services and offices. According to data provided by the Ministry of Justice and Administration on 31 December 2020, 2,92% of members of one of the 22 national minorities were employed in local and regional self-government authorities. In 2019 and 2020, a number of measures were continued to combat discrimination and hate crimes against national minorities. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities during 2019 coordinated the drafting of a new protocol on the treatment of hate crimes with a view to strengthening the effectiveness of competent authorities, strengthening trust in institutions and improving the data collection system for hate crimes, as well as the demarcation of the obligations of individual bodies dealing with the control of hate crime, determining the obligations of competent authorities involved in the detection, handling and monitoring of the results of procedures conducted in cases of hate crimes and defining specific forms for statistical collection of hate crime cases. In the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination during 2020. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has co-ordinated the creation of a new national plan for the protection and promotion of human rights as well as the prevention of discrimination for a multi-annual period. The Implementing Document of that National Plan will be an action plan to combat discrimination for a three-year period. This will ensure the continuity of the strategic action in the area of avoidance of discrimination and compliance with the current legislative framework for strategic planning. Finally, in connection with financial resources, according to the received data from the ministries and all other competent authorities for the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2019, 188 000 500, 188 million 507 000 882 kuna were spent, and in 2020, we had 27,5 million kuna more than it was in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106779	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Spijic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106780	Thank you very much. I must first express my regret that in 2022 we are talking about a report from 2019 and 2020. Well, good. Since Mr Plenkovic sat in the government in 2016 until 2020, to which this is the case, the report to the Serbian National Council of Donations from the budget grew by 287%, respectively. Since 2016 you have had 9.9 million kuna, in 2020 you have 28 million and 508,000 kuna. My question is, can you briefly say of those 28 million and 500 thousand kunas that are the three main items that you have that money going to from these 28 million and 500 thousand kunas? With the Serbian National Council working as far as I know who the citizens' association is. It's the money of all let's tell all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so if you can answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106781	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106782	Thank you, Your Honor. What I can say and answer your question is that here today we are discussing the total amounts that are, which are financed by associations and legal persons worth national minorities, and that all the data is shown here and everything is clearly visible, transparent and if you are interested in anything specific about the Serbian National Council, you have a place where you can address and get all the information, and by respecting the Law of Access to Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106783	The next replica of my colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106784	Dear Vice President, our beautiful hoodie, oh, you Kraut pipe dear, old glory grandfather, to kill everything, dear canonado, you're the only one, dear to us where you're flat, sweet unselective, Holder's and Sava run, Vukovar's asphalt depth, in front of Lisa's world, tell us that the artillery of the Croats loves it, while the meron's sun warms up, while the Serbs hide its graves, the hoodie beats everything. No, this is not a text from some enemy newspapers since the Homeland War, this text is from the weekly Serbian National Council News so-called. Popov's news. This is what one cover of the news looks like, our beautiful burns nicely. The same news is being financed from the Croatian State Budget, of all citizens of this country. Do you think it is appropriate for these texts to come out and be financed from the Croatian State budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106785	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106786	I thank the honourable representative and may not respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106787	Here's a colleague of Pavlik's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106788	Injury of the Rules of Procedure to Injure the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, the deputy prime minister demeans the parliamentary representative because he does not want to answer the question. There are 22 national minorities in Croatia, I think 20 are financed from the state budget. Every national minority has its rights and obligations and every national minority as well as the majority Croatian people, what they should do is respect the state they live in. This is all just disrespect for the Croatian state and I'm sorry you can't say it out loud and clear, and you're sitting in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106789	Time, time. I won't give you a warning since, yes, you have the right to be desirable to respond to, to replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. The vice president felt she shouldn't, but I won't give you a warning. Let's move on, next replica, dear colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106790	Thank you very much. I would only ask why the financing of the Serbian People's Council where Dean Jovic, who says Croatia has failed a political project, and at the time he said it was the president of the Serbian National Council, your predecessor Milosevic and Plenkovic now rewards you, so let him not receive Croatian kunas in his pocket, the Serbian National Council, so let him say that Croatia has failed a political project. So why are we throwing that money away to people who hate Croatia, basically hate it, and we have problems here in the field, I live where people are Serbian nationalities, we have common problems. How do you comment on the Serbian People's Council statement that Croatia has failed a political project by Dean Jovic, who is an intellectual, as he says?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106791	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106792	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question. The Serbian National Council is a roof organisation of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia and all the councils that are members of this coordination and association have their rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and as such can be financed, worked and operated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and when you mention in particular your end, I hope that there will be opportunities for us to solve together the problems of access paths to the church in the area of Sinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106793	Thank you. We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Bull's, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106794	Thank you very much... 238, not according to the church but to the Orthodox cemetery, nor does anyone care, to the church is a river road, other problems have an Orthodox church in Sinj, you are obviously misinformed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You did not comment, I am not defending Jovic that he is saying what he thinks but is paying him to Croatian citizens with Croatian kunas as he says the failed political project. We could direct that money here for this trip to the Orthodox cemetery of St. Petra in Sinj, and you are not but paying Croatian haters, who he gives attitudes, whose attitudes he gives, and we pay for it, Plenkovic pays for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106795	Comrade Bulj, thank you, I must give you a warning, given that you did not actually use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for what you needed but rather expressed your dissatisfaction with the answer given to you, and you do not like it, so you have a warning. Let's move on, next replica of my colleague Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106796	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Chimpraga, therefore, in the area of the exercise of the right to the official and public use of the language and letters of national minorities, in the opinion of the Council for National Minorities in these reports during 2020. progress has not been made in the desired objective and despite the prescribed obligation to bring the JLS Statute into line with the National Minorities Constitutional Act, local environments still exist where this has not been done or has not been done until, until the end, fully. What we notice in this report in '19. And the '20s. is that it has not been implemented, the Ministry of Administration and the Justice has not implemented measures aimed at administrative oversight of the statutes of local units, so my question is very simple, will you from your new position correct that I would say a mistake that there is no administrative supervision to bring these local statutes in line with the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106797	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106798	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. As you saw in the 27 JLS report, we also saw in 2020 that there were improvements in some JLS, e.g. Gračac municipalities they absolutely did nothing about it and it is our task not only for Gračac but also for other JLS who have the right to sit with them, talk and to find ways to make everything that is written in the law to be regulated both in this way and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106799	Thank you. Here's the next replica, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106800	Thank you. Always this kind of discussion opens up the issue of funding for SNV Novosti, actually here I hear here a colleague yelling you should or should comment on and say that it is the freedom of the media, so it is not a questionable freedom of the media, and besides here there is Miro as a Croatian defender, I think they have also fought that everyone in this country can comment, say what it wills, and even these things that we disagree with, which one can take as an attack on the state. This is about funding, whether we're going to finance state money for those who talk and advocate such ideas, and that's actually the problem. And I think the biggest problem is these and I'd like to hear your opinion of the Serbian news or, as a colleague of Popovec's news has said, what they don't really advocate what most members of Serbian nationality think. So I'm convinced that these people Miro is talking about who knows their problems better than you might know them. In fact, they don't want Serbian news to stand up for [[Intruder: Time.]] Some attitudes that are anti-Christian [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Yugoslav Left than Full [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] different attitudes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106801	I have to give you a warning, you've exceeded 13 seconds. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106802	I thank you for the complex question, and you yourself have said that I should have answered it now, and it is clear to you that the freedom of the media is what we need to cherish, what we care about, and that it should not be on this subject so much debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106803	The next replica, the distinguished representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106804	I'm not going to replicate this one, but I'm going to take this event so Mrs. Shimpraga has to defend something that she didn't coordinate and I see it defends well. I want to take this opportunity to congratulate her on her work today and to wish her all the best in the next, next year when she will behave. We also look forward to Mr Boris Milosevic here again because we consider him an honorable man.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106805	This was a replica of congratulations. Here's an answer to your card.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106806	Thank you, Your Honor. After all the outbursts and hatred and intolerance towards me as a person it is nice to hear in the Croatian Parliament and such beautiful words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106807	And the last replica of your opening presentation, the distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106808	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I'm interested in this even though it's not a topic today, but do you perhaps have any information on the withdrawal of the National Minority Council's resources during the pandemic? So, did you maybe encounter some data, do you know, if you could tell us some numbers about whether there was an increase or a decrease in some kind of pandemic affecting that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106809	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106810	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question. I can't talk about the numbers, but I do know that the National Minority Council has taken care of the pandemic conditions in order to improve the functioning of these associations, the payment and everything else they've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106811	Thank you, we've exhausted all the replicas on your opening exposure. Madam Vice President, you may proceed. We have to ask before we begin the debates on behalf of the clubs. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Most Club, the time will be shared by MPs, yeah, changes, okay, on behalf of the Most Club, the MOST representative will only speak for the distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106812	Thank you very much. I also said in the replica that it is, and it is going to begin that the simple relationship with national minorities is a reflection of democracy and the equality of all is most important, so right away at the beginning I say what I think because I am so in principle and raised, so I have lived and so I will die. And that's what I'm gonna talk about. However, it is unclear for me to finance an institution with which, I think, where the vice president or adviser did not know what the Serbian National Council said was a failed political project. At the same time, the vice-president of the Croatian government in 2020 was Mr Milosevic and the president of the Serbian National Council. And no one's denying anything but an increase in funds. So here's not the question of me defending someone to express his position. No, but when someone who is high-ranking in the Serbian People's Council, which is financed from the RS budget, why didn't they say no to me swearing when a political project failed. The kunas were not a failed political project, but he took the kunas because they were important money. That's the problem. The fact that he said that as a person is his political attitude that I disagree with, but, but to receive money that way or, say, here's the thing you mentioned my end. When you mention my end as regards the Serb national minority, of course... National minorities and here MPs, but you as vice president mentioned my end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, in my neighborhood do they read Serbian news, they share those views? LGBT attitudes share those views I don't know which attitudes, attitudes that I don't know what this fellow read now, they share those attitudes, and a lot of those people were those who spoke against Croatia, mocking the anthem, and we're paying it out of the budget. Do they share those attitudes? Is it pure as exclusive and only Yugoslav attitudes. And it's democracy and law, I mean editorial policies. But these people, for that money that you're giving, how much we could solve these problems. So we're propagating politics against Croatia here. Well, I mean, do you know that 9,000 people of Serbian nationality were Croatian defenders, if anyone mentioned them. Here, I'll commend a lot of our colleague Kajtazi made him promote the role of defender of the Roma national minority in the Homeland War. I commended it, I'll commend it again. So he's worked on it a lot. Is anyone working on it, rather than paying exclusively those who, from the budget, say that Croatia is a failed political project. Both the protection and these use of national minorities' funds hope to be used in the best way, but the Croatian state I think is the only one, when I watch here the Republic of Serbia compared to Croatia we see what it is, according to the Croats in Serbia, we have 37 times more in Croatia for the National Minority of Serbia in Croatia than Croatia, Croatia in Vojvodina or Serbia. You have the right to 3 MPs, you have 12 mayors guaranteed, you have the power, you are the majority, I am the minority here right now, so you have everything and okay, but that Croats there have no guaranteed, there the Croat must fight regardless of 2004. the agreement on, which has been signed on proportionality, is not respected. I know... I see the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Glavasevic, you are looking for which article I am breaking, probably a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I am glad to pollemise about this, but we must stress that Croatia, in the Croatian state, is governed by those who have views on the Chetnik party in Banja Luka or whether there was, not in Banja Luka, I don't know whether it was, somewhere it was, when, somewhere it was, I don't know, I don't know on Ravna Gora, somewhere it was for Storm Day, the day of mourning was there and there was a representative of the government, or. Most of Mr. Pupovac, our parliamentary representative, in Croatia everything is allowed, all is allowed by colleague Radin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're 30. in this assembly, and you know that everything is allowed, and no examples of the people of the Serbian national minority say who are positive, who gave their lives from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, who were members, who gave a great role, I commend it means the Serbian national minority because I live with these people and I know their problems well and I accept their problems and I will solve their problems, as you said this triba together and I have no problem with it. However, I have a problem if someone is taking Croatian kunas and making fun of the state as a failed political project, and the prime minister also accepts HDZ colleagues. Dear Mayor Drniš, it is acceptable for you to literally mock at the Chetnik party representatives of your SDSS-HDZ coalition. It's acceptable to you, it's unacceptable to me, it's acceptable to me to have every single man here who sits any Serb, any Croat, every man. So I hope once again that these funds that you have will be targeted for the needs of course for culture, for everything the triba, but do not finance what is unnecessary, what is mocked by the foundations of Croatia, what provokes people, what is done by destruction among people, amongst the peoples of national minorities and the majority people. So I'm sending a clear message from here, the national minorities are in Croatia, they're political thoughts of Croats, but the Serb national minority, I'm talking about it mainly now. However, you who represent in the assembly under a special law do not do this equally to all people, do not do it safely to those who have defended Croatia, certainly according to the defenders, while counterpart Kajtazi does it for his national minority. The role in the Homeland War of the Roma community was a book, it was also described the event and it is commendable. I would like to see the Serbian People's Council play a role in the Croatian troops of Croatian Serbs from HV, police, and there were, I think, with me people and Croatian Defence Forces or HOS, to describe this, the Croatian Council of Defence, there were those people in my desk, there was no such thing, other than the Chetnic parties where Milorad Pupovac goes by, po, to the Storm to go to Serbia as the majority representative, even Milosevic seems to me as vice-president of the government, I can't get enough, and he didn't forget to leave that year, but he was probably a representative. Therefore, it was in Ravna Gora that Dragana was in, that party of Vučićev. ... Al di was a party of Vučićev what on Storm Day in, on Ravna Gora, where he was, I don't know where he was in Serbia... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] If you can, here, we'll wait for you to get rid of me where he was. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So here is once again for all national minorities of course the triba to give up, give the maximum and we as most try to accept them, but you as a majority in the SDSS who, of course, is based exclusively on SNV on News, Democracy, Democracy, of course, have the right to their own opinion, but are financed by Croatian kunas, and talking about Croatia as a failed political project is unacceptable for me. And that these people are fair to say we are not going to Croatian kuna, we are not going from the budget money, Croatia is a failed political project and intellectuals, and believe me that the people of the Serb national minority are much lower in the areas of this rural, marginally much more interested standard, their difficult living conditions that we and the Croats and Serbs and other national minorities in this area together, and here I just want you to answer this few questions that I have asked, and if you can answer as vice-president of the government what you say when someone says that politically, you have not answered me that political Croatia has failed the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106813	Come on, we've got a few injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you can go to your place. The first violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Glavasevic, is here in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106814	Your Honor, ma'am. The vice presidents of the assembly were injured by two articles of the Rules of Procedure, the first is 232, so this was definitely a speech outside the subject because we didn't actually hear about law enforcement but a lot of other things. The second article that was injured was in 238, so our new Deputy Prime Minister is and should not be invited and asked to answer questions about what someone else thinks about whether Croatia is a successful or unsuccessful political project. She's, I'm sorry, let me get a warning, I'm gonna pull a little out of time. The person who experienced a terrible war fate in her childhood is completely comparable to mine. And I believe that with her oath she's in both HS and when she became [[Time, buddy.]] Deputy Prime Minister, I'm gonna get a warning and I'm okay. [[Intruder: colleague Glavasevic.]] That it's offensive for her and for me to call her that kind of thing. [[- You will.]] And for all of us here, it's offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106815	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is now done by you because you've exceeded your time by 28 seconds and you've got a warning, but you would have had, too, if you hadn't exceeded your time because in one good part you've abused the Institute's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106816	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. A representative of the arbitration and insulting speeches according to one part of the Croatian population, namely, talks about LGBT views. I don't know what these LGBT attitudes are, there are LGBT people and I think it's commendable that one daily paper writes positively about the human rights of these people, not putting them in the context of something extremely negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106817	I will not give you a warning because in one part of the fact that, we must stick to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and ensure that we have the right to our position, but that when we express that attitude we do not repeal certain constitutional provisions and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, especially when we talk about minorities, regardless of what kind of minority it is. Comrade Bulj, here you go, and you, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106818	You've injured the article you, the Honorable Vice President, are giving your views to the Assembly's representative... speak, colleague Hajduković and.../incomprehensible/... art. 238 and his colleague Glavasevic, 238. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I was just sticking to the subject because I was belittled as an agent. I have the right to express my views here, I have said, I have asked the question in a very democratic way, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and.../incomprehensible/... you have not even warned them, and you have injured the whole article because you have commented on what is in the Constitution... So I know what the Constitution is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106819	Thank you. Here's the thing, let's do it in a row. Just a second. My leadership and leadership of this session, among other things, must be neutral and I must take care of it to ensure peace and order so that the session can take place. Secondly, what is my obligation while I chair here is to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is not violated, but also to keep in mind that constitutional provisions or laws of the Republic of Croatia are not offended. Thirdly, I am obliged when someone raises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to explain whether or not I will give a measure of urgency to someone afterwards. In order to explain it, I have to explain why to someone, why you who've committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure is, or you're on the right track, and I've done it without using any of my powers, if I've made a mistake, I'd be the first to give myself a warning, there have been such examples here. Let's move on. You are, I will not give you a warning because you used your breach of the Rules of Procedure to warn you that perhaps the Rules of Procedure has been hurt by me, I disagree with you, but that is no reason to give you notice because you have not hurt the Rules of Procedure this time. But you want to indicate again that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, here you go. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106820	You've hurt, you've hurt an officer. 238,... Your rules of procedure continue to disdain MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You're still explaining what you've done, what you've done, what measures, discretionaryly your right. More and more you remind me of this Mr. Academy Knight in running the session, the knight of Mr. Reiner. If he's giving his opinions, too. A parliamentary speaker from a pay phone can say within the subject of what he wants, so the people chose us, and you are in violation of the absolutely Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106821	You've now exceeded your time, if you think I, uh, hurt the Rules of Procedure, you know who you can and what time this one is talking to. ... Go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go, for this I'll give you this one, I'll give you a warning for this now because I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you have misused the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and I will only repeat that we here are obliged to explain our actions. We have a request for a break, colleague Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106822	Yeah, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the National Minority Club to try to take a stand together whether Mr. Bulj was in the topic or not because we haven't figured it out yet. Someone thinks he was in the dark, for example. He, and someone thinks he was off topic, I think, everyone else. Also, I want to take advantage of that break along with Mr. Kajtaz, Keatazi, and Madame. Jeckov to think about how difficult it will be for you now and how difficult it has been for you so far and how you will have to deal with the attitudes you disagree with and with the attitudes you cannot give before the debate begins, or do you think you can't give. I wish happy work to you, the happy work of the gentlemen who are here, and I see that there are more, I would say anthropologist than the Indians here and wish for all the best Mr. Bulju who has again sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106823	Of course we'll give you a break, on behalf of the club. I don't bother and I don't think I'm struggling. It is my duty here to hold a session in this charge that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the Constitution be harmed and that this debate be civilised, but immediately I say that those who wish to be accepted by this debate now, or at this duel, in the diary, or to be removed from the session that they will not succeed. I can do this by tomorrow. Here you go, Comrade Bull. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106824	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, my colleague, Radin, has injured Article 238, disdaining the MPs, and it has not been a break in the subject. So you know what the law is, it's not the law on the position of Mira Bulja, but you know what we're discussing about the Report of National Minorities, and he's literally been talking about my position on whether it's off the topic or whether it's on the subject. But he's a parliamentary representative who's had one vote and doesn't get many more, and here he's already been a drone for 30 years, and I, who have a lot more votes, am not going to say how much I have the right to express my position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106825	Comrade Bulj, you've exceeded your time, and among other things, you've misused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure because you've actually used a breach of the Rules of Procedure to refer to someone's request for a break. Therefore, I must give you a reminder on the basis of Article 240(2) of the Rules of Procedure by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject, and then, uh, we still have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and we are going to take a break. Here you go, colleague Jeckov. What's the injured Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106826	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, our colleague Furio Radin, a representative of the Italian national minority in the Republic of Croatia, was called a drone. It's another one in a series of epithets that becomes part of this tall home's vocabulary. I find it really inappropriate, and that's why I expect your reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106827	My colleague Jeckov won't give you a warning, but I just have to warn you that your breach of the Rules of Procedure was actually unnecessary because I've already responded. And now I declare a five-minute break, and I'll see you in, six minutes, at 13 and 35, we'll proceed with the session. It's 13,29 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:37 A.M.]] Next up is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will be spoken by counterpart Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106829	Respected HS Vice-President, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister. National minorities should be the wealth of one state, and I think in most countries it is that way. And if you are a member of a national minority, you should be proud of your national identity, safeguarding your customs, your faith, your culture, your language, and so should modern society. In Croatia there are 22 national minorities on the current 2011 list. So we have 17,513 Albanians, we have 297 Austrians, 31,479 Bosniaks, 350 Bulgarians, 4.517 Montenegrins, 9,641 Czechs, 14.048 Hungarians, 4.138 Macedonians, 2,965 Germans, 672 Poles, 16,975 Roma, 435 Romanians, 1,279 Russians, 1,936 Russian, 4,753 Slovaks, 10,517 Slovenians, 186,633 Serbs, 17.807 Italians, 367 Turks, 1,878 Ukrainians, 29 Vlachs and 509 Jews. It's the last official list, probably something of this new data will be changed. And a large part of these national minorities I think 22, 20 of them finance from the state budget, primarily through their minority councils. Of these all minority councils, the Serbian National Council, given that both the Serb national minority and the most numerous, receives the most funds and in 2021. At the National Minorities Council, it is funded with more than 3 million kuna, and we also know that this Serbian National Council is funding the issue of News Weeks. Namely, every national minority as well as the majority of the Croatian people is expected to respect the state in which you live, you have certain rights, you have certain obligations and I think that Croatia is despite the very high degree of integration of national minorities in society with a number of rights manifested in political rights, guaranteed mandates at local, regional and state level with its representatives in government and many of the older democracies have not even given the national minorities around this threshold given by the Republic of Croatia. But what's the minimum minimum of respect for the country in which you live. Unfortunately, the editorship of News with its inscriptions, with its texts neither respects this country nor the foundations of its value. Here we have this famous cover beautiful our beautiful mountain which has been issued for military redistribution action “Storm”. Is this appropriate for a newspaper, or weekly, which is financed from the state budget? Is it appropriate to make fun of the Croatian anthem under the title Beautiful Our Hubby? Is it appropriate to make fun of high church officials, primarily Catholic clerics? He wants to make fun of right-wing politicians among whom I belong, but it is not appropriate to finance with Croatian kunas and to spit in the Croatian state. It's not appropriate and it has nothing to do with democracy, it has nothing to do with journalistic freedoms, it has nothing to do with human rights. I don't mind, however, that national minorities are financed from the state budget to have their cultural manifestations, to have their own sporting manifestations, to finance their own press releases in their own language, but I do not mind that these things are financed from the state budget. And this is the result of the HDZ and SDSS coalition, which should be said openly and clearly. Some Croatian citizens know what decisions are made by the government of the Republic of Croatia which can be financed in this country. And once again, national minorities are the wealth of every country, but national minorities must respect the country they live in. But hardly will members or a good part of the members of the Serb national minority of Croatia view the country as their own and the favors are towards it when the main political representatives here in HS cannot answer, their representatives, cannot answer very simple questions, from "Storm", from how the Homeland War started or they avoid answering that, or they say it is not the same for us. Then how can you expect your community to think differently? I will not go in so that you do not leave the topic and question who is represented by the Serbian People's Council? Whether it represents all these 184,000 Serbs or only those who were in occupied areas because these statements turn out to represent only one part of the Serb community that stood up against the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, and there were those who were on the Croatian side even with weapons in their hands. So I think there's a lot of things to clean up in your backyard and say openly, so you're the owners of these newspapers, so let's just say a lot, don't insult the country we live in, don't insult it. It has nothing to do with journalistic freedoms. With these texts, you bring in additional unrest and you bring in extra impatience unnecessarily because this has nothing to do with human rights, with journalistic freedoms, this is pure provocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106830	Thank you. We are going to the next club, it is the Club of Representatives of National Minorities on behalf of whom will speak the distinguished representative and vice president of the Croatian Parliament of colleagues Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106831	Thank you very much, dear colleague vice president. Mrs. Shimpraga, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tahiri, State Secretary, Counselors and dear counterparts of Bucharest, I am a little disabled with the fact that there is no Mr. Bulj here because I wanted to do a little polymize with the things he said, and since I am not going to give him at all these false allegations that no longer exist in our Rules of Procedure, then get properly sanctioned, but this one can be used by anyone who states naturally in the speech. Then I won't talk about it at all. I'm going to talk about something, first I'm going to say that we're going to vote for these, for those reports, and second I'm going to talk about things of course that aren't in this report and we're very much holding, and I'm going to go a little bit into '21, '21. Year, 2021. Of course, at some point, you're gonna have to interrupt me because this one's got the impression that I have a speech in more than 10 minutes, but it doesn't matter. There is an offended opinion in a part of the population, and today we have heard something in this style that being a member of a national minority is actually a privilege. And being a representative of a national minority means being caught, being like, not being here, so I'm not gonna use the word, being a lobbyist, doing some business. Since this is about firm attitudes and these hard attitudes, it is usually about people who already have a certain number of years of age who can say that I have no intention of changing those attitudes, because after certain years it is impossible to change attitudes rather than to say what I think. And those who think otherwise keep their attitudes that I think are wrong but because of tolerance, I'll never say they're wrong, but I'll say I don't agree with those people. So I won't pollomise with firm views, but I believe that minorities, that minorities have more than most, that minorities have more money than most, that members of national minorities have too much power in Croatian society, that this is something that we have seen in the last century, and that is something that has produced very big problems, and that Croatia is one small country and that these groups that represent such attitudes are still marginal, and they are not dominant. We are fortunate to have the dominant, I'm talking about political life, for this second one we should do research, dominantly in political life we have the political forces of the left and right center, which support the rights of national, national, national minorities. So, uh, these two reports, as said earlier in general, say that I'm going to go back to that, that part that my colleague Simprag read. In general, they say that this one, here it is, that the views are consultative, that the views of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, their views and their recommendations, are their 5 opinions on the implementation of the Framework Convention on... The Republic of Croatia says they're mostly respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to say that I mostly agree with that finding, and now I'm going to say a few words about it, about where they're not, where they're not respected. In general, we can say that from a financial point of view and here we agree with those who have said it, even if in a negative sense from a financial point of view there are certain positive shifts and, of course, we are grateful for these shifts which mean that the proposals of associations and other bodies of the national minorities are respected, and on the other hand, we think that because we have been very lagging behind for decades before this, it is still not as much as the national minorities that I do not know now will be the percentage of the population in this census but who occupy around 7, 7 and a half percent of the population. That's not enough yet, but the shifts are very visible. And that's what my national minority of these shifts sees and from that part of the financial point of view can't say anything other than that our hand when we adopt these reports will certainly be raised with 100% conviction. In the field of education and education, in the languages of national minorities is the situation, but even here it remains largely unchanged. But when it is said that it is not damaged, it remains largely unchanged, it is said that there are programmes a, b and c, but that, for example, Serbian schools are not yet registered, schools in Serbian language in eastern Slavonia. It is said that the problem of the state's graduation as far as the Italian national minority is concerned has not been solved yet. I would ask you to keep that in mind because, of course, Mr. Fuchs will have to talk about it more. There's a lot to be done here. One shift was made in the translation of books, school books. School books are translated more than they used to. The problem of bilingualism of another language commission, the Council of Europe found that even in Istria, where all bilingualism was best respected even in Istria, there was a certain stalemate. I'm not going to talk about what kind of impasse we're facing in Eastern Slavonia. As for Roma involvement, shortly before I spoke with Mr. Kheitazi, the problem of segregating the Roma in Međimurje remains. And as for the development of tolerance, the problem as the ethnic businessman says is, yes, who came from an unforeseeable place, right, which spread after by all pores of society [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Especially from the right, this problem actually shows [[Intruder Voter: Time.]] that tolerance really does not exist in this respect. [[Intruder Voter: Comrade Radin, please stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106832	Thank you. We're going to the next club of representatives, it's a Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106833	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister with state institutions, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the content of the Report for 2019 and 2020 on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as a continuation of the status and position of national minorities in our society, which we have recorded in continuity from 2016 as positive, noting that, in addition to a number of excerpts, mainly stemming from the operational programme of the Government of the Republic, for the national minorities of the first period of 2016 to 2020 and... Between 2021 and 2024. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During this period, the improved cooperation and funding of the programme for all national minorities, in which the encouraging co-ordinatorial role in the incentive of resor, was taken by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic himself, and by his ministers, with the support of the roof organisations of national minorities and with the exceptional pawnage and governmental offices of the primary Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, as well as the Council for National Minorities. In 2020, I would particularly point out the role of the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Social Activities and Human Rights who also acted as president of the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Plan for Roma Inclusion for the period 2021-2027 as an inter-resolute body serving as a form of discussion and support for the implementation of a number of activities stemming not only from the aforementioned National Plan for Roma but also from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I reiterate the operational programmes of the Government for National Minorities, which, unlike the Strategic Documents and the Constitutional Law, are the broadest foundation to regulate the rights of national minorities, constitute an implementing document with clear deadlines and holders of activities. Of course, the problem remains very special when we talk about the situation of the Roma national minority, social and social problems as well as those to which it is being addressed, especially education shows that there is still much to be done for the integration of the most vulnerable members of the Roma national minority, in particular to focus on young members of the Roma national minority in the ghettoised settlements and to do even more to provide them with a prerequisite for education from preschools to higher schools, and an encouraging model of integration in society itself. Unfortunately, Roma settlements have never filled black chronicles before, so we are already in February 2020. recorded the murder of the mother of 11 children in the Roma village of Piskorovec near Malia Sobotica. The next 2021. In August, another murder, the wounding of five people including a child in a Roma settlement in Parago. Although we have discussed in the media the issue of the guilt of institutions, individuals, me, police, the Roma community, the answer to this question is only systematic and coordinated action through the implementation of agreed activities in these documents to remove the causes of the problems mentioned, alcoholism, drugs, interest, domestic violence, crime rates, poor educational outcomes, more and more segregated schools, etc. In all of this, we are particularly sharpened and the writing of certain mainly local media that attributed all these problems to the entire Roma community, all incidents of individuals connected with the goal, with the whole community and thus continuously encouraged hate speech and discrimination both on the Internet and in real life, which is what I condemn this way. Speaking of national level, I must say that I am satisfied with the government of the Republic of Croatia's policy, but I am not satisfied with the level of national and local coordination, nor with the cooperation of the local level with the elected representatives of the Roma community. The situation of course varies depending on one to the other JLS, but I must say that the relations of the most numerous Roma community in Međimurje with the local level have been violated, and that this cooperation is particularly bad from... I want a normal life in Međimurje. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, because of the situation on the labour market, we note that a large number of Roma are employed by the fact that in Croatia, which outside of Croatia on temporary work, and we note the same by improving the position of the Roma national minority. As I said earlier, we import tens of thousands of foreign workers who do not know Croatian while we still do not have a satisfactory level of employment within the Roma community, which is one of the main problems that we should all continue to work on together. When we talk about the preconditions and causes of the problems I have mentioned, and the issue of education is precisely the issue of employment and living conditions. Also, there are two problems that are the slowest and hardest to solve. Contrary to some media interpretations, what I've been saying for years, and what shows is a series of research into both domestic and PISA, research shows that socioeconomic status is one of the main predictive factors of educational success. What is also important to say, and that we must spend certain resources on this problem, but these funds are also not a solution but a means. There is a particular need to highlight work in the community itself, therefore field work, working with the youngest, and our work at national level is to create technical and financial conditions for the cooperation of the Roma community and the local community either through associations, schools, kindergartens, preschools, etc.. Despite the efforts of a number of individuals of the Centre for Social Care, many mayors, mayors or mayors enter Roma settlements only before elections, which is not a good message and it is something the Roma community also notices and punishes in local elections. With all the problems that I mention, of course, and all the known problems of the world pandemic of coronaryvirus and the earthquake in Banovina and Zagreb, and inflation and energy collection represent a problem that has multiple negative effects on the most vulnerable groups such as Roma. The restriction of movement and work has particularly affected those who are not constantly employed, and the period of the first lockdown has been particularly challenging for them, and I must commend the Roma Alliance in Croatia Kali Sara, Kali Sara, who, in co-operation with civil protection and with the support of the government, has carried out numerous field humanitarian activities, information and support programmes for the Roma community. Of course, cultural events are difficult or in no way organised at both national and international level. The first major international conference organised by the Roma community took place only last month in Zagreb at the conference "Roma as Indian Diaspora - Unbreakable Relationships". Finally, despite a number of problems, I would like to reiterate that the direction of movement and activity at the level of the state would be extremely favourable, and this would also highlight the work of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Activities and Human Rights, and a resolution such as the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds on Infrastructure, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, on the issue of improving living conditions, the Ministry of Science and Education when we talk about scholarships and educational issues, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, together with the Environmental Protection Fund when we talk about the electing of Roma settlements and the removal of illegal waste dumps, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Space, Construction and State Property, as well as the Ministry of Labour, the Pension System, Family and Social Policy. All these resors, like others, have taken steps that are important, and cooperation with all other resors was good if needed. In conclusion, I repeat, that we are positively assessing the development of the situation at national level from 2016 to today, as well as in these crisis pandemic years that have affected all, although I have spoken mainly about the Roma community in this exhibition, I believe that they can be satisfied with the other minorities that I represent especially because of the activities of the National Minorities Council through which they have been significantly increased separations for programmes and content of all minority associations, and it is important to say [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that this trend has continued to this day. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106834	Comrade Katazi, thank you. Following on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, Honorary Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106835	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, allow me, at the beginning of the debate, to spend just a minute of our time together on disclosing some of the things we've had to hear here. I'm afraid that there are often pears and apples involved here so some mention the LGBT community, it's a minority community but it's also not a national minority but a sexual minority, and members of the LGBT community can be Croats, Hungarians, Italians, Roma etc., etc. But when we settle that, we go back to the national minorities. If we see the state as one mosaic, a colorful mosaic that works first and makes up its people. As you know, mosaics consist of small, small segments that together make up one big picture, so I think that Croatia or the Croatian mosaic or whatever you want to say consists of small carpenters made up of its people. All minorities, all majority, all national, sexual, confessional or other minorities and majority. Together they make up a mosaic that we call our country Croatia. And as such, I think it's both inevitable and that this mosaic is incomplete if any of those little carpenters of those little segments are left out. And that's why, as some colleagues and colleagues before me have said before, I think our national minorities in this case are, above all, talking about them and our wealth. Multiculturality, openness, inclusiveness, progressiveness should be the decisions of our society, and that is what we at the Social Democrats Club are particularly committed to. So, as we have already mentioned these carpenters, some of these carpenters are also our national minorities. It is because minorities need additional help to preserve their specialities, in order to protect their identity, but by keeping their specialities and protecting their identity, we are also enriched by the majority of the people and enriched by the tracks that we call Croatia. That is why we think that the Constitutional Law, the implementation of the Constitutional Law, and then the assistance of minorities in their guaranteed constitutional rights, are very important because when we talk about minority rights, we are not just talking about minority rights to protect our identity, language and so on, we are talking about human rights as is recognised in the framework of the Council of Europe as if I am not cheating on the Vice President of the House Mr Furio Radin specifically stated that. Through the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, certain rights are consumed, so I said above all protection of cultural identity and autonomy, language care, education, etc. Of course there are many more difficulties in implementing this law, of course there are many, many shortcomings that perhaps we can discuss in the implementation itself. What I would say only for this speaker, and I believe that it has not yet been mentioned is that it is a little disappointing that only in 2022 we are discussing the year 2019 and 2020. We think this is an important topic that, in which we would at least try to hold on, hold on, hold on to some pace not only for our minority communities but for most. So far, so far, Mr Radin and Mr Keatazi's presentations, which are some of the difficulties that our minorities face, or in which segments there are certain problems. You wouldn't apostrophe them again. I'd only get some out. This is primarily education or the availability of school books or textbooks in the languages of national minorities because there are difficulties in this regard too. I would encourage the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and all other competent institutions to do so more. My colleague, Radin, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned that there are more translations about the Italian national minority, but that is, in general, but I think we're still coughing there, and it could still be much better. I would, of course, also point out the Roma national minority who deserves and special attention precisely because they need additional assistance in integration in society and I would point out that we have had a decade to include Roma and an action plan for Roma inclusion, which should certainly be continued. And from this pay phone, I'm calling on local self-government units to get into this as much as possible, to support our representative, Katazia, who's already visited the field, and I don't know how many times, but also to all the associations and councils and communities that are trying to work on this. The Roma national minority as you know it is specific, and that is why it is necessary to invest additional effort, although I am glad to say and I must say here and with a certain amount of pride that Croatia really is ahead of us in this matter and that in many, many segments, at least as far as the Roma national minority is concerned, we can be an example. Not all of us, unfortunately we still have problems, but I believe with goodwill and continuous work they can get rid of. This applies, and now that we are talking about the Roma and the east of Croatia specifically to Osijek-Baranja County where there are also certain problems, but I must commend some units of local self-government that have taken business on integration and inclusion of Roma seriously, some and not so much, and that is why I think they should be encouraged to make additional efforts. I would like to leave another thought with you not necessarily so much about the subject, but also a question that should be very important to us, and that is a matter of reciprocity and of Croatian minorities in the surrounding neighbouring countries because there are also many problems and I think it is convenient to mention this problem here. I am glad that as I said, we respect and cherish the cultural autonomy and identity of our minorities, but I would expect our neighbouring countries to do the same for the Croatian minority. If you don't think I'm just gonna talk about problems, there are good examples, and they're not that good. As a good example, I always like to name the Croatian minority in Hungary, which is highly organised, appreciated by the state supported and, say, whose educational institutions are among the most esteemed in Hungary, that is indeed a very flattering thing. But they have some problems, too, specifically with textbooks, translations, etc. which should be dealt with more effectively. There is a problem for the Croatian minority in Serbia where the still official Belgrade seems to be trying to split Croatia's national minority into two. I am glad that we finally have a representative, or in this meeting, we will have a re-representation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that we will be able to solve some problems on this side. It is also good that national minorities are represented in parliaments, including Croatia, as they show how more effective and faster problems are solved if they are involved in political life. Of course different countries have different approaches to this, we have one of, and these are guaranteed places for certain national minorities and groups, but as I said, their presence and involvement in political life again added value to us as a majority people, but also added value to solving their problems. With these thoughts I'd like to leave you with the hope that in the future we'll have a new Deputy Prime Minister here is to be more up-to-date in discussing these reports as much as possible. This is going to you now, but you should actually go to the presidency of HS, currently chaired by a fellow member of the opposition, so it's not what you would say on a clean Croatian Setter agenda, but here's a colleague and a colleague from the majority I believe will also pass on to the majority's leadership to like to look at these reports in more real time because looking at 2019 and 2020 it's like watching another world. So before the pandemic, before the earthquake, before the war in Ukraine, there was a completely different atmosphere in the world and so on in Croatia. Here, in the name of the Social Democrats Club, we will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106836	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates on behalf of the club. The next club is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Ivana Kekin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106837	Thank you. Dear Chairman, everyone else here today. Yeah, I'd agree that it's really weird, but it's still not unusual for us to discuss the 2019 and 2020 reports in 2022, but that's often happening to us, so let's cut to the chase. So, first of all, the reports show a still unsatisfactory degree of attainment by the Constitution of guaranteed rights, starting with equal application, official use of language and letters of national minorities, where despite the decisions of the Constitutional Court, there is no shift in the plan for the exercise of rights and the right to integration. To begin with, the Ombudsman also warned, the legal threshold of at least a third of the population of individual minorities in units of local self-government to introduce equal official use of minority language and letters is too high and does not comply with the European Charter and excludes those units that we have a number of people who are members of a national minority, but slightly lower than one-third. The possibility of such units being self-initiated by the statutes introducing minority languages into equal and official use is not sufficient, because in practice it is carried out extremely unequal and in fact exposes discrimination and those who are discriminated against, for example, Serbian under the law was introduced into 23, and on the basis of the statutes in only one unit, while Italy was introduced into one, and on the basis of statutes in as many as 20 units of local self-government. In addition, the problem is that there is no legal mechanism when units do not implement obligations under the law on the use of language and letter or if they obstruct it, despite the fact that in 2014, the Constitutional Court has asked the government to come up with a legal framework in which such practice will be sanctioned. For example, in Vukovar, the city council formally observes year after year the constitutional court's order to carry out the debate and decide on the possible extension of the right to use Serbian language and Cyrillic but then the city council finds that in order to systematically postpone proceedings against war crimes perpetrators, there are no necessary preconditions for recognising new and special rights in the context of the equal use of language and letter to the Serb national minority. So, for the sake of inefficient bodies of persecution in the processing of war crimes, we are denying the complete Serb community the right to use our own language and letters. The Latin-Cyrillic signs are still not set in most of the municipalities that provided for it in the statutes, and the government did not even show itself on the recommendation on the need to draw up an action plan for these characters. The level of integration is actually talked about and very defeating the results of research that say that even half of Serbian-language high school students plan to continue studying in Serbia, which in fact clearly speaks about how these high school students feel, how they feel accepted or unaccepted, how much they belong or do not belong, how discriminated and what anxiety they are caused by the fact that they speak a language they experience that others in the environment do not accept it. This report is otherwise neither adequately identified nor adequately identified by the basic underlying problem, and even more problematicly, it does not take measures, nor targets that would eliminate such discriminatory practice. But beyond the language and letters, members of the Serb national minority are daily exposed to systematic discrimination, so many Serbs returnees of which we are all aware of living in undeveloped rural areas, are traffic-insulated, living in poor living conditions and are still unable to achieve their property rights, and their property is still exposed to usurping and devastation. For example, we have compensation for older people of 800 kuna per month granted by the National Compensation Act for older people with certain social and property conditions. But one condition is that you have a condition of residence for an uninterrupted period of 20 years in the territory of Croatia. This means that one good part of the returnees who have all such property conditions, so they are poor enough to say for that fee, they still can't get it because they were once expelled, they didn't come back unfortunately in time to get the 800 kuna. Physical attacks, verbal threats, destruction of property, disabling the use of own property of members of Serbian nationality have been reported in both 2019 and 2020. This is how I came up from the top of my mind with the pursuit of water poloists on the Split Riviera, then the destruction of bilingual and two-letter panels. I also remembered that absolutely disgusting graphite that was placed on Zagreb's Kustoshia. After that, the same disgusting graphite with violent messages to the Serb community was set up in Split. Political concessions of individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament have also been continued, who like to express extreme and humiliating views towards members of the Serb minority during the debate. They are particularly concerned about the messages within the political discourse in which the nationality of politicians is used as an argument for a political assessment, which was the last time we could witness this Friday with stomach nausea. The hate speech, extremist messages, historical auditism, Ustasha symbols and calls are still present in some media, in comments from the portal readers, in social media publications rarely openly calling for murders and violence against Serbs. This may not be surprising, however, since we hear from the mouth of high government representatives an unequivocal expansion of NDH not only in 2019 and 2020, but also in 2022. Along with members of the Serb national minority, Roma national minorities have been extremely discriminated against. For the beginning of both reports, statistics on education of Roma children show a negative trend in which too many children do not even graduate from primary school education, and which translates into statistics on employment that we are not, and then this is justified by the low level of education of members of the Roma national minority. So we don't educate them for what they can't get a job, and then they're unemployed because they're uneducated. In fact, though, these reports point out that problems are actually the most vulnerable and socially endangered children in our society who often do not have the basic conditions of life. However, here's the data from the D.A.'s report that it's domestically depressed, that research shows that it's been deprived from as much as 59 to 78% of Roma households. In such a context, it is amazing that the report completely ignores the fact that due to the epidemic, a large part of the teaching is far away, and it is unimaginable that additional challenges were actually met by children of Roma national minorities. So, the report lists the attorney general's activities, mentions initiatives, mentions civil society associations Are yuyo syrious, all of this is mentioned. But there is no indication of what was actually done by the government to solve these problems. When I remember what it was like for me to be teaching distances in my apartment with all the conditions that I had and how I barely survived it, I don't want to imagine how little Roma were educated at all. So that's exactly the difference between this daily struggle through the system and the difference of that first privilege where we should actually strive for Roma national minorities' children to end their primary school as the only concern, and very, very, very, very far away from that situation. In addition to difficulties in exercising the right to education, Roma national minorities continue to face numerous obstacles to the exercise of employment rights and access to services. Many Roma families living in segregated settlements receive social assistance, but we still have catsh. Given that existing legislation does not allow car owners to receive social assistance in the event that the beneficiary of social benefits has a car or is found to be driven by that person disqualified in relation to receiving social benefits. With such arrangements, we increase segregation because then these same families can hardly reach foods, doctors, kindergartens, or schools that we talk about are very important to us. In addition, the Roma national minority, along with Serbia's frequent target of hate speech on the internet, is further concerned about the sensational and stereotyped reporting of Roma in certain media that have a negative impact on the development of prejudice and strengthens the picture of Roma as problematic parts of society. So, ultimately, nationalism, historical auditism and anti-minor rhetoric are largely directed towards members of the Serb and Roma national minorities. They are systemic, they are systematic, they are chronic, and as such we need to recognize them both clearly and clearly and unequivocally condemn them at every opportunity to finally here after 30 years go towards building mutual respect and developing a culture of tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106838	Thank you, colleague Kekin. You've brought up your colleague Pavličko's injury to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106839	Article 238 has been injured. A colleague demeans parliamentary deputies who do not have the same attitude as her, where she said last Friday there was a hate speech here over the Shimpraga election, that she had stomach nausea. I recommend Gastal, so it'll stop. But if a man listened to her, he would really think that no one here can say that he is a member of this or that national minority. And what's most interesting. You know who the first fighters are for minority issues? Those who live 500 km from the national minorities. You're the strongest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106840	My colleague Pavliček, you have, in fact, replicated your colleague Kekin through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I am the foundation of your article. 239 says the warning. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a distinguished colleague, Krunoslav Katičić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106841	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of these funds for the implementation of activities for national minorities for 2019 and 2020... By reading this, both reports first appear to be relatively similar documents, however, there is one big, large difference between these two documents because both should be placed, among other things and in the time context mentioned here, and therefore I think that these reports are complete and well made, and the time context relates to this particular fact that, in particular 2020, they took place at times when the Covida-19 pandemic existed and where this direct disstination or interaction between members of the national minority and those funds that were listed, could be difficult or difficult to establish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore call for both of us to consider these two reports and that fact. It is therefore important to note that both documents have their own base, i.e. they are based on basic documents, these are operational programmes, which were one from 2017 to 2020, and this is more recent from 2020 to 2024. The importance and strength of this strategic document, which is the base and the basis for the implementation of each report in general and for all activities, lies in this strategic document, the operational programme for national minorities, as we know, exists in Croatia, means the Strategic Planning Act, and therefore this document is considered extremely important and I know that in coordination, both the Government and in all other parts of the interaction and the creation of this process, it respects it. So to remind you, the operational program, both for national minorities, would be more based on this than, for the future, by '24. Mr. It was adopted in December 2020 and continued a truly continuous work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the existing level of protection of human rights of national minorities and so on. some sort of sequence of all the operational programs that have been going on so far. In... There are a number of activities in the operational programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this existing 113, they refer to each individual national minority separately. Before me, some of my colleagues pointed out that there are all national minorities, however, there is no need to repeat it in particular, but I think we can all agree together that care is being taken and that all national minorities are represented regardless of their numbers and activities they have. I would also remind myself that these activities take place in a number of, let's say, groups and areas of realization. So we do, so we usually have activities that apply to members of national minorities on the official and equal use of our language and letters. I don't think it should be particularly stressed that the legislative framework used in this issue is absolutely transparent and clear and that it is realized, in with a certain, somewhere with a better situation, somewhere with a slightly weaker one, but that we can be satisfied in the global part of it. We also have one that refers to the education and education of children in language and to the letter of national minorities who attend. Then, we have the right to access the public media, and I think that it is also, through a variety of different, official, public services shows quite well established, and we have a number of witnesses to update all existing issues and problems that may arise in these problems. I think and I would like to stress that there is an area that is very important, which is depicted, as well as any other nationality, cultural autonomy that exists for national minorities. I think that in this area, everything that is important to a particular minority or to the national manifestation of those feelings is quite well articulated. Also, I think that political participation of national minorities is also good, which is reflected in the number of elected councils in order to.../incomprehensible/... municipal or urban or representative bodies at all levels of the participating state. Of course, it is especially necessary to.../incomprehensible/... touch the part relating to the right and employment of members of national minorities. In that part, depending on the number and the area where it is located on the Republic of Croatia, I think the report clearly shows the figures that this right is quite well represented and that in that part of each report there are increasingly better and better results. In particular, it should be pointed out, although this has already been said several times, the emphasis and integration of the Roma national minority which I think we have both witnessed recently and myself personally and others.../incomprehensible/... fellow parliamentary representatives, that these rights are well realised thanks to the activities of that national minority. Furthermore, it can also be shown that this right to tolerance and diversity and to combat discrimination here is not enough, and I think we should all work together, and let that part be achieved as best and as possible. Even though all these activities have their own verification in financial resources, I think it is evident from both reports that all the funds spent on these activities are transparent and that we are benefiting from the members of the national minority themselves. Finally, I can say that the HDZ Club will, of course, support both of the reports in question, with one note that all these rights of members of national minorities are achieved legally and through the means of the already mentioned operational plans, which means that they are secured in each of these parts of transparency, the public and that is quite important for emphasising predictability. The predictability in the conduct of such is at the benefit of all national minorities so that I think, and thus the entire Croatian people, and therefore again again again, the HDZ Club will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106842	Thank you, buddy. We're moving on, next up is SDSS's Club of Representatives. In the name of the club will speak the esteemed representative Dragana Jeckov. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106843	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice President, I'm looking forward to this number of women at, even at vice-presidential functions, I can't help but notice that regardless of party, ideological or any other belonging. I'm just glad women are in such high places today. And of course other associates also, my respect. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities therefore dates back to 2002, to remind you, and at the end of this year we will mark deliberately not saying to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its application. The constitutional law should be one of the most important documents of the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia and of course with the Constitution itself because it guarantees equality for members of all national minorities. It is precisely this equality and protection that is governed by the constitutional law, which is known to be adopted whether 2/3 is by the majority and by its legal power above other laws. I find an interesting provision relating to the rights of national minorities and says that the right to declare nationality is strictly personal and that no one can in any way influence the way a person wants to plead. The penal law has even prescribed that a one-year sentence will punish one who deprives or restricts the right to freedom of expression of nationality or cultural autonomy. The sentence will punish who, contrary to the rules on the use of language and letter, withholds or restricts a person's right to use his language and letter and would be even more interesting than the mere reading of this provision to see whether and in any way, whether and in any way the competent institutions mention the provision when we know, for example, that in a large number of local self-government units even 23, not only in Vukovar, which is mostly mentioned, and the media usually like to force, members of the Serb community are denied the right to bilingualism. Interestingly, the Advisory Committee for the Control of the Implementation of the Framework Convention recognized certain problems in practice, so it invited us to imagine, imagine the reduction of the threshold, the lower threshold for the official use of language and letters of national minorities in local self-government, self-government and units. And more importantly, they invited us to insurance, all of us to respect and apply the prescribed conditions. In addition, the 6 report of the Committee of Experts on the application of the European Charter on the basis of which the Council of Ministers adopted recommendations for the Republic of Croatia in December states that the legal threshold of at least a third of the population of individual minorities in JLS for the introduction of equal official use of minority language and letters is too high, that it does not comply with the European Charter, and that it excludes those units in which members of national minorities are populated to a significant extent, but in a section lower than a third of the population. This problem is only partially mitigated by the possibility that units of local self-government are self-initiated by the statutes to introduce minority languages in equal and official use, as this is implemented unequally in practice. In addition, in units where minority languages are introduced into equal and official use, the situation differs greatly. From, say, effective use of Italian language to self - esteemed and symbolic written use of other languages, which is mostly composed of bilingual inscriptions on local government buildings. Also, some units that are required to introduce Serbian and Cyrillic letters because Serbs make up more than a third of the population have still failed to comply with the constitutional law or have done so but do not apply bilingualism, even by placing bilingual tables on the municipality building. Some municipalities in which the Serb community makes up most of the population have financed from their own funds the setting up of bilingual panels with the names of destinations, but have been removed by competent institutions or certainly incompetent hooligans, such as those in the case of a diocese at Knin. The right to use the language and letters of the Serb national minority is continuously violated in three municipalities in Vukovar-Srijem County by refusing to transfer the founding rights to municipalities where the right of the Serb national minority to use languages and letters is established. In this way, the registration of schools in minority language and the education model A. Unfortunately, there is still a need for justification for inaction in the light of the unfavourable political situation on the arrival of important dates, change of government, misunderstandings at the Ministry of Science and Education, and so on, but without any difficulty, it has been transferred, the founding rights to the city of Vukovar as of 1.1.2019 in just 21 days from the submission of such a request by the city of Vukovar. It is worrying that year after year, the conclusion is that the town of Vukovar has not reached a degree of understanding and tolerance between members of the Croatian people and the Serb national minority, which is why the Serb national minority does not exercise a number of collective and individual rights. I also use the opportunity to point out what is good and positive in this report, it is certainly a Council for National Minorities which is in 2020. ensure that significant funds are provided for cultural autonomy projects. Although the pandemic years were also concerned with the operation of minority folklore societies due to the epidemic was reduced, delayed or cancelled funds were not reduced but were used to improve their capacity of spatial and other conditions. I also commend the activities of the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities aimed at continuing the implementation of a series of measures aimed at combating discrimination and hate crimes against national minorities, and at removing prejudices by holding expert meetings, seminars, round tables on hate crimes and hate speech, especially for publishing annual data on hate crime cases, and keeping records supported by hate victims. It is commendable that the Protocol on the treatment of hate crime, which is in line with the National Anti-discrimination Plan for the period 2017-2022, is also adopted, but despite the activities carried out, hate speech and rhetoric aimed at members of the national minorities, especially those of Serbia, remain a serious problem. The regulatory framework for the rights of national minorities is high and we can all agree on this, as well as support for cultural autonomy which cannot be challenged. However, it is very often a problem in the self-will of individuals who simply do not want to apply a quality legislative framework or to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities or those who want it, but who are practically designated as state enemies. We must all agree that there are still difficulties in some areas such as the exercise of the right to the official and public use of minority languages and letters, representation among administration and justice employees, access to public media, and education in particular when it comes to minority education or the registration of minority schools as a teaching institution in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. All of this should move us to one more determined solution and certainly a public condemnation of all cases of public encouragement to violence and hatred, hate crime, as well as radical nationalism, historical auditism and anti-human rhetoric in public and political discourse, and to encourage us to prevent the crime of hatred that affects members of national minorities and others from being effectively investigated and properly sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106844	Thank you very much, colleague Jeckov. Bauk, please don't throw my colleague Bauk out of the bench. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of whom colleagues Oreskovic and Pulak will speak. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic, first you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106845	Thank you, distinguished MPs and MPs. Mr Krunoslav Katičić spoke in front of the HDZ Club about the time context in which we are discussing these reports, thinking that we have a report for 2019 and 2020, that in the meantime we also had a pandemic and this now global crisis created by Russia's aggression against Ukraine. But instead of that time context that I will look back on in view of another problem, I would like to talk about a procedural context. In fact, the essence of democracy is the rolling process, and if through these procedures we cannot control the government, that means that there is a serious problem in the system. For some time now, I have been dealing with reports submitted by different state bodies, all 70 of them, so there are reports from independent regulatory agencies, there are reports from the ombudsmans and other ombudsman offices, including reports submitted by the various laws and by the government. These reports were filed under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is by its category and by its hierarchy above the other laws, so we are talking about constitutional law, so I will now read what the law says. It writes this way, at least once a year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits an HS report on the implementation of this constitutional law and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. I'll stop there, this is only half a sentence, so you say government once a year. So it's not just that we're in 2022 today. We are discussing the 2019 Report but the problem is that this report for 2019 was not submitted by the Government in 2020, but only in 2021 with a year of delay. I'm asking why. How is that possible? As it is possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass a law of one year late in breach of that provision, as it is, I agree that it is not sufficiently worked out because there is not a precise date and time limit, it is said once a year, but with a year of delay, and then neither in this Constitutional Law nor in the Rules of Procedure nor in any other provisions, it is not written anywhere within which time the report should be discussed and, for example, the consequences of the non-admission of the report. Of course, the parliamentary majority that is made up of HDZ and of the very national minorities without which there would be no 77 hands, this report will not collapse, but what is it, gentlemen dear, saying about all of you? What does it say about your ability to implement that fundamental, fundamental constitutional obligation of government control, and what kind of state can the government do with such failures? And then we move on. Therefore, the second half of the same sentence says, the Council for National Minorities to HS, or its working body, in which the exercise of the right of national minorities is part, provides a half-yearly report on issues in the Council's section and a quarterly report on the spending of funds provided in the national budget for the needs of national minorities. Where are those six-year-old reports? Where are the quarterly reports? Where are they? I didn't see them here. I haven't seen them on HS's website or anywhere else. So HS doesn't do its job through its parent bodies. When I saw the strong forces of the Croatian government today, actually when I saw in the very announcement that the government had authorized for its representatives in the first place, there are key resolution ministries. It's come to me to ask you, since, gentlemen, you've come in the first place. What do we have to ask you? It would make sense if, given the chapters that this Report has, which are the use of traditional names and symbols, education and education, the right to manifest faith and the establishment of religious communities, so something that falls within the part of the education portfolio, and then access to public disclosure, something that belongs to the section of the Ministry of Culture and Cultural Autonomy, and then the representation of the authorities in administrative and judicial bodies, and then it falls under the work of the Minister of Justice, and then housing, there we have an office, and we have ethically motivated criminal acts, which belong to the delecular Ministry of the Interior, so there are restoring ministries. It would make sense if there were no evidence of these individual chapters as an interested working body, a preliminary debate in the Parliament itself, of the parent bodies. Such a model, such a way of discussing is not even foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and what are we going to do now in these discussions on behalf of the club or individual debates? Everyone will repeat how important national minorities are to us, as we see in certain environments that we continue to have the same problems in which in our decisions, I don't know how many years ago the Constitutional Court has shown and repeat one of these same mantras, and we, as parliamentary representatives, are to regulate the rules of work of ourselves and to say what is the purpose, which is to achieve, not only by debate but also by voting on any report or by making remarks about one part of it relating to a resolute minister, so I am the point and the purpose in all this I don't see. What you would really ask, given that for a long time and in other segments we have seen that HS Rules of Procedure is one semi-creation, we see that we have a problem with replication, with injuries of the Rules of Procedure, with warnings, with one dysfunctional and disorganised system of work, that means that we are well-organised and stateed, that until the next submission of such and then all other reports, let us work out both procedural and procedural provisions and to say what their purpose is at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106846	Thank you. Let's move on, to the next club representative. This is the club of IDS MPs, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Emil Daus. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106847	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The right of minorities and their involvement in society over time has improved, which is certainly to be welcomed, but we believe that there are still open issues that we must not put under the rug, such as growing nationalism, anti-human rhetoric, the exercise of the right to official and public use of minority languages and letters, representation amongst employees in the administration, justice, public media access and education, and therefore somehow I took this part in the debate to try to contribute perhaps, in some ways, even better co-existence, tolerance, bilingualism and respecting differently and differently in the full sense of these words. As a representative from Istria, I can proudly say that we are a bright example and a model of relations with national minorities, from that indigenous, Italian community to all other minorities living in Istria because the relationship with minorities does not end with political acts giving certain groups of people some rights, but we can compare this process with a democracy that is never perfect but that we are constantly building and perfecting it. It's similar with national minorities and it didn't all come overnight to us, it's a long-term process that needs to be perfected, complemented, corrected where it's needed, and it wasn't always simple. The best example may be the co-existence of the Croatian and Italian people in Istria and we can go a few centuries back, and perhaps we can stay only in the last century because unfortunately there was enough material only during the 20th century. And if they came back because some do so regularly in the negative part of the past, who would want to be negative would still find many reasons for misunderstanding and disruptive relations in the present and the future. But we said no, we were able to say that when nationalism erupted, when there was hatred, the lack of understanding of another and different, and in fact, our notes long before us who laid the foundations, as we call the fundamentals of co-existence as we do today, because it was their force of forgiveness then and those who belonged to the Croatian people like my non-net and those who belonged to Italian, such as the ancestors of my friends, acquaintances after all the personal tragedies that had passed in life, and they were serious tragedies that their strength of forgiveness and a view towards the future in which they did not want to see their descendants in the conflict but to build together their healthy future, were the most likely and the strongest foundations for such a healthy relationship and true co-existence on the Istrian peninsula. And a great contribution to preserve and improve this for the last 30 years, and I am particularly proud of it, gives IDS's policy and so because it has always existed and has never been brought into question by a clear, honest and firm political will to treat all citizens equally regardless of nationality. Such a policy has resulted in the creation of a true, multicultural society that can be a model without false modesty and a good part of Europe. And I mean not only the bilingual tables of those at the entrance to places or institutions, I don't only mean schools in Italian that attend and some Croatian children, or those in Croatian who attend some Italian nationalities, which today began to be normal in Istria. I would dare say that the thing is different because since day one, we have been clear about this importance of multiculturalism, diversity and diversity, and not as a danger and celebrate this multiculturality here is the second Tuesday 10th of May of this year in Rovinj after two years of rest, 7. A multicultural festival, so I invite you and you're welcome to it. And as for the work report itself, the IDS club will support it, but with a note of how it is necessary to put it into higher speed because it is a relationship that needs to be constantly built, and when we are at higher speed, he would agree here with some of the predecessors in the debate and in the report himself to come here regularly in the debate or much before he comes. It's really small, come on, I'll be polite, so I won't say a word, but it's not safe that after so much time we're discussing something from 2019. And before the end, let us not forget that our job is to take care of all citizens, which includes certainly members of all minorities. They are not guests in this country and would like to particularly absorb, deserve and have the same rights as all the other citizens of our country. When everyone realizes it or the vast majority still seem to me that someone does, it will be a man’s country. Members of minority communities will not feel better because we have secured rights under the statute or not just because of it, but when they really feel they are free to speak and live their culture. This is what is essential to them as members of the national minorities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106848	Thank you, colleague Daus. The next is the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106849	Dear colleagues and colleagues. 2012 We have marked but not celebrated 10 years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in 2022 we will mark but not celebrate 20 years from the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and in 2027 we should celebrate, but not mark the 25th year of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities because when we look at the situation I am actually not sure whether my colleague Jeckov correctly noticed that we should mark, not celebrate. In fact, it is a rare example in democratic multiparty systems that one group gets 100% in the election, which is in the 12th constituency in this 2020 cycle. It happened. All eight representatives of national minorities who were in the last meeting of HS were elected to this meeting of HS, so citizens are satisfied with them, those who choose are members of national minorities and therefore, if they are satisfied, I don't see why this would be such an important and big topic anymore. Col. Radin is in the nine-term assembly, counterpart Bilek and Kajtazi four, colleague Lekay Prlaskaj three, Janovich is new, and SDSS has since 2003 since this election system of MPs received every three mandates. So, in this one mood, I don't know why we should be marked, not celebrated? Well, at least you have a reason to celebrate. If my party got 100% I'd celebrate. But good, if the citizens are satisfied. Now, this debate, in fact, when we look at it like that, should go through the idyllic atmosphere, and that idyll just got ruined by a colleague named Kekin who was the only one who was talking about real problems. Yes, so the fact is that in public speech they are most apostropheal by negative, when I talk about the apostrophe, I mean a part of the majority of the people, members of the Serb and Roma national minorities. Now, one of the bigger challenges of a resolute government minister not just anyone but Zoran Milanovic in terms of minority rights was to apply the provisions on the equal use of language and letter. And only someone with such a willful stubborn, desire to do something out of conviction as today's President of the Republic could risk, regardless of the special police force that was in Vukovar insisting on something he believes. So I'm so at one point that you're going to condition the entry into Sweden and Finland into NATO by reducing this threshold for the use of equal, equal languages, equal use of language and letters, but it still didn't happen. The fact is that it is the impression that members or representatives of national minorities are relatively well and correctly finding common language both with the government of the left centre and with the government of the right centre. And that might be good because it shows that in Croatia and one and the other mainstream parties take care of the minority rights, where one mainstream party seems to be easier to find common language on these ideological issues, and the other mainstream party finds common language in this so-called. financial issues, but ultimately both are legitimate. There's something I'd like to say to my colleague on the right. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has not been passed by members of national minorities. It was brought by representatives at the Croatian Parliament 2/3 of which most of those who voted I think ethnic Croats. Therefore, when we talk or talk about the rights of national minorities, rather watch us than them, if you have a problem with that. I don't mind, but I don't have a problem, I don't have a problem with it like that, I say it like that. The amendments to the Law on the Rights of National Minorities adopted between other and 2010 along with the amendments to the Constitution were also discussed and there were certain, certain polemics. It seems to me that at the time Vesna Pusic as a representative of the HNS was on this defender that HDZ did not give too much of something that shouldn't be so as to have minority support. We brought together in 2010 so the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, abolished the double right to vote for members of national minorities below 1.5% in this population. The SDP representative club has no objection to the adoption of this report for both 2019 and 2020, but given the circumstances that we are now familiar with, and were then not, which we could unfortunately read about in the black chronicle we will take note of this report. We'll propose to the assembly that he take it into consideration. I think we have also done this for some of the previous reports, and we would like to point out once again our commitment to the implementation of all articles, all letters, interaction signs and pages between the words of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and we are prepared to support its improvement in terms of this increase in the rights of members of the national minorities. I must tell my colleagues that national minorities as a collective have no obligation to the Republic of Croatia, they have individuals. And as for me on May 3rd and May 5th, I'll interrupt that, I have 20 seconds to mark something from history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106850	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. We're going to individual debates now. First individual debate, distinguished representative Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106851	Dearly beloved, here's what I think my colleague Bauk is looking for already potential allies to assemble, perhaps some new government, and he's already wearing a dowry for the national minorities in advance. But let's make a joke aside. In Croatia, 22 national minorities live on the last list of which 20 receive funding from the state budget through their minority councils. Although Croatia is a young democracy can be an example of many older democracies regarding the rights of national minorities. In particular, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities guaranteeing national minorities primarily political representation in units of local, regional self-government as well as at national level. And I think that Croatia can indeed be an example of many countries, especially because until just 20 and 7 years ago, we had a Homeland War where, unfortunately, a good part of a national minority stood up against the creation of a Croatian state. Today, however, this national minority uses all the rights that belong to them as well as other national minorities. And I often say that there is no greater democracy than in Croatia. But I also expect those national minorities and their representatives, counterpart Bauk, their representatives to respect the foundations of this country, those who sit behind me and those who sit in this Croatian Parliament as well as their representatives at local levels. Here yesterday, for example, we had the Day of the City of Vukovar where here are the members of the Serbian national minority on the last census having about 1/3 of the population, we will now see what new results will be, where they have their deputy mayor, where they have their councillors, 6 of them must have been since 19 and none of them were at the wedding ceremony of Croatian defenders in connection with the Day of the City of Vukovar and the Heavenly Protectors of Philip Jacob. I don't expect them to be at the church's mass celebration because it's Catholic worship, but I expect them to appear at the memorial cemetery and that's the least they should do and that's the indicator that you respect the community of the majority you live with and that community that gave you certain rights. This is one of the fundamental examples that everyone in this country has certain rights, but also certain obligations. Unfortunately, local representatives working in the town of Vukovar, who are in the same party in which government deputy Prime Minister Anja Simpraga was never in the memory column, nor were the other council members in the city of Vukovar at any national holiday ceremony, were they able to come and lay a crown on Statehood Day. It's a fact, it's true, and the truth hurts and it needs to hurt because it's sad. Once again, I will repeat, absolutely that national minorities should cultivate their culture, their customs, their identity and that the Croatian state should help national minorities through budget funds, but no specific items such as Novosti so-called can be financed. Popovčev Novosti how we all talk about who little criticises the foundations of this country and ridicules the military regular action of Storm with the titles "Beautiful Our Nice Burns", mocking the Croatian anthem "Oh Haubice Our Dear", etc., is that normal? So tell me, in which state is there a national minority or their institutions financed from the state budget, and then spit on that same state? Take your leave, respect the values of this country and enjoy all the benefits of this country. Nothing more is expected of you, nothing less, we all have our rights, but we all have our obligations including members of the national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106852	Thank you very much. You had one replica in 90% of your exposure, the last few sentences caused a series of replicas. Let's go in turn, dear colleague Bauk, here's your first line of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106853	I'm naive to the first sentence, it's not a question of dowry, so we would support the rights of the opposition, it's not a problem. So basically, in many of what you have mentioned falls into fundamental human rights and freedom to freedom of expression and freedom of thought and only to whom politicians are basically fit by their voters. Therefore, if they were to do something about this failure that you mentioned that does not correspond to their voters, they would punish them in the elections, and as soon as they do not do so, it is obvious that there are certain reasons why their voters do not punish them. As long as the laws of the Republic of Croatia are respected and do not question the territorial integrity of integrity and independence until then it falls into political action and freedom of expression, which is exactly what distinguishes us from non-democratic regimes. And as for celebrating the holidays, I look forward to our gathering on June 22nd in Bezovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106854	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106855	Dear colleague Bauk, I cannot agree with you in any way that a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot clearly and aloud say that the Storm was a military legitimate action. I can't agree with that. You as a lawyer You were not, okay, the Minister of Administration should know, and you know better than me the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the preamble of a constitution which clearly and loudly states that, among other things, Croatia was created in liberating legitimate military redistributive actions and today you have a member of the government who cannot say it clearly and aloud, nothing more than that. [[I'm not a lawyer.]] [[Intruding Voter: Mathematician, Mathematician]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106856	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Jeckov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106857	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavliček, I think the public should remind the public that it is 2010. was this historic encounter between Ivo Josipovic and Boris Tadic when the list of all local SDSS officials went to the memorial cemetery, of course you don't need to believe me, the pictures speak about it. As far as the traitors' news is concerned, I only hope that you do not think that traitors are, say, Boro Dežulović, Marinko Culic, Tamara Opačić, otherwise journalists of Novosti who, as far as last night, received awards imagine the Croatian Journalist Society. I'm really wondering, you're really a brave man when against yourself the seventh force in that way you want to point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106858	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106859	You didn't listen to me, I never said that the traitors' news, I didn't say, listen freely again what I said, but I said that these same news denies the foundations of the Croatian state. I stand loud and clear behind it, and I will stand. And as for what you said in the first part, it's true that the two presidents found themselves, that I think they went to Varivod and Ovcar to bow to both victims innocent, but it's also true that after that, because apparently your local officials were forced to appear there none of yours were ever again on the Ovcara but on the State of the Republic of Croatia, the state where you live. Here are colleagues from the left spectrum, I think they'd like to tell you first that it's minimum that on Statehood Day at least your local representatives show up and along with the other councilmen no matter what options they come from, they're getting married.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106860	Time. My colleague Jeckov, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106861	The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. In 238, a colleague, apparently, has a special kind of standard that we national minorities should use and work, or he would have to prescribe, that we should behave in certain situations and which events to which we should go and to which we do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106862	My colleague Jeckov, you are aware, you cannot answer, this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you are aware that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, that in fact through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this institution used the opportunity to replicate, so you have a reminder. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106863	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavliček, we all know very well that what is said in the people to argue is necessary two. For the fact that Serbian representatives did not come to celebrate Croatian holidays, Croatian dates did you ever wonder whether the Croatian majority might be responsible for it. Have you asked yourself, perhaps, that in Vukovar, there is still no respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 with a convenient formulation that is thus formally confirmed on the Council of Vukovar each year. 27 years after the Homeland War, is it not time for us to go into true reconciliation and co-existence? With constant and continuous accusations I don't think we'll get far, of course. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106864	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106865	Here's just a colleague of Jeck's to answer before that, I think you've been in politics long enough to know for yourself what's the order, which is not the order and which events you should be coming to and which ones you don't. Secondly, respected colleagues of Raukar Gamulin, you best still blame the majority Croatian people for what they did in '91. It happened in Vukovar, so I think it would be such a highlight for you at the end of it all. Unlike you, I live in Vukovar, you know, I wake up there every morning, so I go to coffee, and I talk to people, and then the weddings go by, and three fingers with Serbian flags get up, so they swear on our mother's mouth, you know, I live there, you don't live there. And don't make me smart and accuse and blame the majority of the Croatian people. You don't even know what the state of the city is. The census isn't correct. A representative of the Serb community knows that, and there are far fewer than 3.78%. They know 300 missing people weren't on that list, and they didn't die, where they are. That they entered the list Serbian national minority statistics would fall [[Intruder: Time.]] Don't get smart about what you don't know. [[Intruder: colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106866	Let's move on, the next replica, the esteemed representative, Vucimilovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106867	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with you that many and more developed democracies than ours could be seen in respecting both diversity and minority rights. We have installed in our legislation a lot of things, we have also listed the Charter of Human Rights, which is an integral part of the Lisbon Treaty, meaning from that European to the national and even lower level I think it is at a very high level. And let's turn to the future, I think we're all on this trail, but how many separate programs, separate kindergartens, separate schools help us in that sometimes in the future we don't really have co-existence, but together life in the common homeland of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106868	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106869	Here, thank you. ... the pedagogical standard, members of national minorities, have the possibility of education in their language and letter A, B and C models. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Personally, I believe that this complete separation A model applied in the area of, say, Vukovar, Eastern Slavonia may be the worst model for the future of the city I live in. I think it's pretty bad because kids are separated from kindergartens through elementary schools to high schools and live in the same city in parallel worlds and it's not good for the future of the city. I think the C model would be much more acceptable for the future of the city of Vukovar. But what's there is. The model is primarily insisted by political representatives of the Serb community in the city and surrounding places. It is their legitimate right, and will it ultimately reflect primarily the damage to their community that time will show because primarily their students, students then go to study in Novi Sad, Belgrade, and do not go to Zagreb and then stay there, but it is their decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106870	And now I'm gonna say again we could have a mul Intercultural School in Vukovar, but we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106871	We could've had Yugoslavia, but we don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106872	Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106873	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Pavliček, does not say in the Constitution that Croatia must be loved, does not say, and there is no salamit of intent that would be said in BiH. I, I think it's an absurd idea to insist on it and that someone's patriotism is measured and checked and that it's actually kind of like a yes if you don't have positive feelings, if you don't like Croatia then you're a potential one that I don't know the rebel, traitor or whatever. And yes, and especially to measure it by how many times someone was or wasn't on some markings, but I mean, let's just say, the predecessor of Mrs. Simprage, Boris Milosevic was in Knin. So, for me, it's an absolute giving of legitimacy to the military redistributive operation of the Storm. So he was there even though his family member, the civilian victim of war, was killed in the Storm. So, not as much as There must be evidence, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106874	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106875	No, I agree with you, all you have to do is respect the state in which you live. And I've lived for a while during the persecution in Germany and you respect that country, respect their holidays, so especially if you're a public figure in politics, then you should respect those holidays as in this country. So no, it would be unfortunate if one representative of a political option saw it as a proof that he loved the state if he went to Statehood Day to lay a crown. I don't think I have it here, that it's absolutely pointless to discuss it, that somehow it's in itself that you're going to go out on that day and bow down to the origin of that country, nothing more, nothing less. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106876	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Honorable Agent Radin, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106877	Three well-intentioned, the first is that I won't try to change what I said before your attitudes because I said after a certain age there's no point anymore. The second is that we are now in 1972. If we measure World War II, 1972. It's already been since 1971, just so you know the relationship is that about co-existence. The third thing I'm saying is that keeping in mind all these things is actually the time to really start, to start integrating, to start integrating because we already are in Istria.../Laughter/... to start integrating because simple, and around multilingual schools we have done so, we have done one-lingual, then the Croats go to Italian, and the Italians go to Croatian, so we have made multilingual schools. [[You said so well.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106878	Thank you, great, thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106879	I agree with you. I also think it's time for you to integrate into society and not assimilate but integrate, here I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106880	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, we have a request for a break. Here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106881	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President, so I didn't want to put you in a position to give me a heads-up, and I'd like a little on behalf of the SDP Club to look back at the presentation of colleagues, because he's opened up quite an interesting, sensitive topic that deserves a little broader reflection on the replica, from the replica. So, your situation is next, HDZ is in the coalition, they're listening to us here, they've had an exhibition on behalf of the club, and they're not involved in the debate. One part of the opposition is critical of members or members of national minorities in power, and the other part of the opposition explains the first part of the opposition that what they say is not quite so. Now that's an ideal position, an ideal position for HDZ, so, so that's this situation. But I will repeat, or human rights and freedoms, the right to freedom and expression of thought and the right to freedom of speech, and other kinds of expressions of political attitude do not require daily emphasis on loyalty to something that is an imaginary state. What the real state is is the constitution and the laws and to that every official, every official swears. I do not think that anyone who has received HS's trust in the post of Deputy Prime Minister should no longer give anything else that Prime Minister Plenkovic otherwise introduced into the political language as an interpretative statement, should not, but may agree with you in one part. A person who doesn't confirm the legitimacy of the Storm in the way you speak can't be vice president of the SDP government because those on the right would break us down because of it, but may be vice president of the HDZ government, there are no restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106882	Comrade Bauk, your break has been granted, but on the basis of Article. 293.b. We'll move on with the session. We're moving on with individual debates, next up is a colleague of Raukar Gamulin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106883	Thank you. Your Honor, first of all. 37. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is prescribed that the government submits at least once a year a report on the implementation of the constitutional law and on the spending of funds for the needs of national minorities. We have a report from '19, '20, '21. not in sight, therefore, and again and again and in this case do not comply with the legal provisions on the obligation to submit reports. Also in 2020, no report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget has been adopted, and as well as a summary report on the implementation of operational programmes for national minorities, as well as all other reports, all this is late, does not come, the laws are broken, but most of this is not disturbing. One piece of information says a lot about the position of the Serb national minority. Namely, by order of the Art. Article 9(2) of the Constitutional Law provides that members of national minorities are entitled to be printed and filled in both the language and the letter to which they are served. For example, the Italian national minority on the 2011 census, we don't have the '21s yet. about 17 thousand, I.D. 2019. 2767, 2020. 2585, and the Serb national minority that counts on the 2011 census 185 thousand, I.D. 2019. 85, and 2020. 93. These figures also clearly reflect the fear and discomfort that the Serb national minority in Croatia is living with, but according to the report and the lack of information on its rights. The information would certainly be better, as well as the affirmation of all national minorities if there were not only 1,054% on public television... and '19. 1,079% of the programme, dedicated to national minorities in 2020. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no editorial for national minorities although it is a public service obligation, some minority languages are unevenly represented in these programmes, the obligation to process national minorities in programmes for the general population prescribed by art. The 47th contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been completely ignored. The aim of the provision should be to attract a wider range of audiences through selecting or more attractive terms or broadcasting minority content in the reception process. At the end of 2020. The Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers recommends that Croatia should do more in learning minority language and promoting minority communities' language in education of public administration and media, and has warned of the lack of Cyrillic letter in municipalities and signs that mark the names of violence, which is missing in most cases. And that's how we've been at war with Cyrillic for 27 years. After the end of the Homeland War. Cyrillic is a Serbian letter, but we forget that it is also a Croatian letter. In history, the Croats used three letters, a verb, a Latin and a Cyrillic. In the Middle Ages, they were the only ones who used all those three letters. The first book printed in Croatia is Misal by the law of the Roman court printed with a verb in 483, only 29. Later, the first Croatian prayerist was printed on Cyrillic already 512, with Polish Cyrillic. Cyrillic is part of Serbian but also Croatian identity. Academic Josip Bratulic said in an interview that he had to explain to his students that Cyrillic and Croatian letters were. This should also make Croatia's citizens aware of the academics. It is unacceptable to boast, in a very narrow and foolish way, at the lack of knowledge of the Cyrillic letter as a measure of its Croatianism, by celebrating the new Minister Filipovic, a doctor of science who, according to his nominal education, should be an intellectual, and an intellectual is completely inappropriate to boast of ignorance. HAZU, to say the same in 2013, published the print of a Cyrillic prayerist from 512 and organized an international scientific gathering on the subject of Cyrillic Heritage. So it's time to finally stop fighting the Cyrillic, to accept it, so it's easier to get to the full application of constitutional law and Cyrillic to be something that connects us, not that separates us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106884	Thank you. Here's the tile up in the last seconds. Let's go in turn, first replica of my colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106885	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President of the Assembly. Comrade Raukar Gamulin, I must supplement you, this one with three letters that you Croats have listed used another historical one, which is an arbica, so in Bosnia, it was also used as an arbic. In other words, we would have more materials to expand that, and it's actually great that we should do in some way to say a happier language policy and at all understanding of language should actually go on, to that our great wealth that our language can be transcribed into even four letters of this, and actually get away from here, so there's a small one, but this might be someone's informative supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106886	It's a little dyspression. The answer to this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106887	Thank you, colleague, man learns while he's alive or forgets while he's alive and something he learned in high school. Yes, I deeply believe, and I believe that many will agree with me here that culture is something that needs to be combined, letters are something that should bring us together, letters are wealth, literature is wealth and certainly 27 years old. After the war, it's time to start doing that and affirm it primarily. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106888	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106889	I have to get up to protect Minister Filipovic, if he didn't teach the Cyrillic at school then it's more of a problem of the Croatian school system, not of him who doesn't know, I think. And as for the argument that Cyrillic is Croatian, it is not the subject of this report because it is Croatian, but because it is Serbian, and bilingual inscriptions in cities and municipalities, regardless of what language, city and municipality are working towards one of the documents of the Council of Europe does not serve the inhabitants of these cities to understand what is written there because among other things, Croatian and Serbian are very similar languages, not to say the same, but to those who come to these cities outside know that there is also someone other than members of the majority people living there and opposing bilingualism in these cities in fact opposing something that President Tudjman has spent, which is a peaceful reintegration and the fact that there is, unlike some other parts of the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106890	Thank you, time, colleague Bauk, so at least you always stick to the weather, what's the matter with you now? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106891	So, a lot of people didn't teach Cyrillic, which I think simply, I mean, I feel sorry for them because I say... When we were visiting Russia, I could read everything and so, and Mr Filipovic was very boastful of his ignorance, so I can't agree with you. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] Furthermore, that a Cyrillic as well as a Croatian letter is not the subject of this report, exactly, but the subject of this report is, is a Cyrillic and I think it is necessary to remind again that we cannot fight against the language and I am deeply convinced of it and your arguments are as always very skillful, but this time unconvincing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106892	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic, in what way is the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106893	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. - Mrs. Crescent. The honourable representative has been injured by an article. 238, repeatedly calling Minister Filipovic that he does not know the Cyrillic, and it should be the only shame for him to embarrass him that he does not know the Cyrillic, so at least two million people living in Croatia who do not know the Cyrillic, but you deliberately impute it to demean a man who is not here and you are talking about something that has absolutely nothing to do with the subject that is being discussed other than the tendency to demean the newly elected minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106894	This is how you have now used this, this institution injures the Rules of Procedure to replicate your colleague Urshi, and by warning that as this has nothing to do with the subject, but a Cyrillic letter or use, the right of national minorities to use their language and letters is the subject of, among other things, implementation and this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Now there was this one more freer remark that we often look at ourselves here in a non-competition, it's not forbidden, so I have to give you a heads-up. Please. [[Upadica Ivanovic: Thank you very much]] Let's move on, next replica, colleague Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106895	Dear MPs, I volunteered for the replica before you said the last two sentences so that you would actually just repeat what you said, the sooner we stop fighting the Cyrillic, the better we'll get, the sooner integration will be better. In some parts of Croatia, no national minority should be interpreted as who it is and what it is, people are simply burdened with it. However, in areas where there was war, where war conflicts were, of course that gap exists, and the sooner that gap is resolved, the more quality life will be ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106896	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106897	I thank my colleague Pavić. Yeah, it's actually a message from everything I wanted to say about the Cyrillic that the war with the letter won't do us any good. I am also taking the opportunity to repeat that the new Minister Filipovic is not guilty because he does not know the Cyrillic but because he boasts of his ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106898	Let's move on, next replica of my colleague Kajtazi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106899	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you and you touched me when you said the emissions of national minorities. Of course, I don't agree with the national show Prism with terms and content because the multinational programme of the Prism is essentially only followed by national minorities, and essentially events and cultural events should be for the majority population what they represent exactly national minorities and so that national minorities should have their own certain redactions so that they can show the majority population their cultural events, their cultural manifestations and all that they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106900	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106901	So I thank my colleague Kajtazi, that it really is that there is neither a nor an editorial for national minorities, but it is not respected, I will repeat the article. The 47th Treaty of the Republic of Croatia and this article have been completely ignored and what indeed for reintegration, for co-existence, for common life, for mutual respect is necessary for the national television programmes for the general population to be a much more present topic of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106902	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106903	Thank you very much. Of course they've relied on cultural topics, that's understandable in itself. What you said that academic Bratulić had to explain is that, I totally understand why he had to explain when he made up the Alejo verb in Istria is that I don't know how long I don't know, in a place where, I mean really no verb, it's one project that he invented, but I don't understand why we rely so much on, on Cyrillic whether she is and Croatian, whether she is, and that's not a Croatian Cyrillic would have a place because it's a letter of a national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106904	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106905	I completely agree with my esteemed colleague, Radin. However, I think it is important to remind the citizens of this country that Cyrillic and Croatian letters are. Simply to stop fighting it, to stop this animosity that, somewhere still exists around the Cyrillic, which in public writings, in books, in libraries, etc. I think here's what I'm gonna do again. We need to stop fighting the Cyrillic. I believe that if the Cyrillic were to be reintegrationd into Croatian society, in Croatian culture in such a way that these gaps that unfortunately still exist among certain groups, national minorities, etc. I'm sure they'd be better able to overcome each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106906	And this was all about replicas. Comrade Glavasevic, you have the honour of closing this set of individual debates, yours is the last, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106907	"Zucker Komt Zuletz" some might say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106908	I'm a genau.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106909	At the symbolic or declarative level of national minorities in Croatia have a very high level of rights, secured political representation and at least on paper in most cases a high degree of respect and enforcement of the law we are discussing today, but at lower levels than that symbolic and declarative it is not simply the case. The best proof of that can be seen regularly right here in this assembly. Thus, MPs and representatives of the Serb minority regularly receive requests from some colleagues and colleagues to prove their loyalty to Croatia, and those citizens and citizens representing themselves are painted as unfairly hidden rebels who loathe Croatia and are probably just waiting for the opportunity to take arms and wage war against it. It's incredibly unfair and deeply undemocratic, that's what I think we should say and we should speak right here in this assembly. Let's just take two examples. Boris Milosevic was a minor when the war began, his father was a Croatian defender, and his grandmother was killed in the Storm and was a civilian victim of war. Anya Shimpraga, who sits here today, is 3 years old. I'm younger than I am. As a child, she experienced a destiny that no child should experience, refugee, and loss of home and loss of childhood. Both Anja and Boris work with their political engagements not only for the sake of the Serb minority but also for the whole of Croatia, and despite taking oaths both as representatives and as members of the government and despite their lives and fates they experience incredible insults and questioning of their patriotism, constantly. It's just the tip of the iceberg, of course. If people like Anja or Boris are experiencing such humiliations, you can only imagine what other members and members of national minorities are experiencing, not only Serbian but also others. We could hear about it both from fellow Radin and from fellow Keatazi in their discussions. Croatia has a problem because it is not only when the war ended in communities like Vukovar that worked to face the past because very often the mainstream politicians, and not only those from the margin of political spectrum, regularly rode on nationalist rhetoric and hate speech directed against Serbs, Roma and other minorities. That's why over 30 years since the start of the war, no Serbian or Serbian are and will be acceptable to some of our colleagues and colleagues, but they are there with those like me who are not good enough Croatians because we are talking about this, because we are stopping to defend the civilian victims of the war, because we understand that war is evil and we say this, we are their ideal internal enemies. Now, and this problem of searching for internal enemies, this problem of conflicts like this is not only dealt with by law, it is solved by dialogue within the community and longtime hired work from all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106910	Thank you, too. You have one replica, colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106911	You noticed the question of facing the past and you mentioned the environment I came from. Do you remember a colleague named Glavasevic who was the alleged, alleged reason for setting up a tent outside your former ministry? Your statement saying there's no PTSD somewhere that he's got it somewhere. So there was, therefore, not only that not one group of politicians would not be acceptable or "there is no good Serb". There is no good nor a Croat if not by their measure, there was not enough months in Fred Matic's camp or generally known what happened to your family, they kept adding three letters to my name, hence it is not easy sometimes to be a Croat with such, let alone a Serb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106912	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106913	Thank you. Yeah, I don't really know what else to add to what you said because it's a fact and that's what I refer to. The problem is that there are not enough good Croats for some and that patriotism is measured all the time, and as painful as it is for some democracy, democracy, democratic society doesn't ask anyone to love the state they live in, it doesn't ask anyone to go on their anniversary, if they don't want to, or to have any positive feelings for her. As far as I'm concerned, I mean, it's gonna sound rough, but I can hate it for the state. What matters to the state is they don't take weapons, they don't try to bring down constitutional law, period. That's what some people have to learn to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106914	You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on. A colleague, Sandra Bencic, will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club final. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106915	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers, respected representatives of institutions. I will talk about one more aspect, especially with regard to the Roma national minority, and it also concerns what is the subject of this report, which is actually the living conditions and quality of the lives of our national minorities and where the needs for concrete investments, concrete investments, and what I think should be defined by the national budget and the NPOO and eu funds, are not small but in concrete infrastructure projects. 2018 A comprehensive multi-metodological survey of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, covering 1550 Roma households in the country and nearly 300 representatives of all relevant institutions, civil society organisations and local activists, has been published. This research has shown in the area of education, which to some extent can provide for such social mobility and is, in fact, crucial for social mobility and Roma, but also for all others, it has shown that the situation cannot be considered good even though there has been progress in the last 10 years, so some progress is seen. My colleagues and colleagues, only a third of Roma children attend preschool education. Preschool education and education which is a key prerequisite behind socialization and the development of skills at an early age for all children in Croatia. For Roma children, it is especially important because some of them do not speak Croatian and just preschool education is essential for learning Croatian language and later learning in the education system. Almost all children, therefore, have attended primary school between 7 and 14 years of age, which is a significant improvement compared to previous periods, but there are also certain problems still in place every fifth Roma child attends a class exclusively attended by Roma, which, according to an earlier European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Orshosh and others against Croatia, can be considered discrimination or concrete segregation. Looking at the data regarding high school attendance, however, the situation is getting worse, only 31% of young people aged 15 to 18 are attending high school, although the Ministry of Science and Education and individual units of local and regional self-government grant scholarships for secondary school education, and I can say that for this school year, the City of Zagreb has awarded a total of 86 scholarships to the Roma national minority, 72 for secondary school students and 14 scholarships for students, with a secondary scholarship of 2,700 kuna, while the scholarship for students is 3,800 kuna per month. When we compare this to a state scholarship for college, I have to say, it's 1,300 kuna, so it's still some financial support that allows students to live on their own. I would also like to say that the inability to employ Roma is, therefore, when one comes to the labour market because of discrimination most often, but also the low degree of education causes more than half of Roma households to have a monthly income of less than 3,000 kunas, households, not persons. The average income of Roma households is only 2.670 kuna or 611 kuna per household member, people, 611 kuna per household member. 80% of households cannot afford any unexpected cost, such as buying a new refrigerator, and in 48% of Roma households at least one member went to bed hungry in the week before the survey. So 73% of Roma households tested had no sewers, half had no toilets in the house or apartment as well as a bathroom with bath or shower, and 43% had no water obtained from the plumbing. Claims that today every tailor of his destiny may be valid for those layers of society that have enough social and economic capital, to enjoy the benefits of freedom of choice, but in the case of particularly deprivileged groups long-term discrimination in this society, it is a delusion that leads us to a false lead and makes it impossible for us to face these problems truly as a society and to invest where we need to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106916	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Zeljko Pavić will speak finally on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106917	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd just like to go back a little bit on the subject, but this is about whether the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia is being implemented or not. I believe that we can all conclude that this law is fully implemented, and the problems that are happening to us on the ground these problems should be solved by their representatives, they have been given a mandate, they have been given a mandate and they need to talk to them and draw attention to the problems of these minorities in Croatia. How many times did our SDP colleague Maric talk about Roma problems in Međimurje? Not once, she spoke many times. Why? Because they have problems with the Roma and are trying to solve these problems together with minority representatives in Međimurje. So if every representative of these minorities starts doing their job the right way then we won't have any problems or problems will be smaller. It is not enough just to take the funds out of the budget and then finger in ear and sing further, but these funds should be spent purposely in the way needed for these minorities. It will be easier to integrate Roma in Međimurje into the community if they graduate from schools, if it will be more frequent to continue, if they will later be enrolled in high schools, universities etc., etc. We have worse examples of your colleagues from your community who are employed in high places in Međimurje who are doing excellent work, but they have been educated. However, if absolutely nothing is done, then we cannot expect that regardless of the funds spent or whatever the state is doing, something will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106918	Thank you. Let's move on, my colleague Furio Radin will speak finally on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106919	As you can usually say, I didn't mean to speak, but she encouraged me now that he's gone like the Bull, now there's no more, the question of love. You see how interesting that is. The first question of love is always the people here who have endured with us all this time, because they haven't spoken, they just listened to us, so I thank them. And now, what's said before, what Sinisha said before, love for a certain state must or should not have. I go further, you don't have to have love for any country in the world, you don't have to have love for any people in the world. There's a saying in Italian.../Speaker speaks Italian./... so people, people, people are individuals. I've got this friend, I've got you as a friend, I've got Big as a friend, Emile as a friend, I'm not gonna name Sandra right now, it's love for people, love for the people, love for the states is one thing I don't feel as bad as you do, Bohannon, I've called you before Bohannon. And I'll end up with that, you know that I belong to that group that's always trying to get the name "God and Croats" off, right? Well, let me show you that we can already go to better things, for example. If we hear "God and Croats" we'll be better off. "God and Croats" is better than "God and Croats" is yes, and certain Croats or certain Croats are even better. Have friends in people, and countries and nations as they say will pass as all countries have passed and all the nations in the history of many countries and many peoples in history have so far become new. People are important, and countries I said not only do you not have to, you have to respect the state, not only do you not have to love your country but no country, but it's nice to have people you love, and that's the only message I have to give.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106920	Thank you. Finally, we came to the assembly to talk about love. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives will finally speak to counterpart Veljko Kajtazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106921	Thank you. I didn't mean to pick up, but final colleague Sandra and colleagues Pavic, colleagues of Pavic, touched me to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106922	Please, colleagues, I know you're in love now, but don't be jealous now, you'll have to do this later, let's just let this one end this, just a little more peace and patience, thank you. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106923	I'm glad that colleague Sandra mentioned the research that the Office of Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is doing right now, and I remember from the very beginning that Sandra was at the presentation and then at the moment when they were trying to do this research without members of the Roma community. All these years since the Roma community's been here, they've been here until 11 years ago. They were invisible, today is a very different situation, today the Roma are visible and that is what is very important and I am taking the opportunity to thank this very government. From 2016 to 2016 headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the Roma are visible. We've done a lot of things, not enough, but a lot's been done. You don't need to stop at that, but also what you mentioned in the research itself is true, but one part of the guilt is exactly JLS. Romi has several strategic documents since 2003. when we had both a national programme and a decade and a national strategy, and now we have a national plan that was adopted last year that will last from 2021 to 2027. That's not enough if JLS don't come up with their action plans. In particular, in Međimurje no one, no city, no municipality has adopted action plans, and now I wonder how they will help the Roma community, and only in Međimurje I have about 14 large settlements, settlements are so large that they may be bigger than our municipalities, settlements more than 2,500 inhabitants, settlements that do not have any infrastructure, but that we are not talking about cultural content. I'm just wondering all this time that the JLS have been doing all these years. I see I've got a little bit, so I'll cut it short. Given that we just had a very important meeting today, we see back a few years in all the schools in Međimurje, classes are segregated. I don't know which way or why they allow it. The children of the majority are being printed, changing residences just to be out of town. On the other hand today I have a meeting with representatives of the Međimurje County where they want to build an area school within the Roma settlement. I wonder how the question of the Roma community will be dealt with. We must all stand on it, we must not allow such a thing because all the time in Međimurje County is called the whole Roma community, for everything that's going on up there, it doesn't matter if it was made by a member of the Roma community from one village or another, but it's called the whole Roma community, and you can imagine then what it is like for these other Roma who are in other counties. Why is it I don't know, and I've never heard of positive examples being shown in some way. You have very good examples, you mentioned earlier that there are honest Roma in the County of Međimurje, there are all honest only once we haven't given them a chance, we never gave them a chance to show not one part, but all the honest Roma are there, to survive such a great nation as the Roma community is very difficult. We have in public institutions, today the mayor tells me here we hired a driver today and we hired a nurse, is that, is that our result, and there are Roma more than 70, why do they not have a JLS permanent member of the Roma community, and there we have more than 12 thousand Roma, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106924	Thank you, fellow Kajtazi. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Pavić, in what way is the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106925	Art. 238, Mr. Kajtazi said what I didn't say, at least I hope I didn't say there were places in Međimurje honest Roma, I thought I said there were educated Roma, educated Roma who had been excluded from the community, and other than that if you had places or settlements of 2500 inhabitants, so I believe that people can come to the city council or the municipal council and there have some influence there with 2500 votes... In such a small place, you have not one there of this president, you have two, three. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106926	Comrade Pavić ok, this was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure but a classic replica, you have a warning and we have exhausted all the registered speakers on behalf of the clubs. Do you want to see Mrs. Crescent? Deputy Prime Minister take the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106927	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, at the end of today's debate, I would like to thank you for your constructive dialogue and suggestions, however this may have seemed to you as we started from the beginning. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is a key act of protection and promotion of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia and as such deserves a serious argument aimed at strengthening the protection of the fundamental rights of all minority communities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2020-2020 programme found that the government would continue to promote the culture of tolerance, consistently implement the rule of law and the rights of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law. The adoption of operational programmes of national minorities for the period 2020, 2021-2024, operationalised the government's focus towards full achievement of all the rights laid down by the constitutional law. I expect that we will soon, and as colleagues announce, we can also believe it in this place to discuss and a report on the implementation of the constitutional law for 2021 which we have also heard a lot about here since the document is in the final alignment phase with the relevant authorities. I point out that this year we mark 20 years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I believe that we will in a decent way mark this anniversary that is not only important for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia but also for the overall demographic development of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, since you've all been taking the most of it today and your personal, personal views however you allow me to say something. In recent days, hate spills, impatience sent to me through social networks, portals and everything else that makes up the media space in our country I have tried to understand and I must admit that I understand anyone who wrote anything and in any way. It's human to sin, human to not know, human not to know, but it's human to continue to work. And I want to tell you here from this pay phone how I've worked so far and acted like a man so that it will continue to be and that I am the vice president of the government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I feel once again that there is faith for our country, and I stress our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106928	Thank you, stay a little longer, you have two replicas, first colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106929	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here's even though you've now had this last exhibit of yours, perhaps in one other direction, of course, that I don't want to resort to these debates that talked more about love or not love than not to say hate or anything, and that's why I didn't want to get involved until now. However, what I would like to point out, and I couldn't replicate to Mr. Kajtazi, so since you present you in your full national minority presentation, as you comment on the debates of the MPs here specifically from Zagreb from the green-left bloc, from We can which advocate greater rights specifically of the Roma national minority. As Minister, I am very well-acquainted here and I agree that local communities do nothing or almost very little, and Tomašević has just abolished funds for Roma kindergarten. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106930	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106931	I thank the distinguished MPs, so every club here today could speak its mind. It is not up to me to comment individually now, it is up to me to implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's policy and that when it comes to the rights of national minorities to be as strong as possible, as best as possible and that, at the next presentation of the Implementation Report, the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we will all be more satisfied with the results that we may be presenting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106932	Thank you and another replica of my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106933	Thank you. First, my fellow Shimpraga just to say that I'm sorry for the hate speech you must be experiencing these days, but I know that your values as well as our values go in the other direction, which is to build, build a society of communities not only tolerances to tolerate each other is not enough but to really respect each other and live together. But here's when my colleague Murganic said something like this after Mr. Keatazi's speech, so I think you, do you understand anything about integration? Roma kindergarten, Roma schools, so we need joint kindergartens and joint schools, not segregated kindergartens and segregated schools. We are finally in Zagreb after 20 years of your milking this city and you have not invested in kindergartens, you have finally allocated some money for kindergartens, 4 will be built this year, 8 more next, by 2025 more than 20 new kindergartens, primary schools will be built and two high school. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You haven't done anything for 10 years. And you're talking about segregation instead of encouraging integration. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106934	Comrade Bencic, thank you. And now we've got a breach from my colleague Murganic's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106935	Look, I can't be offended by one Sandra Bencic, her speech style is whether I have the brains or not. In my work on this particular population, I've had a lot of experience in work and results, so you talk to those I've been taking, helping and working with, local self-government units are moving burdens to the state because that's the case. It's easier for you. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you've abolished the funds. for all associations even for Roma associations. [[Intruder: Coliother Murganić, please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106936	So you've exceeded your time, you haven't called in the article, you've used the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, and I have to tell you a reminder that I'm sorry that I thought we'd end up in this, in this beautiful atmosphere where we were up until a few minutes ago, love, respect, tolerance... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bencic. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106937	Thank you. Injury of Article 238 by my colleague Murganic. So, fellow Members Murganic, I will again appeal to not only you, but HDZ if you stand behind your national strategies and plans then read the meaning of certain concepts. What integration means, what it means to fight segregation and ask the European Commission why it no longer gives money to infrastructure separate The settlements you built neatly and why not give money [[Intruder Voter: Time.]] for separate kindergartens and schools [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Because segregation is no longer allowed. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106938	My colleagues Bencic and you've exceeded your time, okay, you've called on the article, but the same thing you've used to break the rules of procedure as a replica you have a warning. And now you fellow Shimpraga seem to have a reply to the replica, the replica of my colleague Bencic, right, if you still remember what the replica was before these injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106939	Thank you. I'm just going to take the opportunity to finally tell everyone that those at the local, regional level of the state, each of us, of course, will make the most of it and try to achieve all the minority rights that are laid down under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-04-0.u106940	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you to all the representatives of the ministry, the government. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 4:13 p.m.
