ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97794	Honorable MPs and MPs good morning. Before we start working on the basis of an article. 247. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure that we conduct a joint discussion on the items 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda provided for today. These are the Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of 2020, the Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021 and the Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2022. Do you agree with the proposal? Thank you very much. So we're going to have a united debate on these points. Now we move on to: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 260. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Before I give my word to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric, we have several requests for a break, first order of business for fellow Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97795	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. We are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to point out once again that we agree with the proposed measures to protect our citizens' standards and further impediment to price growth, but the question is why are we only discussing this law today, why was this law not on the parliamentary benches at the end of February and why did it not take effect in early March? In fact, the government's decision was half-February, so why is it waiting so long? If you want to help our fellow citizens, then help them now. Moreover, I would also like to express my concern that, despite the reduction of VAT on both 13 and 5%, we are afraid that this effect will not be felt by our citizens because there has been an additional market disturbance, both food products and energy products due to the Ukrainian crisis, and we fear that individuals will be caught in murky precisely because of all this, and their final product will be identical or will not be reduced by this amount that reduces VAT, or that our citizens will not feel this reduction on their home budgets, and therefore it is very important that these anomalies are completely eradicated in order to get as little as possible, and that indeed, that citizens would feel this VAT reduction at the price of energy products both on their home budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97796	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97797	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Prime Minister. Fighting inflation must be our priority because it is a struggle to preserve the standards of Croatian citizens, and that is precisely why I am looking for this pause on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in order to point out once again that we would also invite the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister to respond to some things. The fight for economic security is what we must and can do, with the fight for security from threats, with the help of our friends in Ukraine who are suffering a terrible aggression, we must also take care of the preservation of the standards of Croatian citizens. And that's why we're discussing today a government proposal that goes in the right direction and that's why we support it. But despite the fact that he's going in the right direction, he's late and the fact is he's not enough. In addition to the measures provided for in this proposal, a number of other measures need to be introduced. We have proposed from the SDP only some such as changing the way pensions are coordinated, changing the way VAT is calculated on fuel excise duties, expanding the circulation of vouchers. In addition, the time has come for us to start talking about changing the way in which we give incentives to economies. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to listen to Mr Gentilloni, the EU's economy commissioner, and he announced that at EU level it is moving towards accepting the fact that these exceptional circumstances must affect the change in economic incentives policy. My question to you, Deputy Prime Minister, are you familiar with this fact, whether you are ready for it and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing to ensure that our entrepreneurs in the new EU policy can work in these times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97798	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97799	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to consult on what the government is proposing. Of course, we'll support every tax discharge and that's part of our policy, that's what we advocate. But we also want to remind the public that as early as September last year we collected signatures and brought Governor Vujčić here to HS in order to warn the ruling problems that are coming, the problems of inflation, the rise in prices that are not only caused by this Russian aggression on Ukraine but which are the consequences of the measures we have witnessed in the past 2 years, meaning closures, lockdowns, printing money, means within the EU, but also in the United States, and only now are we facing the consequences of this Russian aggression. We called on the government to take urgent steps, but here we are, only now, actually, having certain measures here in front of us on the parliamentary benches and what we cannot therefore accept is this slow government reaction, but also insufficient measures. Again from this place we want to appeal and call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to significantly reduce excise duties and give up this part that goes for roads within the price paid by Croatian citizens for fuel. This blow is unsustainable and the government needed much earlier and much stronger and much more significant intervention, but not in a way that gives something but to give up what it takes out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97800	Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97801	Dearly respected, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to warn that measures to reduce VAT on food are not the ones to obtain the expected results. We already had that once in 2018 when VAT on meat and certain products was cheap. It's shrinking, but the food's not cheap, it's picking up. What's gonna happen? Foreign trade chains will show a week of action as these products are cheap, after which these products will go to heaven and will again be more expensive for the citizens. And you ministers will be responsible for pushing millions of kunas back into the pocket of the owners of foreign trade chains as you did in 2018. Then it was about 2 billion kunas that you directly favored with foreign trade chains. But one measure that took effect was the 2013 measure, which is the reduction of value added tax at a 10% rate at the time, today it is 13% for catering. At that time, the rate increased the tax on value added tax in dual catering. Investments in catering were doubled and employment increased by 50%. This measure, a 13% catering tax today would allow the caterers to live more definitely because of a crisis that is approaching, especially because of the effects of the pandemic they still feel and especially because of the rise in energy prices as well as other price increases, so general inflation. And therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we will propose an amendment that requires a reduction of VAT to the catering industry to 13% simply to allow the hosts or the tourism sector in Croatia to breathe easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97802	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97803	Thank you. First of all, to say that the reduction in VAT, and even now mentioned by counterpart Bernardic did not win the goal, and very often we have examples, and even in this one that is now isolated, that actually lowering VAT does not mean lowering prices at all. The reduction of VAT also means less income in the national register, so it is extremely important that VAT reduction is targeted at those products that are necessary for life. We are therefore wondering why the reduction of VAT for menstrual supplies is not also included here, this is something that is really necessary and it is unclear why it is left behind in this reduction. Furthermore, when we talk about reducing VAT on fuel and reducing fuel costs, yesterday we submitted a proposal, meaning one conclusion that we believe at this point the government could urinate and react in a way that means increased fuel prices will also mean increased charge of the cashier via VAT, and we know that many in this situation will actually stop using their own personal transport. If we consider that the gas tank is about 600 to 800 kuna, and that somewhere the media pay is just a little higher than 6,000 kuna, many people will actually decide that where there is a public transport, they give up their personal transportation and move on to public transport. That is why we have worked hard and sought the conclusion that the government commits to increasing these new revenues to finance public transport. It is unacceptable to reduce the number of tram lines in this situation at the moment is indeed an opportunity to turn to what we heard, to those promises to move towards strengthening public transport and one-time Retirement fee means [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And we welcome these vouchers, but we should be... [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Peović.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97804	Comrade Peovic, thank you very much. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97805	Article 238 was injured because my colleague, Peovic, referred to me instead of taking a break. So, colleagues Peovic, first of all, don't tell the truth, second of all, you're not informed, and third of all you don't deal with facts. The 2013 VAT reduction has led to double the VAT collection, double the investment and up to 50% the employment rate. So when you speak in the assembly, first inform yourself, read something, do some analysis, and then speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97806	You get a warning from your colleague Bernardic. Let's move on, colleague of the Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97807	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, when a little over two years ago a pandemic took off about the crown and when we called it a new normal no one knew what this new normal meant, and today we have a situation where not only this crown that caused the really terrible major disturbances we have a war in Europe that we have to call the right name is war in Europe. What is definitely expected of this government and is expected of us all, and that is a step in one direction to see what and how to do. So what we have several topics, one topic is the energy problem, the problem that we really have the possibility of continuous energy delivery and that their amount or prices be acceptable to our citizens. The second topic is the problem of food, so the self-sufficiency of one country is about food, and it's so hot, it's convenient to say that these two years we're all talking, but let's see what measures we have. And there's this VAT system. And the third thing we need to take care of, which is to allow the economy to work. To provide them with a series of measures that will give them opportunity and wind in the back because there will be nothing without it. Without it, we will only look at what changes are and what statistics are as chroniclers of time. We also welcome these measures, which are also related to the reduction of individual VAT rates. I have to admit that I would personally prefer that VAT on menstrual supplies is 5%, not 13%, and in that sense I would also give an amendment because I think this is the time. But what we need to take care of is we need to take care of the whole set of measures we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97808	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97809	Thank you very much. Your Honor, your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I seek a break to further determine the facts about how the government worked, what it did and what it offered as solutions. It is more than evident that this law is being passed at the right time, as well as all those who have been brought from 2016 to here where the government has listened to everything that is happening, asked for solutions, the Ministry of Finance found solutions about the reduction and the income tax and taxes on profits and various contributions. There was also a reduction in VAT on electricity, municipal services, etc. So at the right time, it's always been a response, and in addition to that, public finances have stabilized, and we have exactly what we have, so the possibility that we can finance in a very cheap way all of the needs that have come up, and unfortunately these are both earthquakes and covid. Let us not forget that more than 40 billion kunas have been spent and some of the revenues of the state budget have been reduced precisely for the sake of the covid which the government has already amortised towards both citizens and entrepreneurs. Therefore, when we talk about this set of laws, we can also say this law, that it is indeed timely to help the public overcome these crises which are also this crisis of the collection of energy that is actually external and caused by the factors. Therefore, we must be very objective and very realistic and look at it completely and confirm this once again that this is a timely and quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97810	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97811	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia in order to point out that, of course, we always strongly support all the activities that help our citizens live better, better quality to dissipate them, no matter how much talk about Croatia's taxes falling through some reforms, the tax bite, and the minister will know what I'm talking about is getting bigger and bigger. The VAT in the Republic of Croatia is not some kind of lump sum, but rather something as a percentage is determined on some basis. We live in a country that's 2008. Let's say she paid 9.75 kuna for a liter of fuel, we live in a country where she was in 2012. I paid 10.77 kuna for a liter of fuel, so it's basically the one that, through the increase, turns into something that's a good cake for the state. And when the state says they're giving up something, it's actually giving up almost nothing in some real amount that we end up getting at the reckoning. When real reforms are done, such as working in Macedonia, then fuel prices fall, there the fuel price has fallen. She didn't fall in with us. We are and we must recognise this country which is not energy independent, we are here thanks to the left we sold our largest oil company, and thanks to HDZ we have transferred it to... management rights even though they do not have a majority package and that is the fact. And the Croatian citizen now believes, especially in the border areas, that it is very good for him to go tank or pour fuel into Hungary where it is cheaper four kunas. However, here is a notice for you and the public Hungarians only allow you to pour 10 to 20 liters, after which you do not, thus being protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97812	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Lerotić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97813	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club to consult again on this bill and we will certainly support every discharge from our citizens, our entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, however, every time we see our Minister Maric here, we know that the water has reached the throat and that he is trying to do some magic by solving certain problems that do not actually come from the Ministry of Finance. They come from some other resistors that are completely unsustainable. We're talking here today about a bill that's going to hit the state budget of 2.1 billion kunas, and we're not talking about debts to large-scale drug companies that grow 4 billion kunas every year. When are we finally going to see Minister Beros and solve these problems here? When we see here solving the problem of the pension system where we have 1.23 workers on a pensioner, a completely unsustainable pension system. When we are serious, courageously solving these problems, then and the expenditure side of the budget, then perhaps we will finally have room for a serious tax discharge both for our citizens and for our entrepreneurs. Until then, these are unfortunately only fire-fighting solutions for which they are first late, and the second question is how much help our citizens will receive, especially when we know that the inflation rate was 2.6% in February, and in a year the price of food and transport has increased over 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97814	Now it's my friend Bartulica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97815	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. My dear Minister, I must again regrettably conclude that this is too little too late. Therefore, it is not disputed that the burden should be reduced and it is good that the government has finally decided on many products to reduce VAT, but we see a problem in what the government is actually reacting and is only doing something when it absolutely has to and there is no more room to postpone. What kind of economic vision does your government offer? In fact, we see a delay in years of key reforms, nothing is done, and I will repeat that the share of the total state in our GDP is too high, too high, and this suggests that you believe that the government, that bureaucracy can manage our lives well, can stimulate economic growth by spending and so on. The question here must be raised as to how the money of the state budget is actually spent because it serves economic development or we are standing in place. Unfortunately, the data is quite clear, Croatia is losing track of others who have responded long before, so we can welcome these measures, but we should say that other countries have spent much earlier on this and decided to do something concrete. Therefore, we are late again and in no way will this government be in front of the curve, we are always at the bottom of the curve, always waiting too long, and then in some ways too few citizens feel certain measures because there is no overall vision. So again, I appeal to reduce wherever public spending and the share of the state in the real economy can be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97816	Thank you all. Is anyone else picking up? And we'll do the replicas later, we'll take a break by 10 o'clock and 10 minutes. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:11 AM]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, so I will now call on Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Maric to explain the final bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97818	Thank you well-respected President HS, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as always glad to be with you, this is already quite a regular practice of tax laws, this time there are little different circumstances than we have in recent years and in the circles of tax reform. Allow me in this time that I have to refer to myself on one side and to a segment that has so far been created as an introduction to these measures and in some way a package of everything that is related to VAT. I will try to refer and how successful I am at your comments, there have been very useful comments or questions in the final and, of course, present the very changes that are part of the government's package that was presented some time ago regarding the measures that should mitigate the effects of inflation on the price increases of certain segments of our consumption, primarily energy and food, and on the standard of living for our citizens and in general on the functioning of the Croatian economy. Otherwise, as far as these opening words are concerned, here are just a few details. I believe there will be plenty of numbers and statistics in the replicas as well. So at this point, or at 2021. a total of 157,616 VAT debtors. We have watched and followed this trend since the first round of tax reform there since 2017. And it is visible from one side at the beginning of the slight fall of the bounds. Let me remind you that one of the first measures was to raise the threshold for entering the VAT system from 230,000 to 300,000. This, of course, had, in itself, been an effect of a certain reduction, but then, of course, other changes, and, of course, the overall economic circumstances that led to a better budget filling through tax discharges. In those good years, we had these very clear examples in countless segments of the tax system that with reduced rates and tax redundancies that we actually expanded the tax base and had and of course a positive return effect on the budget, but you know very well and that citizens also know very well that the purpose of tax changes was not to fill the budget but to naturally encourage and stimulate the economy, or to raise the salary of living standards. Otherwise, as regards certain changes in the VAT system, I would also point out here that the element that has been taken into account in relation to the collected in terms of this VAT mode is very often in both HS and in some previous discussions of ours was the subject of how it should be on the sole charge of these fees, not according to the calculation, which, of course, we also have a framework concerning European directives and we have, on several occasions, used that framework and raised that threshold when and to what level the option can be used, so the option is not mandatory, so first there were up to 3 million, we are in tax changes first on 7.5, and then in covid and up to 15 million kuna thresholds, all those who are able to rule out whether they want to enter the VAT system on the billing or charge, but again, when charged and charged. Now that you're looking at this trend, we can actually always say there are different comments about whether this increase is below or above expectations, what is generally a reflection of it, but mostly about legal persons somewhere around 20,900, not about but exactly 20,924 legal persons are at the rate of charge, just like with respect to natural persons 41,001 people who are charged, all others are regardless of whether they were accounting for VAT per month or three months on the billable fee. Otherwise, as far as the rate is concerned, this is what the citizens are most interested in, and our debate will be the most, I am sure to most of all lead in that part, so in that first round of tax reform from 25 to 13 the rate of VAT on children's car seats and the supply of electricity, public service to collect mixed municipal waste, urns, nuts, seedlings and seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, and other agrochemical products, animal food other than pet food. I think that's when we sent a clear message. So, as far as electricity is going down, that's one of the few categories, that's where I refer to one of the remarks in the explanation of the breaks where we could really see that the reduction in VAT rates led to a drop in the price of that service. In other categories for of course very understandable reasons, but we'll explain it on several occasions, I'm sure in replicas too, this is not always a guarantee because tax policy is ultimately what I like to say many times is not the one that can solve all our problems, but it contributes to some kind of contribution. On the other hand, on the other hand, the food preparation and the provision of services or white sugar in terms of health elements were then returned to that rate of 25, in the meantime you also know that we have reduced ourselves as regards the hospitality of the preparation and service of food in and outside the catering facilities, apropo notes or explanations of the break previously from the esteemed representative Bernardić, so even when the reduced rate of 10% was marked and applied only to consumption in the facility, catering or to take and carry with you, is not as such covered, we put it on the same. However, as regards drinks, any non-alcoholic or alcoholic, they are at a rate of 25. So to explain to citizens in general once again, if we look at colloquial tourism, tourism sector, complete accommodation and all related accommodation is at 13, the complete food and food preparation and service is at 13, the only thing not in that catering part are drinks. Then, of course, a more significant change came shortly before the crown of the crisis, not on the net, but a good year before 2019.When this whole segment that will be the subject of my part of the exhibition and I believe your replicas was first reduced from 25 to 13 and there was logic there I would say very clearly how we started with the inputs in agricultural production there we kind of circled the story with fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs and so forth that in some way we framed that whole cycle of agricultural production. As for the total effects until then, all these tax changes in several circles then we calculated that of the total over 10 billion tax discharges, I repeat again as last week when we spoke of the euro, the Law on the Euro, and we touched both the change in the excise system and similar, the static method, so if nothing happens, does not change so much the effect and value and importance of reducing tax rates. So, all these rounds of tax reform so far, up to today's proposal somewhere around 3 billion kuna. Now, we have put this law in the process as part of the government's integrated package of measures, which the government has presented. First, at a press conference, and then, of course, when all possible conditions were met, because this is all about legal changes, there have been a lot of measures that have been in the area of sublegal acts both governments and individual resolutions, but when we frame it together and surround it, the package is now worth nearly 5 billion kuna. I will also refer to the esteemed Greek representative who mentioned, among other things, the Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr Paolo Gentilloni, and I was present at that meeting Monday and Tuesday and we had a very good debate where we referred among other things and to all the measures that some member states have put into office. It wasn't just a theme of fuel, believe me. Among other things, it's clear here now, without the intention that something of this, I stress my intervention, but since you have the Prime Minister here, the report from the European Council, I can also give and take the opportunity with the Council of Finance. I was one of those ministers that we have potentiated the topic with energy and food as an extremely important category, which perhaps in this first step, given the first price of electricity, gas, and now fuel may not be in the first place, but it is really important and therefore these measures we put on were not so visible among other countries. In fact, this package when you look at and its financial weight actually comes to the very top when you compare it with other Member States. I will dare say even with regard to those who are currently on election cycles, just to be clear. As far as your specific observations are concerned, it is quite in place, we rarely have meetings, but we also have a Commissioner Westager who is in charge of the competition and precisely on this topic that you have apostrophe we have had a good debate because the European Commission is working on something here today that might be similar to the temporary framework of the Temporary Framework that was in office and is still related to the Covid pandemic by June of this year. By similar logic of things, therefore, we all know well, so many of us that both the businessmen and the citizens suffer and directly, but also indirect damage from all of this happening, mainly and price growth, and of course that the idea of agreeing on a horizontal solution or approach that would put the country in a position to function in some way whether or not, and the remark was one that I also agreed with that, at this point and these circumstances, we have a rather uncoordinated full approach. We can tell a zone like this from every country or country. Even if we look at everything together, there's no big difference. It reaches out more or less for similar measures, as is the government in the package of measures. Therefore, on the one hand, the expansion of the Voucher segment of the existing one which was for electricity and including gas, expanding the coverage of users at the same time, giving certain types of incentives that the gas prices that according to certain calculations from the ministry and the competent institutions actually implicated the increase in gas of 1.4 for the citizens of 79%, unfortunately they well know that they have already manifested and materialised it. At the same time, rising electricity prices. So the idea of these measures was through this, let's say, a set of different activities to affect mitigation. We cannot fully neutralize price increases, but we can ease it as such. And these vouchers and these support for both distributors, suppliers for both citizens, so for this, entrepreneurs are in that direction. And, of course, we are taking care of and taking care of the most socially vulnerable groups of the population, and so, among other things, similar to the model that they had support for pensioners in Covid, as well as now support for, one-timely, the measure itself and the settlement of accounts and, of course, the tax part of both the VAT and the VAT law, and the one that is, has its integral place or we can say so and the foothold in everything. So, when we look at the rise in energy prices, inflationary pressures and certain difficult business of the economic sector, but of course the most favourable price to the standard of citizens, that is why we propose these changes. So, in the shortest lines as far as tax rates are concerned. Taxation with VAT at 5% on natural gas deliveries during the period, pardon, from 1 April of this year to 31 March of the following year. This means the transitional period of one year, after which the gas will be the same as the current at the rate of 13. I'll immediately refer to some notes from the explanation, about the time component. As much of the circumstances as they are and have been sought and ultimately won, normally we will not fully agree, we need to know, however, that, regardless of the circumstances, certain things must be respected because we appreciate, of course, the readiness of the Croatian Parliament to say in this law, we have an emergency procedure immediately, that we have two united readings immediately. You know that we have been in public consultation as soon as possible this time, but at the same time we must specifically ask for the EU's permission at the same time. So that's all the procedure that involves, among other things, a certain time frame. So all this together as such is about gas. On the other hand, very important, I will now read, there are a lot of categories that very often challenge small and not to say and laugh because I will read exactly everything that is defined by the law itself to go from 13 to 5%. So, it's baby food, edible oils and fats, delivery of live animals, delivery of fresh or chilled meat and edible clown products, delivery of fresh or chilled sausages and similar products from meat, delivery of live fish and fresh or chilled fish, crabs, mollusks and other aquatic meats, delivery of fresh or chilled vegetables, roots and gourds, delivery of fresh and dried fruit and nuts, delivery of fresh eggs in shell, seedlings and seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, food for concerts and tickets from 25 to 5 direct butter, margarine, then I'll get to other categories. To simplify all of what I said, a complete segment of food products currently going to 13% go to 5, and we add butter and margarine that go directly from 25 to 5. There are several other categories in the changes, so sports and cultural events both from 13% to 5% and the respected representative Peovic and of course the menstrual needs. The rule will be set exactly from 25 to 13 which are supplies, so we are talking about hygienic cartridges, tampons, cups and similar products that are exclusively related to these purposes. Also from 25 to 13 with the gas that I explained will be a transitional period, we also have heating from thermal cells, heating wood, pellets, briquettes and cutlets. Here's about everything about tax rates. There is another very important change that my colleagues here are with us Deputy and Assistant Director of our Tax Administration, he will also join us afterwards, so the idea among other things has been made in these tax changes one step on the basis of some of our existing experiences, so one clear provision of tax secret violations does not represent information that the taxpayer knew or had to know that he participated in transactions whose intention is to avoid VAT payments. It's one part that has nothing to do with this topic of inflation, but our experiences have shown that in these so-called. The circular chains of fraud unfortunately come to some who really have nothing to do with it, so to speak, the Colloquial innocent are killed. We must also regulate the legislative framework in a way that, of course, all the full measures and supervisory and control and other measures concerning circular fraud will be implemented, but of course we protect those segments, and we have seen that there are such situations where, unfortunately, some do not fall under it and then come under natural sanctions. As for the overall effect of these tax changes, it is estimated at 2 billion and 100 million kuna, again repeating the static method of assessment. So at this point, of course, we are now speculating and talking about what the feedback effects will be and the overall effect of that, of course, we are going to judge ex post evaluations among other things. Allow me, in the remaining time, to also sort of refer to your comments from the reasons for the breaks, I believe that they will be in replicas, about whether this will mean a reduction in prices. So that's what we've said many times and we've had and we've been through a few times and these experiences, that I'm going to repeat once again, reducing the rate of any value added tax or any other tax doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to come to the full purpose that we want. I gave one parallel with experiences that we saw in a small, in a small number of cases, and that was when we reduced income tax rates, that there were those employers who corrected their employees grossly on the lower and left it on the same net. So is VAT. But what we're talking about here is most of the time, we're mostly talking about energy and more about food. On food, I think we can agree that we have one of the most competitive food retail markets in terms of these organised chains, whether foreign or domestic, we don't have any distinction, whether we're talking in general about the market itself as such. Indeed, when compared to EU member states, you will see for yourself that there are not a small number of countries in our environment and the like. where you practically have two or three maybe key players. Here when you look at, say, market shares, and I have, among other things, launched one such initiative, so I have called on the 10 largest chains in the Ministry of Finance just to hear, of course, their vision and surely there is some competition among them. You saw it yourself, of course, are marketing and selling activities where they will announce price reductions before the formal entry into force, but again again, it is up to us to put it all together amongst other things and raise it to the ether, so I look forward to this debate every comment or question that will be on the subject, but at the same time, of course we do everything we do to further stimulate this competition and it goes to the benefit of the citizens, and not that we are coming to situations where these reductions in VAT rates are not being overrun where they are originally set up. And I think it's probably one of the things that needs to be taken care of. We also discussed the Euro Law last week, and then I said, and then I said again, and now, this measure was in itself envisaged, and you know that even in the Government's programme, VAT stands on food, but now we've decided completely to 13% we've decided on this measure to exactly segment, I'm going to repeat once again, fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, etc. You read my words very clearly from 13% to 5% together with all the agricultural production impulses. As far as further steps of the European directives are concerned, we have also talked about this in recent weeks, they create some additional framework, it is still as new as it has yet to come into effect, whatever it is it opens and some additional possibilities. The government of the Republic of Croatia as well as so far all tax changes have been monitoring the effects of the present, monitoring the international framework and some kind of environment, monitoring the current moments, moments and some assessment of future movements. In accordance with this and all the next tax changes in our mandate and will, in general, be largely guided by this. And now that we're looking at this VAT bill, I think we can all be happy together that we've managed to implement all of those previous ones in those nice times of tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97819	Let's go right now with the replicas there are 26 of them, the first colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97820	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Minister. I will refer to a reduction in the tax on menstrual supplies that decreases from 25 to 13%, that is, so on. Women's tax. It's one of those things that we discussed at the end of last year, and I didn't expect so early to actually be able to reduce, or related to menstrual needs. Otherwise, the debate behind this has caused some of this assembly to celebrate for five minutes, but it's not about five minutes of glory, it's about really making a step up. So I think it's both time and opportunity to cut from 25 to 5 because you had some other things that you were reducing from 25 to 5. I really appreciate that it's better to call menstrual needs, not to mention everything because something might and might, in the meantime, be done, but in that sense, my amendment will go that we still have that, to make sure that it's a female tax and to cut it to 5%. So my question is to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97821	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97822	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here just a few days ago, I personally participated in a panel with an extremely good lead on exactly our announcement of reducing VAT rates not menstrual needs, and in the context of this I would say a very good and important campaign against menstrual poverty. And among other things, the figures and percentages that are presented there, and to you, I think and the public are well known and surely this is a good direction. However, an opportunity has been taken on that panel, and now in this debate, that we all contribute, among other things, to the fact that here not only in food but also in the menstrual needs, this reduced rate is being translated into a lower price of these same menstrual needs, that, among other things, this problem of menstrual poverty is adequately addressed and that, at the same time, it is particularly well-absorbed to invest additional money in education itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97823	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97824	Dear Minister, it is clear that we support tax discharge, but we also warned that the government was late with the reaction and that during this period the prices were being charged by the state register because the share of VAT itself was, of course, higher, more significant inflow into the state budget. And actually, now the government is giving up something, we think it's too late. And what I would like you to answer to the Croatian public, if we have the price of fuel 13 kuna, so Eurosuper, 15 kuna diesel, almost 10 kuna blue diesel, which is a huge blow to our farmers. How many states does that take? And why isn't there going to be a significant downturn in excise duties and giving up this section for roads, so 13, 15, 10 how many states are there subtracting from that price?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97825	Can I get you an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97826	Thank you very much. So, in the total price of a litre of unleaded gasoline or diesel, let's simplify the base price that includes the cost of costing with a margin, there is a excise part and there is, of course, a VAT that goes as on all other products inside. So, according to these stakes, Croatia does not bounce anywhere. We're somewhere in the middle. In fact, I'd say in some things, especially in the elevators, we even had something in the lower category, or lower half, because the state knowingly brought down years ago, or had a lower rate of excise duty. Now I'm going to say the number before our last changes. Of the three kunas zero six limes, and of the gasoline three kunas eighty six. The difference of 80 was clear that the incentive is primarily given to the economic part, since nearly three-quarters of total excise duties are collected from the diesel one-quarter. Now that we're down by 20 limes, there's a diesel down there for 40 gasoline. In one of the next replicas, I'm going to continue this. I can't make it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97827	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97828	Dear President, the ministers mentioned today that because of the excessive VAT in tourism, there are no investments in hospitality and that it would be good to reduce it to 13. Since 1.1.2020, however, it has been reduced to 13% in catering, tourism services, pensions, hotels, camps, etc. And it is not true that there were no investments from 2016 to 2020 on average, there were investments growing from 10 to 12% annually in tourism, in catering and income grew somewhere from 7 to 10% of tourism. Therefore, by further downsizing to 13% when expected, prices may decrease. We've always said that's the difference we're going to invest in for the future in quality, in everything that's come. And precisely quality has been confirmed in markets where especially in catering services we have reached one high level compared to another competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97829	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97830	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague once, always colleague, does the Minister of Tourism know very well how strong he has been in recent years and still has, and of course, I think we should all do everything together that the investment cycle in tourism, in all tourism continues, strengthens as much as possible from organised accommodation, hotel chains, camps to private accommodation, or the catering sector. This is the only stock I would say for the future of a pro-pulsive, strategically important economic branch of the Republic of Croatia which has shown itself in detail the elasticity of tourism to exogenous disorders, so when there are more significant disorders such as corona or unfortunately now the current situation. Although here we all are together I mean not only should we cultivate hope and believe, but we should do everything to save this year's season as much as possible, that is, to make it as good. Because for now, things are the way they are, so we have a lot of good numerical indicators in terms of booking and booking in this so-called pre-season. And we hope that it will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97831	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97832	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we all know that VAT is the most unfair tax. They pay him as much as the poor and the rich. In the last five years, the tax administration has charged only $35 million in taxes on assets that cannot be proved to be of origin. I asked you that question, you answered me within the prescribed time limit. I thank you for that, but I'm interested. This makes it look like everyone in Croatia has acquired everything legally, and we all know it's not like that. So I'm interested in when you intend to start taxing property a little bit more to fill the state budget, not just the poor person who pays VAT absolutely on everything the same as the ones who have the salary and 30-40,000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97833	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97834	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In this part of justice, and I'm going to use the little one to say this more professional time of VAT regression, the fact and effect de facto is that we all pay it at an equal level unrelated to our incomes, unlike, say, I don't know the income tax that has these elements of the progressive rate and there are still two different levels of this income. Our intention is of course precisely when we see through these changes both before and before the covid and before these current inflationary pressures by lowering the VAT rate just to try to hit or reach those citizens who have not been in some other scissors there have been income taxes due to unfortunately low levels of their incomes and that this regressive effect as such decreases. As regards the taxation of assets, I would separate that part of the taxation of assets and property taxes or whatever they call it from the determination of the disproportionate amount of assets in relation to the receipts. You got in response, I don't have any more time, but you got me thinking all in response, if there's any need yet to write, we'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97835	Thank you. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97836	Thank you. First of all, I welcome the fact that you're the Government of the Republic of Croatia I'm going to say, so I can say, I won't say a word, but you generally accepted the SDP proposal in response to this growing crisis, but I have two questions. Do you, as vice president of the government, think about changing the fuel price regulation because she's in this crisis time I'm going to say a lot like that. So we'll only feel a change in fuel prices at 23, right, on Tuesday. We're now paying for something more expensive than it was a week ago when it was a pixel of the price of oil, so I suggest you do it a lot more often. And on the other hand, do you also think about swimming or floating any way you want excises? So now I'm not explaining, you're an economist, so I'm not going into any longer discussions here. Thank you. Otherwise... The payments would be smarter... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97838	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, I mean the answer to the question, when you ask me if I'm thinking about these circumstances, I'm thinking absolutely about everything, head full of everything to make such a little joke. Specific issues, as well as regarding the respected representative of Grmoy, so the reduction of this excise duty by 20 lipes is now at the elevator 38 lipes above the minimum prescribed EU, and 76 lipes above the minimum for gasoline. It's the space that still exists as such. Closely related to this is both your first and second question, so the method of calculation is of course one technical category very important, given the week, it should be asked the profession, we'll consult, we'll see, they take that week. On this example of this week, we saw that on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, last week, it affected price hikes, and the base prices went down, currently around 100, slightly below 100, so we expect next Tuesday's price reduction. As for swimming, they never made any sense until we fixed the margin, but here's what I'm going to do. Thank you. We'll see, I'm not finished. [[Clip intrusion: Now it makes sense]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97839	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97840	Thank you, Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Minister Maric. So what I want to point out this way is that this law actually allows for, among other things, the rise in the price of gas for households to be really minimised. Without these government measures, this increase for households would be almost 80%, as you said in the opening speech, and with measures that increase will be only 16%, as confirmed by HERA the other day, and the increase will not be 400% as in Romania, nor 250 as in Germany, nor 200% as in Belgium but as confirmed in 16%. And it should also be pointed out that Croatia with Hungary is the only Member State in fact where so far there has really not been an increase in gas prices for households, so here you are at this time asking for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97841	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97842	Thank you very much. Well, you've done well to apostrophe whether a few weeks ago when all these parameters of this are put into some kind of called so equation and when we saw, of course, that as one of the countries that has been resisting these price increases for a long time and that, unfortunately, this increase will now be so high, almost 80% of what you said yourself, then there are also going to be a set of measures that I repeat again cannot completely neutralize, but it can still, as such, mitigate it, and then I would say, more unfortunately, covered or supported by measures that will affect, as such, the most socially endangered layers of our society, or our citizens with lower incomes, however, even as much as possible, how much more painless of this is going to survive. In any case, gas as a category certainly has its own importance regardless of the fact that the whole of Croatia is not gassed, so we speak when we look at the number of households somewhere half.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97843	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97844	Mr. Marić, the auditor of the State Agency CERP i.e. The former Privatisation Fund met you as a resolute minister that the state of Croatia was damaged by 104 million kuna in the event of a public private partnership in Poreč. In every single state, the finance minister and the ministry had to do everything at present to prevent that damage, and the person who showed so much conscience and responsibility to give recognition. You, together with CERRP director Milan Plećaša and friend Andrej Plenkovic, fired lawyer Daniel Klobučar to the auditor Nadi Ružić, and did nothing to save the property of the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware that this is open corruption and illegality? Are you aware that you will be responsible for this open robbery of the property of Croatian citizens to which no one has the right, neither you nor your boss, Andrej Plenkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97845	Here's a reply from the minister, and I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97846	Thank you very much. Yes, the MPs will answer no matter what the issue is, but whatever it is, I must immediately deny any, any cancellation, I neither know the lady, nor work in the system for which I am responsible, so neither I can give nor participate as such nor do I participate in it. As for the procedure itself, every memo, even yours, when you send a memo, and when you call directly to the cabinet and ask my colleagues without asking me, ask directly, you get the answer as such, is that what you are and so far I would say this well enough, and so also according to this case, I do not have full knowledge about it, but I can say very calm heads and consciences that all the services of the Ministry of Finance in that district have acted in accordance with the rules and procedures or procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97847	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97848	There are two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is Article 238, you deceive the Croatian public, you lie, I would say Croatian public and thus humiliate us parliamentary representatives. You've been very familiar with this case since there's evidence, e-mails, memos for the same. And Article 33 has injured you, Mr. Chairman. I am certainly on the subject and don't warn me because if this wasn't an open robbery and corruption, we wouldn't have to listen here to this blurry as much as you're going to lower VAT rates. Because 60 billion kunas wouldn't go to the corruption that you tolerate. [[Intruder: Fellow Vidovic Kristo...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97849	You win, you win, you sit down, you get a warning, come on. Don't come out of the subject, everyone knows it's not a subject, but you do what you want. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97850	Thank you very much. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly, is always heard from the opposition benches of this kind of intervention at the time when the government is successful and when both foreign agencies confirm it. For 3 years, the surplus has led to confidence in the government, salary growth, minimum wage growth, employment growth, and you have pointed out that 11% more payments in the pension system are due to wage growth. Also, the average salary in Zagreb of over 8 and a half thousand kuna is approaching 1,000 euros in Croatia. So you've also protected these successes in Covid with a package of over 13 billion kuna just for wages, and now you're protecting with a 5 billion kuna package. What's important and good is that VAT goes down specifically to these categories because they hit exactly these poorest ones. Therefore, that is the EU's value. And my question to you is, how about all these measures if we weren't members?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97851	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97852	Thank you, Your Honor, these questions are always what, if the scenario is, I would say ungrateful, but surely I would say and I would say that our experiences so far are mainly, especially in crisis situations that circumstances are where and where harder and our answers could certainly not be so strong and adequate. At the same time, however, I will not ignore exactly this first part of your comment or replica that we have just and in the tax section, but also in the full segment of public finances did all that was necessary to actually secure the position. No one could have predicted, there is no visionary in this world who can predict both the crown or the aggression on Ukraine or any other disorder and the like, but at the same time with all those measures that worked in a peaceful sense, but also the transposed peacetime atmosphere has actually given us the opportunity to react adequately, but also timely. It's a similar approach to Covid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97853	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97854	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, every tax discharge is more than necessary and welcome, so here it is good to lower the VAT to fresh and chilled meat, fresh and chilled fish, eggs, etc., and of course I, as a doctor, will always prefer to recommend a portion of blue fish than pasta on bread. However, the fact is that for different meat processing, dry meat products and frozen meat remains a rate of 25%. Many citizens continue to consume these products, and pork is still the main category of meat that is processed 90% in our, in our meat industry, so I ask you, since the meat industry also warns you if you lower this VAT rate, there will be a drop in consumption of exactly these products that I have listed and then cross-border purchases, etc., so I want to know how you will help the meat industry and when you will lower VAT on the precisely these products that I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97855	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97856	Thank you very much for the well-respected MPs and for the recommendations of the doctors, the one about the blue fish and the like. So, agricultural production including livestock production here and in that first short exposé in the introductory section is in some way covered, what an incentive was made by tax policy to simply be given from the production input via the product segment itself, specifically and intentionally stressing fresh meat, fresh fish. For further steps as I have finally said this, taking into account the moment in terms of an international framework in the environment, European and similar, as well as our domestic. We, among other things, know both ourselves and in the government's program predicted at some point that complete food should be at 13%. Now I would say, however, that the benefits of our citizens were mildly deviated so that this segment went to 5, but we do not rule out, although we do not rule out other segments and meat work, dairy and similar that are not now covered by this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97857	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97858	Your Honor, I have two questions. How many countries this year came from VAT compared to the same period last year? It is probably a significantly higher amount since there has been a significant price increase in the last 2 months, and this law only takes effect on 1 April and therefore we believe that he should be here much earlier at the meeting benches in the debate. The second issue is the biggest blow to citizens reflected in their budgets, and the final price of all products is definitely the price of fuel. So at the price of a resolution of 13 kuna per litre of fuel, 5.2 kunas go to excise duties, 2.6 goes to VAT while 5.2 kuna is the original price let's say fuel plus the margin of traders. When the government will make a decision on floating excise duties temporarily or on reducing VAT precisely at the price of fuel which will then still come to terms and will also be felt by final customers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97859	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97860	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'll try to be really short to get both questions covered. With today's day, or yesterday's, with the fact that I have to give the fence, there's been a lot of press enquiries, so I have to apologize to my colleague and the public, not because we didn't want to give them the information, but we said, "Let's wait for the end of the month." As far as VAT is concerned, it's always the end of the month when a full calculation is made, but here I am in HS, and I have to answer the questions, one billion kunas right in the first two-and-a-half months, so it's more than the same period last year, nine billion and 100 compared to eight billion and 100. However, I repeat again, the more relevant information will be at the end of this month, or at the beginning of the next one when we will have a reckoning. VAT on fuel, I believe we've all noticed no country has built. For what reason? It's not allowed by the directive. The reduced VAT rates are not as provided for in this Regulation. As for excise duties, I repeat again as I said before, 38 on diesel and 76 on gasoline we have I'll make one more comment later. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97861	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97862	Thank you very much, President. The Honorable Ministers of the Government. The Ministry you've been headed since 2016. It's looking for a solution to help our citizens and make business easier for the economy. Because of the global impact of the increase in energy prices, the difficult business of the economic sector and the adverse impact of prices on the standard of our citizens and this bill that we certainly support here we are all here in HS. But my question isn't about VAT, it's about hard business. Namely, it is about Đuro Đaković TEP, which has been in trouble and you have been working for almost two weeks to help and ensure that a thousand employees who are employed in Đuro Đaković company are left behind, so please see if there is any new information about this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97863	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will take advantage of the opportunity as you yourself have said, regardless of the fact that it is not closely related to the VAT Act, but it is important for the employees of Đura Đaković TeP 872, their families, co-operatives and the general functioning of Slavonski Brod in economic terms, and then the wider and wider Brodo-Posavina County. So, given all the well-known circumstances that I am not repeating them in a short time, the solution is in the sense that we will separate the implementation of sanctions that we are of course under obligation and we will do so in relation to functioning. Therefore, issues and ownership issues in relation to the normal functioning of the company that is in Croatia, in Slavonski Brod, which employs people, pays taxes in Croatia and has a market practically fully at EU level. That's where we're really talking about the terms, I'd say hours, so today, no later than tomorrow, as such a solution will be known. Then I'll have to go back to the next replica to the excise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97865	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97866	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. First of all, I welcome all the measures that the government has taken and those concerning the VAT itself, and all in the context of the fact that a large part of the measures has actually been adopted by the SDP which has been a long series of weeks and I would say months. I remind you that price growth began in September, on September 15th I asked a question about price growth and what you think you're doing about it. What I'm interested in is whether you're considering long-term measures such as excluding excise duties from the VAT base and leaving only VAT on the price, purchase price and margin in the price of gasoline? Secondly, are you considering integrating the measures proposed by the European Commission in the framework of its new Energy Strategy such as taxation of extra income for energy companies, and thank God in Croatia we have as many giants as you want? And what do you think about raising concession prices for exploiting mining wealth in the Republic of Croatia? Or a little stronger taxation of that particular part? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97867	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97868	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, like Mr. or Honorable Representative Hajdas Doncic's remarks, so in today's circumstances, one must think about everything, but here I must be very clear and categorical, there is no tax exemption from VAT calculations simply is not as possible by European legislation and directives or any other and it would not make any sense. But again to go back to the previous one because I am obliged to further clarify it, and these 38 and 76, respectively, which are over the minimum excise duty for over 3,000 business entities in the Republic of Croatia that is the data for last year, are being returned to minimum excise duty. So, whether you're transporting passengers, busmen or transporting goods, not only an authorised type now not to advertise a company but even within larger distribution chains, you have a refund of excise duty to a minimum. Last year, 233 million kunas were paid to return the excise duty for a minimum, so for these entities there is no more in terms of the possibility of further reduction, they are already at a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97869	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97870	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Let's leave our emotions for songs and be rational. HEP is owned by the state 100% and has achieved about 7 billion kuna over the last six years and I will not ask you as in the film, where Lebovski's money is but I will say that I am very intrigued by a tweet that the government has published, says the current average annual electricity bill of 3,400 kuna and that we have done nothing would have increased by 782 kuna. With these measures, it will grow by 325 kuna, which means you will save 457 kuna. I'm asking you as a rational man of finance, a wise man, do you really think, but you, I don't care at all who wrote it, that if something was collected 325 kuna that it was a savings of 457 kuna and what mathematical operation or I don't know by logical process did it come to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97871	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97872	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it is also closely related to the problem the distinguished representative mentioned earlier on about the thought and reflection of long-term measures. Well, among other things, HEP's mission is to respond and to contribute to its short-term challenges, but at the same time through investment potential and cycles, and some other measures, of course, to protect and contribute to the protection of our interests of energy and in some medium to long term. The bill is clear, you saw it from the presentation, the government presented it on the trail and some of the replicas from earlier, so in some proportion or relationship they were placed what would happen with the price of gas and the total monthly or annually, here we are specifically talking about the annual account, that there is no reaction either government in terms of certain stimulating measures or HEP itself. This increase would be 782 kunas per year, and instead with these measures is 325. So I'll do it again. All these measures are for mitigation, they cannot fully neutralize price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97873	Do I see that right? Injury of my colleague Škoro's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97874	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to make a note. I haven't been long. So Article 385 is not about gas at all, it's about electricity. Thank you very much. Yeah, well, if it wasn't the numbers, it's not just that the numbers aren't coming to you, it's not going to go to me either. So it's not about gas, it's about electricity. No, no, you said gas, so I reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97875	Okay, you got a warning, and you didn't explain much why. Let's move on. Comrade Mandaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97876	Dear Mr. Minister, the amendments to the VAT Act there from 2020, and in 2021, the threshold that serves you is increased on two occasions, to official taxpayers, to those to whom VAT is charged at or at the expense of an account. It's actually welcomed by a large number of taxpayers. In your opening statement, we heard that about 61,000 of them pay VAT only by bill. Whether it is considered to further increase the threshold now set to 15 million kuna, the threshold actually corresponds to the 2m-euro threshold that defines the size of the micro-enterprises. Is there any thought that this might be raised, perhaps to the level of 75 million kuna defined by small entrepreneurs, and if something like that were to go on, would that be some additional effort with the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97877	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97878	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the answer is quite short because it concerns this time for 60 seconds. Unfortunately, we can't go any further because, as I said in the introduction, we took advantage of all the possibilities of the directive and with that first raise, I think it's logical, or understandable why, from three then on, millions to seven and a half prejudge, of course, our way to the euro today to round it up to a million euros. And then when the corona crisis broke out we also took advantage of the possibility that this amount was open then and increased to then maximum or still valid maximum 15 million kunas. Dale, round again somewhere 2 million euros. But here, I'll use it not to save myself or your time but to say, so we've been following the reaction of entrepreneurs and natural and legal persons in terms of value added tax. I've told you the numbers, so in legal persons, that part of the fee is going up a little bit. In the case of natural persons in fact over the years, that number has even been reduced, so the option is whether or not it will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97879	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97880	Dear Minister, I would like you to explain to me, and also to the citizens, by the way, how it is a savings for the citizens when you take the VAT on gasoline of 36% more than how it is a savings for the citizens when you freeze the price, and that frozen price is higher than the prices in an environment where they are not withdrawn. As while the price was 10 kuna and oil 147 kuna as today when the price of oil is 100 kuna and the price of gasoline is 15 kuna. And what is definitely your portfolio to explain to the citizens the transfer price between INA and MOL and what are the transfer prices and how much it costs the Republic of Croatia when MOL takes Croatian oil at one price fixed, and sells to Croatia or sells gasoline by calculating oil at market prices. Well, as for the black swan, let me know that HDZ has a good PR.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97881	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97882	I don't know if the Rules of Procedure is supposed to be able to answer for more than 60 seconds, but really, all of your questions can't get in the way of that, but it doesn't matter. How we're used to your questions, and then we can figure it out eventually. So, I think about saving for citizens and relative to the total tax income, I think we have already discussed the subject many times in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, you're looking at how much a load per unit of a product is a liter of gasoline, a kilogram I don't know of anything or a measure of a unit compared to a total quantum. I also spoke to you in the introduction and mentioned among other things one of the meanings of tax discharge was that, of course, it was to contribute both to investment and to some growth in employment and to raise wages and it finally happened. And the reflection again is back to the budget is positive. The more investment in terms of companies will be more VAT, the higher wages and employment will be more income taxes, the higher the amount of contributions. So, when you look individually let's look at your salary and my salary as well as every other tax and tax wedge in 2016 compared to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97883	Injury of my colleague Brumnic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97884	Ministers were injured, i.e. the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, was injured in Article 238 when the minister here corresponds to the tax burden of salaries at the time the tax burden was passed, you did well for those who had high salaries and those high salaries in the Republic of Croatia were less than minimum salaries in Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97885	Your colleague Brumnic is completely unnecessaryly warned because this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have misused the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97886	Dear Ministers as well as I am in explaining the break, and I see that we all agreed more or less, of course, that we support every tax discharge of citizens. However, in order for this to be long-term and how a greater tax discharge might be, we must begin to solve problems in some other restaurants or ministries so that our expenditure side of the budget is balanced. We know when we were planning, or when the 2022 budget was being made, we had a nine billion kuna deficit plan, and that's how this year's budget was set. And since our income here is shrinking by 2.1 billion kuna, it means that the deficit on the budget is going to increase. We know how to cover the first nine million. We probably know how to cover these 2.1, but I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97887	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97888	Thank you very much. Absolutely respected representative. So, the issue that is certainly the main and key to these tax changes is, of course, the question of the role of public finances in economic growth and the overall overcoming of the crisis, but of course its sustainability itself. And that's the honourable MP Pavic just before apostrophe of what we did in what I'm going to say to the nice circumstances, the nice times, bring down that deficit, reduce the share of public debt in GDP, and that gave us the opportunity to react when these times come. At this very moment just today 17.3., I still have no final data, during about a month the State Statistics Office and Eurostat will publish the final data for 2021. According to all our estimates, the deficit is in a three-percent zone, so better than we expected. More importantly, that the public debt to all our projections within 80% therefore significantly reduced compared to what we planned and projected, so we will also take all the measures that were planned for this year, of course the budget is quite a dynamic instrument, it takes years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97889	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97890	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Maric, here's what I think is a good package of measures, I see that he was welcomed by the social partners, also welcomed by farmers. It's about the 6th round of discharge, and although you've planned it somewhere if I remember correctly in the last year of the mandate to reduce the additional VAT on food and agricultural inputs you've done it now and I think it's the right time. Of course, it will be necessary to help farmers with additional support to complete the spring crop, as well as to fill the stock reserves, and the state should consider the first purchase right when we talk first about cereals. What I'm curious about is whether this situation in Ukraine has affected increased consumption or if citizens are waiting for VAT cuts, as the tax administration says about it? I would also like to know if you will be doing your own blacklists with the help of the consumer associations, because we all expect that the prices for consumers will be reduced, and will that come to pass depending on traders?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97891	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97892	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the data right now... With the figures I've said to the esteemed representative just now regarding VAT. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On a daily basis, we can monitor fiscalization, fiscalization of retail, so it's not just food rising compared to last year about 7 to 10% depending on what coverage of tights or something wider you take. But for the past few days, we haven't seen any more significant disturbances, and now some big one can say such great purchases in the not knowing of any discomfort of citizens in view of the circumstances, etc., I think that citizens are rationally and reasonably assessing and I think that both our discussions and our messages that we give should be in the direction of, among other things, giving them timely and real information without creating any additional information, I would say, in such a way and in difficult times, pressures on citizens. So as far as these purchases themselves are concerned, it's more or less clear, and as far as agriculture itself is concerned, I think it's very good that we've apostrophyd and put in public space self-sufficiency and generally sufficient food as one of the key categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97893	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97894	Thank you. We certainly welcome the measures, especially those we have proposed ourselves, such as an increase in the amount of vouchers from 200 to 400 kuna, but we are not satisfied with the scope of those vouchers. In fact, you've used one-time aid for a 720,000 pensioners, and less than 100,000 people receive these vouchers, and that gap is the best, the best indicator of how much permanent help should be given to people, so not the one-time one. I certainly welcome the fact that HEP has given up some of the profits, but we would like to note at this point the importance of public service and what the problems with privatising them are, but I am asking the question regarding the proposal for a conclusion that we have referred to the procedure, which is that increased revenues are meant from VAT to fuel re-use, as well as the existing amounts for excise duties, re-suspended for subsidising public transport, since very many people will be forced to switch to public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97895	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97896	Thank you, well-respected MPs, both on the replica and on the comment, or on the proposal. I have to say and connect it to some previous replicas, it is good that here and here in the debate when we look at this VAT law, it is most important in terms of the commitment of the tax revenue of the state budget and in general the general state and that I am apostrophy and that we agree, I have just presented the data that, of course, filling the budget and partly due to inflationary pressures is better, but the revenues are only one segment, there is also an expendable side. Now that you mention it, let's say the pensioners and our measure, I'm glad you welcome this. This, and here is the gentleman or representative of the Hrelja well knows, so we will now have an indexation of pensions. We all know that on an individual pension it's as much as it is and, of course, where we're lucky that we can go more financially and financially and in one way or another, we can increase those pensions, but that indexation alone of 2.2% is about 800 and something, 900 almost million kuna. So it's good with revenue, but neither income nor income under these circumstances, nor in any other key, is expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97897	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97898	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you mentioned earlier that over the past two months, the state budget has been revenueting about a billion kunas higher with the basis of VAT and as you yourself have said and now it is probably part of inflation and an increase in prices of goods and services. What I'm interested in is how in this observed period where we record a billion kuna increase in VAT-based income is the situation with contributions? In fact, the contributions on the other hand talk about increasing or increasing wages if there has been an increase in income from contributions, contributions or on the other hand by increasing the number of employees, increasing the payer's contribution to the Republic of Croatia, and I am interested in whether, in this past two months, it is a similar situation and with contributions which would then talk about much clearly about economic activities in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here is when I every day when my colleagues bring me this table of daily income, the state, believe that the first category I look at are contributions, although everyone thinks that VAT is the most significant, but the contribution is still a little bit and some other things still talking and revealing and then I could say and with pleasure say even though I will immediately and for this speaker I will reduce all my satisfaction because when I'm a little satisfied then I grow appetites and many other things, so I'm not so happy with this, but here's 700 million kuna more contributions to pension insurance compared to the same period last year. I have to be mortally serious right now if many people are watching who and the budget users are what I'm saying, but whatever the joke is aside these are data and VAT and contributions also speak of one regardless of all the circumstances of one solid economic activity for this year. We will during the next month until the adoption of the Convergence Programme and see and update our macroeconomic model, and we will, among other things, and present to the public the latest projections. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97901	My colleague Big Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97902	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, therefore, the amount of fuel price when charged for all costs and oil companies and retail sales, so transport and storage takes about 40% of the total price. Therefore, almost 60% of the fuel price amounts are various government charges, so other than excise duties, we pay VAT not at the basic price of the derivatives but for the price increased for all these duties. So we kind of come to pay taxes on taxes like it's some kind of extra luxury product that transports by car today really isn't. And of course these prices are a big blow to our citizens and to the economy and every intervention you have is welcome, but you are constantly fixing the margin of traders. I would suggest that you react a little bit at the VAT rate and by the method of calculation. Of course you are now a little bit to say we have been fenced by EU directives, but extraordinary times require extraordinary measures both here and with the Sber Bank, the rules are changing, and here is why I expect that You'll actually be additionally busy this way accounting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97904	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, as far as VAT is concerned, and you yourself have heard my answer to one of the previous replicas. It's not just a building block now, it's a fact, and if something changes, we'll see it, but then I wouldn't prejudge any circumstances, because the other day I was talking about it. Among other things, let us not neglect and, of course, we can now be very all the broad arms on both VAT and some other taxes, but there are other sides of the medal. So, among other things, what I was just talking about and the dissipating side of the budget as such. As for excise duties, let me just say it again, you know it well, but also for the public who follows. We have excise duties on electricity, alcohol, alcoholic beverages, beer, non-alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, coffee, luxury products and personal cars. So the tax system itself or excise duties or special taxes depending on what we call and what their category is I think they have a clear definition of why they are introduced as such. If they exist as a special VAT tax, it's always the one that comes at the end. All together when you add it to that goes VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97905	Thank you. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97906	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Minister, you are not only the Minister of Finance, you are also the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask you to send a clear message to the Croatian citizens in this short minute, because we note their concerns about supplying basic living supplies, we note that people are afraid and are of course trying to supply themselves. So, you said in your opening statement, you spoke to representatives of the 10 largest trade chains in Croatia, so please send another message to the Croatian public, so let's say calming the situation. Tell us how we are currently standing with supply and now and in some near future with basic living supplies and whether there is any reason for any fear or do not give God a panic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97907	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97908	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Your Honor, I'm pleased to see you in the assembly. As far as your question is concerned, it is absolutely in place and it is important to take this opportunity to mention it. Therefore, the talks with representatives of retail chains and topics of introduction of the euro and inflation, but mostly on security of supply. And now we've talked about energy, we've apostrophe, it's not just a matter of easing price increases, it's an effect that we have as safe as that supply. We had a similar and a lot of I would say in these circumstances a greater challenge to the outbreak of the pandemic itself when certain borders were Slovenian and Italian Slovenian, Austrian closed and numerous of our trucks carrying certain of these corrupt food products, so in some way they were held at those borders. And then there was a similar meeting to do everything we could to make sure that everyone was fully transporting the distribution, the logistics, that it would just be enough. So of course we're going to keep doing it and I think we really need to calm down any kind of behavior I'd say hasty behavior and calm the citizens down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97909	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97910	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the VAT Act has actually changed since 2017 on here every year. Since '17. So in turn, there has always been intervention, and this is important to stress that you have always considered exactly what has been very much and talked about and where there have been opportunities to help both citizens and the economy. You also mentioned this reduction in VAT thresholds and ways of calculating and paying VAT, which has helped entrepreneurs greatly. What I would also like to point out is that these changes are exactly planned for gas in this period from one year to five percent, so this is the key moment when it must be taken care of and followed by the standard of citizens, and after that we know that it is the lowest VAT rate allowed to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97911	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97912	Thanks to the well-respected MPs, you know best as the chairman of our home board, as well as my colleagues, that every year we make a little more complicated life, so every year we come to the board and the Croatian Parliament and with changes in the VAT system among other reasons and that this tax gives their contribution as well as a little more important representative, that this regressivity of value added tax is reduced, or that in this way we give the same kind of benefits and benefits to our citizens who are lower paying powers, which is actually when you look at their monthly or annual basket, precisely these elements of energy with gas and electricity, I will be apostroping and waste of garbage, or as such water, therefore communals, energy, or food, that is the very way we go down, because in their baskets were either monthly, whether we can only say the only one thing we understandable or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97913	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97914	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, today when we talk about amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, you also mentioned the tourism sector. We heard some midwives reopening the VAT reduction theme to serve alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks. I would like you to say once again what are the measures that will apply to the tourism sector because we know very well that this package of measures proposed by the Government, which is worth nearly 5 billion kuna, refers to both households and entrepreneurs, farmers, fishermen, etc. It plans to reduce gas and electricity prices, reduce food prices, increase competitiveness, preserve jobs, purchasing power, etc., for sure this applies to the tourism sector, and would ask you to point out once again what the tourism sector will expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97915	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97916	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'll take advantage of the opportunity, so just as you've replicated or asked us to repeat it, so when we look at the tourist sector in the entire range, the complete system of accommodation is organized and individual so in the system is of these 13% as organized categories. On the other hand, as regards catering in some of the latest changes to 13% is also a complete service to save and serve in and outside catering facilities, so in some ways we have a kind of anomaly that has previously become about that everything that has been reduced has only been related to what was consumed in the catering facility. So this is where we've covered even wider than that. However, a clear distinction, food yes, and as non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages are at a standard or regular rate of 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97917	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. Here are the latest measures as well as the ones we have so far are mostly directed towards the most vulnerable, most sensitive social groups, which shows one sensitivity of the Croatian government, and I think it really deserves a sincere thank you. But we all know that the budget is a limited character that is not boundless that it is limited by many conditions. As a responsible government, we know that here's the priority, among other things, to care for health care, for education, for social care, and each of these measures in one way reduces the maneuvering space for creating new reliefs. Unfortunately, these threats seem to be going on track one after another, it's hard to predict what tomorrow will be, but can you at least tell us in general how much space there is left if they continue these and similar threats?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97919	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97920	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think I'm going to drag the parallel again and again with how many of this happened these two years and with the crown crisis as we said then, so we'll always have a certain and prepared answer to this crisis. Speculating how much space there is or not is not grateful, but I think that our mission and role in these and such circumstances is to find solutions and solutions and decisions that will mean certain benefits, here in this particular case we are talking about easing the rise in energy and food prices. We cannot fully neutralize mitigation at least, but at the same time ensure that their supply and their use is in a way fully ensured so as not to cause any significant disturbances. We will continue to do so without now the intention of quantifying something. We all know what our budget space is, what public debt is, international markets, we follow all of this together, and we view it as an integral part of our package of measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97921	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97922	The Honorable Ministers. From your response to all the replicas so far, it is clear that you are self-aware that all these measures of VAT reduction that you are proposing will not significantly depreciate the impact on citizens' standards. Price rise is due to rising prices of oil and oil derivatives on the world market. Since as Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister you are also a member of the government's narrow cabinet, I urge you to consider it well first, and then the Government on the basis of an article. 26. The Energy Act shall decide on the ban on the export of oil produced by INA to the Republic of Croatia and to establish its processing in the Refinery in Rijeka. Therefore, since Russia's aggression in Ukraine, exceptional circumstances have arisen that put supply stability at risk, not only prices, in the long term. And it is time to start taking care of the long-term strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97923	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97924	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's the shortest possible answer since there were no questions, your replica received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97925	Honorable representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97926	Dear Minister. I would say that the problem of this and the previous governments is always being that it deals with the consequences of the crisis, and in the long run it can't actually solve the problem or improve citizens' standards. So here it is now like putting out fires, or reducing this effect on citizens' standards, we propose and support a reduction in VAT. We were talking about reducing excise duties, etc. or one of these methods is also the transfer of money to vulnerable groups of people, but any of these instruments will be applied either to reduce budget revenue or to increase expenditure. How this can be financed in three ways or you will increase the taxes of another dish or you will release the growth of public debt or you will reduce the impact on the reduction of some other public expenditures, so on those famous reforms that we are constantly calling upon and the territorial structures of public administrations, etc. So when I think I'm dealing with this part reduction of public expenditure? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97927	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97928	Thank you well-respected MPs for your replica and comment and question. So, I'm going to take the opportunity to make a very clear and unambiguous statement, so neither in the past nor in this crisis, tax increases are going to be or will be the subject, so that's what I think is most important in the economy, but also in the citizens that they know. As for the expenditure side of the budget and in general our borrowing options, I will closely tie the answer to your replica with some previous replicas. When we talk about some long-term effects and a long-term vision, a strategy and, in general, everything that's related to a longer term, I think it's the best indicator. I will say again, so in good times we have done so among other things to consolidate these public finances and to correct our own among other things and our reputation in international domestic financial markets. There's a corona crisis coming up. During the night, you must provide an additional 30 billion kuna and we have secured it. Domestic sources, international sources, at some point came European funds. So it's very clear that this long-term vision and the general functioning of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97929	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97930	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I'll tell you two sentences from my base first. People tell you that you're a responsible, hardworking man and that you're doing a responsible job and that you just keep doing it like that. It means we can have absolute confidence in you. Secondly, any reduction in VAT that is aimed at discharging citizens as well as stimulating the economy. This is about this five billion kuna package, but we can't forget the 13 billion spent on both covid and job maintenance. Now my question to you is, is this budget planned, will it affect the deficit, i.e. the income and expenditure side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97931	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97932	Thank you very much, Your Honor, welcome to all. I have to thank you, yes. As for all these elements and our proposed changes and everything that is happening globally and all these effects certainly have an effect on both the budget and the economic course. When we were doing the budget, we were working at that moment, so we're talking about the last quarter, the last quarter of last year with all the data and elements you have. In the meantime, a lot has happened and, among other things, you have to consider all this together. As I said just before and to the esteemed representative Bačić, we will in a few weeks update our macroeconomic model, which will be the rate of growth, the assessment of inflation. We know for sure that inflation will be, that is, an inflation assessment for this year, higher than we planned. It may now and in this entire macroeconomic model also have a slightly higher share than economic growth itself. With that, of course, we'll all get out when it's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97933	Thank you very much, Minister. You can go back to your seat, and then I'd open up the debate. The first will be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, and will be spoken by respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97934	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. If it hadn't been for the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, this would have been what the minister presented today simply brilliantly, and everyone would have agreed that these amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act are something to be welcomed and supported. We will support it this way, but we can already say that these new circumstances cast a shadow on the material that is ahead of us because everyone who sits here, we all know very well that what is on our benches today is not going to be enough to ease the impact on our citizens' standard of living. When the government presented these measures, when it made this decision and I commended the measures on public television, because they were really very correct, it was thought of a number of groups even of foster parents and all this was truly commendable because in these situations we have to protect the very most vulnerable groups of citizens. We need to help the most socially endangered residents overcome the circumstances that bring an extremely high dose of uncertainty. Today it's hard to tell what's waiting for us by the end of the year, whether this wave of gathering will continue and I believe that very soon before the summer break comes another package of laws. This won't be enough. I hope the finance minister is aware of this, and despite the growth of interest rates on the debt, he will reach out to some other instruments. This tax discharge will not be enough to mitigate price increases by the end of the year. You can see that already now and at the price of motor fuels, but also the blue diesel that is soon here at the pomegranate level of 10 kuna. Carriers raise prices and therefore follow us again a wave of purchases. Trade chain announcements are in vain that it will reduce prices even before lower VAT rates take effect because energy prices continue to rise on the world market and the government will likely have to intervene again. In doing so, I must stress that the price of motor fuel is lower in all countries in the environment, absolutely all of them. And I've already mentioned the price of gasoline in Hungary, but I will now mention another fact, which is that oil, raw oil from Croatia, some half a million tonnes per year, is going to be processed into that same Hungary where the fuel price is 9.17 kuna per litre. In Croatia is the price of diesel, and we can say 14 kuna. We'll ignore that one lipo. So Croatian oil goes to processing in Hungary. Our two refineries in Sisak are preserved, and this one in Rijeka for the winter stands ever longer and longer. He's been around for five months now. With one move from Minister Ćorić's pen, oil ended in Hungary, and in principle we can say that this is not the way in which Croatian interests are taken care of and Croatian sovereignty. If that's the new sovereignty, we don't support it. When it comes to the economy, carriers are already asking for help and they are not the only ones and I have to give another example that I see is looking for a solution, but I appeal for this solution to be done as soon as possible because the sanctions are already taking Russia's first victim here in Croatia. It is Djuro Djakovic TEP who employs almost 1000 workers, if we add more co-operatives, then it is over 1,000 workers. The sanctions are on fire only because it has a Russian passport owner and it is one of the regional leaders in the production of boilers, power plants and biomass plants. Djuro Djokovic TEP does not work with the Russian market, all income is generated on the European market, on the EU market and all suppliers are from the EU. Therefore, I hope, and as far as I monitor the media, this is intensively done, that the government will find a solution as soon as possible that Đuro Đakovic TEP continues to do normal business and pay its workers' wages, paying suppliers because it is a thousand workers who could be out of work, and I note that these are workers who are extremely wanted in the EU. They will have absolutely no problem finding a job somewhere in some EU member state, so no matter the sanctions, the solution must be found for them. I cannot accept the fact that Russia's first victim of sanctions is one successful company from one of the Slavonian counties. Why should Slavons always have to pay me absolutely everything and everything has to break on our backs. We also have other companies such as the PPD that operates with the Russian Federation and directly imports of gas from Russia, it could even be said that these funds directly finance Russia's invasion, but the gas needs the entire EU, it's not sanctions and there's nothing there and there's these illogicalities that we have to testify to, so we need to keep an eye on and react as it has reacted in the case of Sberbanka. The fact that at EU level, solutions for a protective umbrella are being wasted personally after the fall of this drone in the wider centre of Zagreb do not make me too calm, safe, or happy because we were first able to see that these protective umbrellas are full of holes and we cannot rely on them. This reduction in VAT rate will also lead to a change in budget, revenues will be reduced by slightly more than 2 billion kuna and we saw that in the first 2 and a half months, based on this increase, prices have already been made by more than those billion kunas in the same period last year, but I must mention that the introduction of the euro will cost 2 billion kuna, and then it could be said that as far as we are concerned, there is room for savings only if some planned activities are delayed. No matter how much the Ministry of Finance says that Croatia will meet all the euro, all the conditions for Eurozon entry, no matter what growth and interest, no matter what inflation is wild, but at this time the extreme uncertainty when the furious war in Europe prices are rising, arms costs are increasing, inflation is speeding up and we are at the heart of a refugee crisis which we haven't seen in these areas since World War II. In the opinion of us Croatian sovereigns should not work to abolish monetary sovereignty and enter the Eurozone. Therefore, we can only interpret this decision as a political decision that has to do with economic parameters, but in this situation, it could be extremely problematic. And I'm going to mention something else, which is that, as I said in the replica, VAT is exactly the tax that's the most unfair, it's all paid equally, and I'm going to look only very briefly at another segment that isn't covered by these measures, which is dairy processing and meat processing. So I'm extremely glad to see that you're taking care of menstrual poverty, I'm glad you're reducing that tax, but I don't understand why you've excluded yogurt, why you've excluded the dairy spreads and everything else that may be a little bit more consumed by our pensioners, so I'm appealing here once again to consider expanding these, this reduction of VAT and the milk processing that make up also a significant expenditure on the diet of our residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97935	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97936	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I said, the SDP welcomes the fact that the government of the Republic of Croatia has respected some of our proposals on the necessity of reducing the SDP rate to certain products, as well as finally that after half a year of warning, it should start to work a little more actively to control price growth, therefore, fuel prices. It still governs its interventions, so this is our position, showing that it is not able to spot and actively and adequately respond to crisis circumstances that are not only inflatorical, so here we are not just talking about inflation costs but, unfortunately, depend on the war in Ukraine, and this is seen in a great increase in fuel prices despite the measures that have been taken. So, the first problem the SDP sees is that the Croatian formula, let's call the Croatian fuel price formula, leads to the price of fuel at the pumps going strongly up even though the peak or peak of the world oil price was somewhere around $ 130 last Tuesday, and since then prices have fallen. According to the current government regulation, which is a rather complex accounting period for price fixing Mondays, and prices are adjusted on Tuesdays and are valid until next Monday at midnight. So what was the problem here now? If the top of the world oil price was on Tuesday, March 8th, it was not only Women's Day but it was unfortunately the top, dots and prices of gold and oil, and the stocks were at the lowest that day to say to the world, at the world level, and the current calculation therefore just entered the prices of 12 more expensive days after what I stated. Which means that until midnight on March 21st, the fuel will be under the influence of something that happened 14 days apart. So 14 days ago it happened. Which means that the fall that will come safely, as Minister Maric said, cannot be reflected at prices before March 22nd. So why is that happening? Because there is an excessive administration, and decisions should be made in accordance with the circumstances of which, of course, the government would show that it is capable of preventing overpriced oscillations and maximum consumer protection. So, what's our proposal? To amend the regulation, to align prices more frequently and to introduce floating or floating excise duties. It doesn't matter if they're swimming or floating it's one and the same or to reduce the burden when the prices of raw materials rise and vice versa what I think my colleague Ahmetovic and I suggested somewhere in October last year. And now of course you need to be careful here, so I don't like that libertarian attitude why we don't include it but what one of the MPs suggested, we can't talk bravo down taxes now that's great, the hell that's great. Of course, because the VAT and excise duties on the budget proposal are almost 79 billion if my brain serves me well, so there are about 18 billion excise duties, 10 of which is fuel, the rest is VAT. So, I think health and education and defence must be financed, etc., so we can't look at it, let's cut taxes and whoever's plowing us all the way. That's not exactly how it works, and I don't think we belong to that economic school. Furthermore, what we have proposed is and consider reducing VAT on excise duties on fuels which is not covered by this law, which can probably be excluded from the basis of VAT calculations. So VAT would only be at the price of fuel and excise margins. And maybe then they'd answer those questions that, I think Col. Skoro mentioned, what it's like to have fuel prices cheaper in neighbouring Hungary or BiH. In general, what I'm saying is that the fuel price structure, and the fuel price is a very important contract of inflationary movements, so that the government can amortise the price impact and it actually determines the price of fuel. So since about now half the retail price of fuel under quotes belongs to the budget, it would probably, in fact I'm sure that by increasing the flexibility of excise duties and VAT rates, look no one says if the crisis persists that Mr. Maric i.e. Minister Maric will not start to think about the VAT rate on fuel at 13% or 5%, that part of the price shock is amortised as it was done, as it was done with gas and electricity. Maybe that's some answer to how to avoid it if there's a recession. Of course, in that case, and therefore not to advocate it, the state would have to give up total excise income. Look, that would probably be if we add up and I say gas-free fuel that would be about 10, ten billion kunas less in the budget. Now, we support the government's beginning to think about smaller excise duties, as well as perhaps part of the transitional VAT. Although I can even agree with the VAT that it may not be necessary to change it so often. Now we have something good about the Croatian Ministry of Finance, that the EU has brought in a package of Repower EU which gives us a clear direction that we need to reduce our dependence on Russian energy and develop fiscal compensation mechanisms. So I'm stressing fiscal compensation for costs and households and businesses. Of course, mostly because of energy price shocks. We will see what we can and how much Croatia can actually expect through energy to call this package. Now, of course that's where we talked... out of righteousness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So those are the classic questions. If the person who drives doesn't have the name BMX, I mean BMW or Mercedes the most expensive and the person who drives Fiat, do you give them the same. So these are the basic questions that are being discussed in this right now. I know that the best thing to do is to solve the problem of justice and efficiency so that transfers are actually the best solution. The simplest solution. Now I also know that, unfortunately in Croatia, this is not possible because of the share of the grey economy and because of the absence of different other tax tools that actually quantify the value of the human property. So Croatia will probably also hope that Mr. Maric taught Plenkovic that the increase in other taxes is not good at this time. These are the basics of economics and that we remain if such a situation happens and what I support from the Chinese view that it will deficit, the growth of public debt, and we have this historic happiness that the Structural Funds of the Next generation and the Repower EU and the entry into the euro area, which I welcome, have actually restored our fiscal capacity. So that's a good general for the state. Now what else do we have here? We have a story about a reduction, and I'm not going to list the VAT on food in general now, so that's where you need to be careful. I repeat that structural change, which is the competitiveness and strengthening of the agency definitely for the protection of competition or competition, is it the only response in the medium term as a structural measure on the margins of traders, strengthening of course the State Inspectorate because it is of course in the blood of traders, in history it is in the blood that they use every moment and therefore logically for additional profit. It's from the beginning. So that's what I'm saying, too, the state has to react that definitely reducing VAT rates wouldn't just move traders in their pockets. And finally, to highlight where my fellow MPs and Sabine and Mirel and Andrea were also very active, once again the SDP club cited the necessity of further VAT cuts to hygienic cartridges for the purpose of reducing menstrual poverty. But the bottom line, so think again about it and that set of measures that we have proposed, the SDP club will therefore vote for or positively for this bill along with these notes that we can't write in terms of... the first part of the amendment, and the second part about hygienic cartridges, we'll sort it out. Here's a thank you, Minister Maric for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97937	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and a respected representative named Brumnic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97938	Dear Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister of Slash Deputy Prime Minister. I hadn't actually connected those two things in a while, no matter what I knew. And actually when you come here as Minister of Finance, then most of us probably think that someone who's doing a good job has come. When you come as Deputy Prime Minister, then I have to be honest all the time I have one problem, which is that this government can't manage and that's the key problem. Is the reduction in VAT rates to certain products good? Well, any reduction in the government's burdens because the state doesn't deny anything here, the state only takes less is good or should be good for the citizens. But what's the key problem here is that this government works based on research and the PR, which this government doesn't function systematically and doesn't think long-term. Why do I say he doesn't think long-term? Because I said in my replica, the moment we introduced the gas measures, it cost us kuna more than Slovenia, and Slovenia had no measure, so ask yourself, where's the problem? The government says it's giving up something, and at the same time 36% more VAT on gasoline today than it did at the end of the year. And then you start asking yourself a question, we're in a crisis, that crisis is a problem, but that crisis is a moment to think about whether we're going in the right direction. The minister is aware of how many times we have been as Croatia and as Europe conducted various tests of banks to see if our banking system is stable, and no one is asking themselves whether we are doing stress, stress of society and whether our society is stable? Now what does the stability of society depend on? At a time when one side's prices are rising, I'm going to touch only gasoline right now, which would be logical to conclude this government? Well, it would be logical to conclude that citizens will find it harder to buy gas for their private car, that it will be a bigger blow to their home budget and that it is a way to reach or help citizens, and a simple even better one to ensure quality public transport. And what happens at that moment? The state does not think about it, the City of Zagreb reduces the number of lines, I ask myself, does someone want citizens to drive public transport or does someone want to take more costs than citizens by still driving cars? And that's what the problem is. Another problem, when we talk about energy and the question of INA, HEP, and we can say the government likes to boast LNG terminal, the only thing that forgets is that it's a swimming terminal, that this terminal is here while the one he's setting fits, when it doesn't suit him if it takes him somewhere else. What no one had any more problems talking about the LNG terminal was a land terminal. Now, the government doesn't give an answer, but it simply sells the PR story that we're safe today. No, we're not sure because in that LNG terminal we don't have the purchased capacity. The purchased capacity has MOL, the same MOL that the Minister gave oil to, the oil that is logically said INA is not Croatian, it is not Croatian because it draws from the Croatian country, and the price at which it was allowed to draw that oil was low for reasons because INA was once in Croatian hands, so the computer regardless of which side you get whether you get through the concession or get through the profits of the INA and the work of the refinery. Today, the oil does not go to the Croatian refinery, employs Hungarian workers in the refinery. And in balances, what I asked the ministers, I see that he no longer has to explain the transfer price between MOL and INA where cheap Croatian oil enters MOL refineries, and expensive contracts from the world market are transferred to INA. It's a little bit about INA. There's still talk about INA. Let's get to HEP. HEP is a 100 per cent company owned by the Republic of Croatia, HEP is the company with the largest profits in the Republic of Croatia. What does HEP do? So he's into gas sales and he's into electricity production and electricity sales. And then you wonder where it comes from? This profit is from the pockets of Croatian citizens. It is not because they invested in renewable energy sources in time, so today Croatia has enough renewable energy sources, but it is practically from rain. Because 60 or 70% of the total production of electricity in Croatia depends on Croatia's hydro potential, i.e. on how much rain it rained. And since the power plants were built 40 years ago, 50 years ago, the conclusion was amortised, the conclusion of production costs very, very little, and then you wonder why the cheap electricity in production is expensive for Croatian citizens. And that question should be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister. Not as finance minister, because he as finance minister is extremely pleased that HEP paid a large profit tax. That should be answered as Deputy Prime Minister. And now let me get back to this public transport. Instead of simply looking at the entire area at the moment when the price of gasoline increases, Croatia simply looks at the whole area because the work is what determines the man. A man has the right to work, so that the work has to get to work. Now if you live I will exclude Zagreb, Osijek, Split etc. Great cities where real-life people live in that town are sort of his job within five kilometers. But what if you live outside these big cities and you have to come to work in these big cities. Then it usually takes you 10, 20 miles or more to work and you don't have the money to pay for the gas at these prices. Then the state should be able to provide you with public transportation. This public transport to Europe is subsidized, very little or I do not know that anywhere is able to be financed from the price of tickets. This is what this government should think of as a Croatian citizen coming from home to work, how to get a Croatian high school boy from home to school. The cannon is your mission. And it's not your job to watch where you earn more on Croatian citizens, because simply higher prices that will arise as a consequence of inflation, that inflation is inevitable. Europe and the world have made money, let it into the system, and they have no way of pulling it back. There's literally no way to pull it. A few months ago, the European Central Bank whispered there would be no inflation. If you put 100 percent more money into the system, or if you give people 100 percent more money, and you have the same amount of product, it is very logical that the price of these products will rise. See what Germany did? They thought about raising minimum wage next year. No, she's gonna get it this year. The minimum salary in Germany for 1 hour will be 12 euros. Ask yourself how long a Croatian worker works, and the same cost of coming to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97939	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that Green-left block. The time will be shared by respected representatives Ivana Kekin and representative Damir Bakic. First honorary representative Ivana Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97940	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs. The Green-Left bloc club advocated a change in value added tax rates as early as October. So, in early October, we called on the government to cut VAT. I point out not to point out that we are great visionaries, but quite the opposite to point out that what was obvious to all of us was incredibly long promoted by the government. And what was obvious, in fact, as early as October, was that the crisis had already come, to gather energy, that the collection of energys would inevitably spill over on everything else we buy, what we spend, what we eat, what we drink, and also that the pace of collection would certainly not follow the growth of receiving our citizens in which we know that in one large part of those receipts are already not actually enough for a dignified life. For example, the average pension in Croatia in 2021 was 2621 kuna, while the poverty risk threshold is 2927 kuna. So what exactly tricks, which have been exactly the tricks since October, our pensioners should have mastered these gatherings and how they were supposed to handel this crisis that has hit us, is not quite clear. What I see from my environment is that they're left with tricks is mostly bottle-gathering containers. And of course from now on, it is clear that we will support these changes, especially their direction, but at the same time we cannot show dissatisfaction and frustration by how late they are. What lateness is the best evidence in fact of the fact that these measures and changes in the VAT rate that we are discussing today are the response to the price disturbances on the market that occurred before the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the escalation of war. So these changes were supposed to protect our citizens from the collection of products and services and consequently to poverty due to pre-war disturbances. And it is quite clear that it will not be enough. Since the first day of the war, it has been clear since 24.2. that further disturbances in the energy market follow and that again with the same effect of chaind these disorders and these gatherings will be broken above all the most endangered among us. For example, on the day when the prime minister presented the package of measures, it was somewhere in mid-February, a little bit there about 20, I think 15, 16, these changes are also in this package, the price of a liter of fuel was around 11 kuna, today it's about or over 14 kuna, so that's the difference, and it's actually the best evidence of slowness, not the flexibility and inactivity of this government in times of crisis when it actually takes more than ever to keep track of the changes, first of all from the perspective I repeat the most endangered citizens and then actually react reflexically quickly to protect them. In this context, further disturbances in the energy market, of course, raise the question of how much this reduced VAT rate, which is foreseen by these amendments to the law, will really prevent or dim and the growth of consumer prices for basic products, because we know that these prices are actually significantly affected by energy prices. The issue is more difficult because the market disturbances in energy prices do not control the end, and the trend in energy prices will obviously be one of the key issues in our northern hemisphere and after the heating season is over. The additional question to be asked and to which there is no answer is what Croatia's position is in the context of food independence because it is certain that war except for energy price disturbances will reflect definitely the price of cereals with the same tendency to spill over the above mentioned increase in prices to other products. So, questions have been asked to the ministries and ministers and it is still unclear how much exactly Croatia relied on importing Ukrainian cereals, but not only imports of Ukrainian cereals but all of those products that we imported from other countries, but which are primarily produced from Ukrainian cereals. For example, most of the bakery products are produced in Poland and are made from Ukrainian cereals that we import. So, what's going to happen to that? We entered times of pronounced energy and food uncertainty and in order to successfully ship through them we actually need a leadership that is ready to react quickly, to protect the endangered from one side, but of course I think this should have been done before, and now it is certainly the last hour, to start thinking about preventing such crises, first of all by encouraging the green transition, it is the only way to protect us from it in the future and by encouraging food independence from the other side. The EU is already sending clear messages that it will adhere strongly and energetically to the energy transition. How Croatia will set up, especially in the context of the costs that this transition will bring, is not quite clear. And finally, we support the proposed changes that are quite clear, but the dynamics of the adoption of this package of measures, as well as the previous experience of crisis management under HDZ's baton which we have witnessed in the last two years, as well as all the issues that we have actually no answers to, unfortunately do not die but are, in fact, raising our concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97941	Here on behalf of the same club will continue the respected representative Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97942	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Tax Administration. Here's to my colleague Kekin, two more remarks. First, with all the comments made, I will point out, we support these measures, i.e. a reduction in tax rates. However, the time ahead obviously remains a lot of uncertainty, especially in terms of energy prices. And it is quite conceivable that further needs for tax interventions could arise, and especially in the budget. It is estimated that this package of measures will already reduce budget revenues by 2 billion and 100 million kuna, so we cannot be asked both ministers and colleagues from the ministry expect answers to the question, how resilient is our budget, how elastic, how ready is it to submit this and other potentially necessary interventions? And will we, if necessary, rebalance it in a sustainable way? Secondly, of course we support a reduction in VAT rates to menstrual supplies. We wanted more, we demanded more, but this is also a step in the right direction and we welcome it. However, I cannot mention the inconsistencies, the slight inconsistencies of the ruling in this case. The proposal to reduce VAT rates for menstrual supplies was already ahead of us, proposed it and presented it and argued by counterpart Mrak Taritaš and nothing in it was controversial or controversial, on the contrary. Yet, the proposal was rejected by most with clumsy arguments that we first need a comprehensive impact analysis. Here we are today, the move has been taken, the proposal has been submitted only that this time the government has done so and we will accept this proposal even though the announced analysis has not been seen or heard. And so once again, a valuable opposition initiative was rejected because it was opposition that the same or similar proposal would soon come from the ruling ones. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it's time to break up with this practice and I hope and I want to believe that we are able to do it regardless of who is at what point in position and who is in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97943	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will now speak the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97944	Dear Vice President, Minister of Associates, few colleagues and colleagues. We are definitely aware that we are all together in one extraordinary situation that requires of all of us new extraordinary measures and that is actually the problem. It is about extraordinary measures that, if we were not in exceptional circumstances, would probably not happen and would not be discussed at this time. What is, the biggest problem is that we think that this, these measures are actually not just mitigation but that, as if, instead of buying a new door, we're putting a towel under the old ones that we don't have a leak. We have a big state apparatus that just doesn't work. That's what I was saying and in the light of my article because we must definitely take care of public finances at this point, that's what Minister Maric stressed and my colleague was talking about right before me. When we planned the budget for 2020, or when it came, when the ruling brought it in, we had a planned deficit of nine billion kuna. It's not a system that's sustainable, it's not a system that can continue to work like that, and in those times when we had a surplus of the state budget if I'm not wrong in 2018-'19, and we didn't have enough courage to bring serious and real reforms. After that, there was a crisis where we boasted that we had 24 billion euros at our disposal and how we would set up the system and how we would bring real reforms, and there is nothing. Recently, we also had opportunities to hear how the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds issued a tender for entrepreneurs through the fastest finger, then the funds were split up to entrepreneurs and after that the tender was simply cancelled and the entrepreneurs were out of a job. It's just one drop in the sea of examples of how the state apparatus just doesn't work. I was also talking about the pension system only in the explanation of the break. We have 1.23 workers on one pensioner, a system that doesn't work. Most of it is leaving the state budget in expenditure, or planned to restore the earthquake of affected areas, and afterwards for social care, pensions and pension systems. We have also talked many times about this year's budget and health problems, 300 million kunas monthly debt to non-resolvers, and that is why I have also told and expected from this pay phone and I call on the Minister of Education, but also other ministers to come and present the reforms in which they plan to arrange the expenditure side of the state budget so that we can then think in the long term about the tax discharge of our citizens. Inflation was 6.3% in February, food and transportation in a year collected 10%. Also in these exceptional circumstances when the pandemic is still going on, when we have a war in Europe that is not so far from Croatia, and we have a tourist season that is definitely still uncertain at the moment, but I am sure that in all parts of Croatia what we can say about Istria that we are really doing everything in our ability to have a good tourist season, so that people can earn, so that people can get a job, and so that the state budget can earn because we know how dependent the state budget on tourism is, and that is over 20, almost 25%. And this is another indicator that the state or state apparatus is not working because simply state finances cannot and must not depend solely on tourism, and we were best able to see it in 2020 when we were hit by the pandemic of Coronavirus, when we had a very bad tourist season, we saw how much this affected the state budget, the deficit and, of course, the new duties. It is also important to talk about the uncertainty and concern of citizens, because since 1.1.2023 we are very likely to introduce a euro that raises a number of issues. The government's communication towards the citizens is weak or almost and gone and people are rightly concerned that the introduction of the euro, although we strongly support it, will affect prices, and we know that something is likely to increase. We are talking about real estate prices here because all the countries that have introduced the euro have grown significantly and therefore I call for it to be very important at this point to communicate loud and clear to citizens how this will affect their home budget. So we welcome, I have said this twice today, we welcome these measures and discharges in terms of taxes, and we definitely think that this is in some way a magic from the Ministry of Finance which I really believe is doing everything in its power to make it easier for citizens in some way, but as I said as soon as we see Minister Marić here we know that the water has come to the throat and is trying to save what can be saved, and we also think that we are calling on the ministers of others to come here before us, before the MPs and that the concepts of reform in their ministries that will enable the solving of the problem of the spending side of the state budget so that we can all go forward together and so that we can further relieve the tax and citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97945	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Miroslav Škoro will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97946	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We regret that the minister had to leave, but like every well-bred man apologized, so here I welcome you and I want to tell you that on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia I will try to see this story in a slightly different context. I usually do that because EU membership has its own good and bad sides. And I think it's important to mention it today in this context because in politics it's a very important moment when you're going to do something, and right now I think that the ruling HDZ coalition and Mr. Plenkovic can be satisfied because this trading majority in the assembly is homogeneous at the level of project cooperation, the mantra is sold that there is currently no one, that opposition is nowhere, there is no one who could change anything, and even in HDZ, that the government is acting in a pattern when the ministers are gone one comes two. The DORH arrests a little, then the courts stretch and release. And so, one of the bad sides of our EU membership is that we need to respect certain laws, directives, regulations, and we are at 63% of the EU's purchasing power. That's where we are. And the fact is that we have to become part of a single energy market and a point, amen, which would say my late dot Marko Gableica called Tatar, point... This is what is true and this is what has nothing to do with improving quality, raising the quality of service, raising consumers, crisis, cold, inflation, I dare even this unfortunate conflict and harsh Russian aggression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, all they'd say is "colloquial" in Osjek gum. The fact is, we need to liberalize the market because there's a gas shortage, so there's going to be a reduction, as far as I know, there was gas at your place this morning, too, so there's no reduction. Is the supply compromised? Maybe I don't know, but for now, everything's fine. Have we exhausted our supplies? I don't think so. I'm talking about gas as figurative to everything that's actually the tip of the iceberg that's sticking out. What is the real cause of the collection of energy, and the gas in particular? Therefore, the liberalisation of the natural gas market because it is the obligation of all Member States to the EU and the harmonisation of Croatian energy legislation is all under obligation by accession negotiations in Chapter 15. That's what we do. So that's why now that blow. There's nothing else. And everything else is stories for little kids. But then what's the problem? We had a regulated gas market and we knew how it worked. Therefore, the domestic gas producer, domestically said it was INA and then under the conditions regulated by the state-produced gas sold to the wholesale supplier HEP and then HEP further did so. Of each kuna of the final natural gas bill, 65% is energy purchase, 12% distribution costs, 3% margin, 20% goes to value added tax. Disabling me. So that's a fact and there's nothing to change is that one kuna, two kunas per kilowatt hour less important. So why is Croatia obliged to liberalise the natural gas market? Since 1988, the European Commission has said in a working document that significant barriers remain in the trade in energy products within the Union. Then '96. In the year, Directive 96/92 EC says that the EU is launching the abandonment of the idea of national sovereignty over the energy sector. Then we have a 2001 directive that says that we should work to further strengthen EU energy policy through ensuring energy supplies to all users, with higher standards of services, higher business efficiency and lower prices. We are part of the EU, we want to be part of the EU, but it doesn't suit us all the same. We, unlike some other countries and even most of us were able to produce over 50% of our needs. They don't. Both the last and most important energy package was made up of 2 directives and 3 regulations and it took effect in July 2009. And when we summary everything in this document, and especially in the one from 2016 called the winter package, it is written that there should be a reduction in total energy consumption by 30% by 2030. That's a fact. So we are asked to spend less energy, and we want to develop. Economic theory and common sense don't know that possibility. In this winter package, the European Commission has also drawn up 7 regions when it comes to regional co-operation and this is particularly related to gas. We are the Southeast region, together with Austria, Hungary, Italy and Slovenia. And that's the bush where the rabbit of this gathering lies. We simply have to do it because it doesn't go differently or Romania is doing it differently, but we have decided as much as with the euro and here that we will, like the goose in the fog, roll out, but it's not the first time in history we just hope it won't be so tragic. And so the only thing I can conclude on behalf of the Justice Club for Croatia is that, which is scandalous, we have known for years that this blow will come to citizens' pockets. From 2015, 2016 at least if not since the entry. We knew it would come to this why now an emergency procedure? What's the emergency procedure for, what are the package measures for? It's like we create ourselves a problem, we shoot ourselves in the leg, and then we market to see what we've done, so it's gonna come, and it's gonna fly like Superman, our Prime Minister, and he's gonna help us do something that we've done before, which means since we got in, but here's the last six years that he knew it was going to happen, we knew the date. So if Romania can protect its sovereignty and standard of its citizens, why can't we? Because we've lost energy sovereignty, and I've already said it, and I'm going to say it again, and I'm going to say it a billion times. It is the key to the whole story of a small non-essential Hungarian company buying large INAs with oil, gas findings in Russia, Croatia. We lost control rights one sold, the other gave, and that's a fact. We became a Hungarian energy colony. We have a court epilogue of everything where the rightful decision has proved that a corrupt operation has made it to the management package and we still do nothing. So we're a good country? What can the state do? So if it's real, it can do anything, everything in the interest of its citizens. The state can build another company tomorrow, but someone should have a visa8 for it. Someone should have the guts to do that, with all due respect to the minister who's gone likable, dear, but has no guts. There's always something called resignation. It doesn't work, I can't, thank you very much and goodbye. You're defending indefensible! So after you've sold out our banks and telecommunications, after we're no longer an antibiotic country, we don't do turbines, we don't do ships, we don't have an Immunological Institute you're letting Serbian capital buy our media space. And you know exactly what the media is in their possession. Sell out our agricultural land and now because of the pandemic, inflation, war, we lose our first monetary sovereignty and you say this law is great because people are going to save because they're not going to collect 25% but 15%. So what's the logic? The lower VAT rates will cause what my mother would say to me here, you're just spitting out a higher level of profitability for the seller, and it's going to violate tax revenues by 2.1 billion kuna. So nothing's gonna happen. You can save a lot more if you cut state spending, if you get rid of earrings. And you and I both know that it's the only way and the only way to make savings, not with this kind of cosmetic that ultimately only fills pockets with speculators, because every expert will tell you that this is pure speculation, and we're her victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97947	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97948	Here is a respected colleague and colleagues, so this law is part of a package of measures proposed by the government due to a global increase in energy prices to reduce or mitigate the impact on citizens' standards. Therefore, at this stage, new cannons or modified VAT rates shall enter into force from 1 April. I'd say there's no one in the assembly so far from these speakers we've heard, so who's opposed to actually reducing VAT. But the question is, is this always too late and is it enough? It's too late, that's for sure. I mean, it's good that it came in any way, but it's not enough. So, no policy that deals only with the consequences of a crisis cannot solve the problem, nor does it fix the standard of citizens even with the best possible measures. Therefore, without changing the model of poor governance as well as stronger controls and revenue and expenditure, they simply cannot be effective in the long term. So, all the authorities so far have been able to prepare us for this crisis, but they haven't. So they could have reformed the territorial reconstruction, they couldn't have reformed the public administration, they couldn't. They could've reduced the pointless expenditures from the budget, they didn't. They could've taxed the work, they didn't. They could also make a proper one-general reform of the Labour Act, however they did not. They could also reform the judiciary to become effective and fair, but they didn't. So, without reforms that have been advocated for many years, always and regularly in pre-election campaigns, and so far, the authorities have never implemented them when they came to power. So without these reforms, there is no long-term effect on the standard of our citizens. We will continue to be the poorest, or the second poorest country in the EU, to continue to be a country that is once both a pandemic and a war from crises like this has passed, so the longest we will have learned from those crises before. So, what brings us these changes? The overall VAT rate remains 25%. Let's remember she was introduced here 10 years ago in 1.3.2012. If we look at how we stand in relation to other countries. Only Hungary has a higher rate than us 27%. Our rate is the same as in Denmark, Sweden, and let's look at the standard of people's lives in Denmark and Sweden. So Croatian citizens really carry a huge tax burden on VAT. This law proposes some changes in cases of reduced VAT rates of 5%, 13%. For example, 5% is introduced, so the extension of the 5% VAT rate to tickets, concerts, sports and cultural events and the explanation is said to reduce VAT to these matches will boost the protection of heritage and promotion of Croatian culture and open space for development and improvement of sports systems in the Republic of Croatia because we have reduced VAT to tickets to these events. I'd say that's a very brave and optimistic statement. Furthermore, the extension of the 13% reduction in VAT rates is therefore also to menstrual needs. Here we had a long debate in the assembly on the proposal of colleague Mrak Taritaš, we have long discussed that this VAT on menstrual needs is put at the lowest rate or at 5%, but here I will not repeat all those arguments about having a girl whose family cannot afford these products, especially those of quality, so it is still considered a luxury, which is actually a product that uses half the population out of necessity. So here's why the government really didn't accept the proposal to go at the lowest possible rate of 5%, so it still treats this as some kind of luxury. It would only add that we agree with the comments from the public debate which state that the VAT Regulation needs to clarify exactly what the menstrual needs mean. Therefore, a reduction should be defined not only for single types of cartridges, tampons but also for other products such as menstrual cups, menstrual washing panties, washing cartridges, etc. So multiple supplies. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, they will have this VAT reduction, so these measures that the government has proposed actually go hand in hand and are intended exclusively for citizens to mitigate this inflation impact, however not for entrepreneurs. They expected very much from this set of government measures, and in fact these measures gave them little and almost nothing. They expected assistance in terms of more significant tax lines, a reduction in the burdens that simply did not happen. They can be helped by those structural reforms we talked about and we keep talking about them, but they remain a dead letter on paper. With the tax cut and the reduction of the elimination of several hundred parafiscal burdens, it would go hand in hand to entrepreneurs and improve the entrepreneurial climate. So this reduction in VAT if it is and permanently represents one small step towards a permanent tax discharge and we certainly welcome it, but here I say for entrepreneurs it will have little and no effect. I will repeat what some analysts say when we talk about fuel prices, one thing already mentioned here, that is therefore more frequent price adjustment, so we should consider the current time frame and price harmonisation process because it is too slow and we are simply too late to cut prices. When a reduction in raw materials prices is announced, we are delayed with their implementation and the famous floating excise duties that would automatically be reduced depending on the price or to be adjusted or reduced or increased depending on the price of raw materials. The VAT on fuel has not been touched so far. The question is how sustainable it is if the world market's oil prices are to grow further, so how long it takes to write here and questions are asked by analysts before the government gives up a 25% VAT rate on fuel or additionally reduces excise duty is given up by a large total share of the state in fuel prices. Therefore, in order to avoid an even greater cost impact on the standard of living, the state should indeed prepare itself to radically reduce its share in fuel prices in order to help not only citizens but also businesses that use energy to a significant extent. So, any of these instruments have been used or reduced excise duties, VAT or an increase in expenditure or transfer to vulnerable groups, it is in fact necessary to determine how this difference in the budget will be financed? As I asked the minister, he is not here now, can be done in three ways or will increase some other taxes, the minister has promised here that at a time of crisis he will not, which does not mean that when the crisis is over, or can be done by letting go of the public debt, so when the recession is usually or resorting to the rise of public debt, it was especially used in the pandemic, or what is here the minister did not even answer that question, by reducing some other public expenditures of these famous reforms, the reform of territorial structure, public sector reform, so the reduction of other public expenditures can be influenced and controlled by expenditures. However, here is how difficult it is to expect this government to go into these reforms, it has not been so far that it is difficult to expect that the crisis will also start with these reforms. One of the tax reforms is also the change in the proportion ratio of local units in central government taxes. I don't know, do you know today of 100 kunas that the state only collects taxes to local units goes to about 13 kunas, 87 kuna goes to the state, and local units are actually the ones closest to citizens and provide services, direct services to those citizens, I don't know, kindergartens, utility services, etc. So, will it be soon, should we expect from this government that in any future tax reform, this ratio that remains for local units will be different because here are the tax reforms so far, even their share of cookies has been considerably reduced and has become in fact a great burden on local units to maintain that level of service to citizens. So here I call on the Government to use the time of this crisis, to initiate the process of reducing public expenditure, strengthening competitiveness and improving the investment climate and the business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97949	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97950	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the past few weeks here in the Croatian Parliament have seen very interesting moments that the complete opposition has been the green one, the left one, the right one, the central one, and whatever the opposition there is here in HS in principle agrees in principle or that it is consensual in almost everything. What does that mean? This means that we are discussing some very important topics for Croatia and for our citizens who apparently generate such a very unique political consensus of all parties from all possible aspects of Croatian politics. These changes to the VAT Act certainly all welcome, it is not disputed, burdens need to be reduced, but still the problem is, the problem is that the government is reacting and doing something only when it is absolutely necessary and when we no longer have room to postpone. This was made clear by counterpart Bartulica in his request for a break at the beginning of today's debate. We ask ourselves, of course, how does everyone spend money from the state budget, whether that money serves economic development or we stand in a place with sometimes and what kind of backslide? Data from all sides clearly speak, Croatia is losing track of others who have reacted long before. We need, in which we are all agreeable again, to reduce public spending, to reduce the share of the state in the real economy, and then to make this scale and scale of savings more important. We see this package weighs 2 billion and a hundred million kunas, I really don't see any reason for anyone reasonable to be against it. But I am really here in a position to ask respected ladies who I believe well know that they have this right here on behalf of the promoter to come and still explain to me something that stands in this bill of amendments, I can't even explain to myself why. So, in art. 13 of these legal changes are being changed. 127. The VAT law by adding Article 4 which regulates that infringement of tax secrets does not constitute information that the taxpayer knew or had to know that he was involved in transactions whose intention is to avoid VAT payments. So here we bring a large package of over 2 billion kunas that will make life easier for Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but this piece of the law is completely unclear to me for which reason he is here right now. He looks very nice here on paper, as the Honorable Minister explained, there are certain legal entities that find themselves guilty or innocent within these kind of malfeasances or by domestically speaking swindling with VAT, and then the poor are in some way accused of not being convicted, so they have problems, and they are not poor at all guilty of anything. I would ask and ask again, forgive me, on behalf of the promoter, for a more precise explanation of why we are now pushing within this purely financial package and this kind of tax change. The VAT law that, with this whole package, I really don't see has any touch points. As for some things that appeared in the debate here, I recently went through Hungary, the fact is both in Hungary and Ukraine at some gas stations is a limited amount of fuel that you can buy, but it is exclusively about stations located near border crossings, and there has nothing to do with money and prices, but it simply wants to ensure that for everyone there is a certain amount of fuel available, there is a crumb just outside the topic, but it is worth knowing. As far as these rate cuts are concerned, we've always been looking for them. We talked from this pay phone about the need to cut or completely cancel the VAT. I personally for hairdressing services, here's the respected head of the Academy Director Reiner was here when we talked about it, we sought, of course, and a complete removal of VAT on all female hygiene supplies, and then a significant and significant reduction of VAT for passenger, liner, road carriers. We know that this pandemic has brought them, too, really, on the edge of economic sustainability, and we've been looking for many, many, many things that appear here, but clearly in a slightly smaller scale than we've asked for. We have a few more minutes to remind you that we are responsible and also to invite Mr. Maric as Deputy Prime Minister, but also our Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, to tell the Croatian people that we are standing with basic living foods, so flour, salt, sugar, oil, what is most needed for everyday life, we note that in the people there is a feeling of discomfort, we do not want him to grow into a panic and I personally advise the Croatian people that there are no reasons for panic at present, but we would like to hear it from the people who are operating in this country to make a nice press conference and explain to Croatian citizens that there is no need to create larger supplies at the moment. As for those large and very large supplies to be held by one state, I will remind you on the date of March 2, this year, so 15 days ago when Mr. Ivan Penava, the president of the Homeland Movement, warned of the fact that the last director of the goods stock was resolved in June 2021, and that there is still nine months later, we do not have the Director of the supply supply, and be sure that we should have it very, very, very, very much. I will add one more thing, when we talk about these legal changes, I propose and demand even more under urgent change or at least emergency application and the Energy Act Article 26, which says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the event of domestic market disturbances due to an unexpected or continuous lack of direct threat energy, etc. etc. may lay down measures to limit trade in certain energy sources and energy measures to limit imports or exports of energy. Knowing that Croatia produces about six hundred thousand tonnes of crude oil annually from its wells, it is clear that at the same time we need to ban exports and one single drop of domestic oil because the quantity mentioned can satisfy about 25%, around the need for fuel, which would nevertheless help significantly correct the prices that are currently wild but also reduce our dependence on oil imports. Our oil goes mainly to Hungary, we've defined the problem here. He bought us a MOL. In Hungary right now, when you get to the gas station, the diesel fuel costs you about 10 kuna, so we don't recalculate it from lip to lip. In any case, the Home Movement Club of course supports these amendments to the Value Added Tax Act with yet another question to explain to us a little more precisely why this tax secret provision was incorporated into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97951	The next club of representatives will be the MOST, and time will be shared by the respected representative Selak-Raspudić and the respected representative of Grmoja. First respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97952	This isn't just one of those topics that we're going to discuss at the same time. This is a key topic for the survival of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. a topic that literally concerns our survival, and in particular the survival of the most vulnerable social groups most affected by this crisis, have in mind what is the poverty rate in Croatia and the risk of growing poverty. In that sense, in the beginning before I move on to the solutions that we offer, because right now it's not just a question that we can criticise from the proposals offered, it's a question of what we would do to manage this country. Before I move on to our own proposals that we have seriously prepared, I would like to highlight the two things that relate to the proposals presented here now. What is necessary and what each country should do during this crisis is tighten its own belt. In this regard, I welcome the government's decision, or a proposal for a decision today held at the government's session, finally to suspend the new employment of civil servants. I would remind myself that in January I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic how many new civil servants were employed in his term and that he did not know the answer, although the state is what he is currently managing. By our own analysis and through parliamentary questions, we have reached the number of about 15,000 people over the past four years. It seems our warnings that such a mastodon and the constant inflow of new people in a crisis like this are impossible to maintain have finally taken seriously. And we're glad about that, and we're glad that the government is going in the direction, and that direction needs to be strengthened, that it tightens its own pocket first, and then we can go in to make the citizens feel the consequences of this crisis. Secondly, what we expect is that these proposed measures should remain such VAT rates. So this cannot be a temporary solution given the high VAT rates and given the prices of food in the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries. And we expect that when we get out of the crisis, they stay like this. And now I'm going to move on to what's crucial, and these are our proposals that we offer here to overcome this energy crisis and to make citizens feel it as much as possible. When I say citizens, I want to highlight not only citizens, but also our citizens who are entrepreneurs, because they have been completely ignored by the government throughout this crisis. The solutions we offer and what we expect from the Government in a constructive spirit are as follows: we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend and supplement the Taxation Act in a way that temporarily eliminates excise duties on oil, derivatives. Namely, as the high price of oil derivatives is known, it has a negative impact on the budgets of our citizens. The second thing is to reroute funds from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and transfer them through social benefits towards the most sensitive part of the population. So this is one of the concrete solutions where we see a space for change where social benefits can be provided for the most sensitive part of the population. And through these social benefits, the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to refund 25% of energy costs for energy threats in the household category, 35% of energy costs in the household category energy poverty and 50% of energy costs in the household category absolutely energy poverty. In the long term, it is essential that the Government of the Republic of Croatia begin to subsidise the reconstruction of the external envelopes of buildings and family houses to simplify the documentation and increase the co-financing rate to 80%. Then we ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia pay compensation for gas and socially sensitive institutions. We already talked about it when you saw individual cases of socially sensitive institutions that couldn't solve their gas bill and thus help the most vulnerable groups of the population. We ask that this be resolved systematically on the trail of the models of other European countries. We are also asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to restore the provision of a minimum filled storage capacity of 90% on November 1st. Furthermore, we are looking for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide state guarantees to companies that have suffered from the energy crisis through the National Guarantee Programme. If the state doesn't take care of the companies that have died in the long run, the state will collapse, and our entire economy will break down. The state does not pay the price to this end but amortises the energy impact and gives businesses time to adapt to it. Then we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend a legal provision that would regulate the unilateral termination of the contract by suppliers in the public service obligation. So that's what happened now and what killed many of our citizens, primarily entrepreneurs, because they couldn't affect that kind of contract breakup. These are some of the constructive proposals. We expect the government to adopt them, and what is important is that we send a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we have taken this crisis and inflation that threatens to take it seriously and that we have concrete solutions to stop it and its burden as little as possible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97953	In the name of the same club, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97954	Dear Vice President, here, even though it doesn't seem to be related to the subject, I would ask you to initiate a debate at Parliament's presidency to end this wearing masks here in the assembly and this provision on the number of representatives of a club that may be there because it is quite clear that outside of this assembly we are hanging out without masks and in a much larger number. In addition, all measures are currently in force because we are discussing where the government intervened today by reducing VAT we do not have just because of this war in Ukraine, but because of all the measures of the restrictions that have been made, then the support that has been made for the mitigation of these decisions, then the printing of money in the European Central Bank in the United States. So we've been rising prices and energy and food regardless of what's going on in Ukraine. And someone's gonna have to answer for it. That time is coming, and we won't stop asking questions. Not only the ruling but also those from the left opposition who failed this test of human rights and freedom and supported the headquarters and HDZ. What, yes, yes, yes, ma'am, just laugh. That's true. So you attacked us here when we were collecting signatures, but despite your attacks, Croatian citizens supported both of our referendum initiatives and we have gathered enough signatures for which we will have a referendum. What I want from this place to tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia that MOST will always welcome tax discharge because it is part of our policies. So, we think when we talk about what the state should do to make the task of the state do less or less or give up what it takes out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. And in the replicas of Minister Maric, and in this apartment that I had, I said clearly that the government takes too much on diesel and on this fuel. Both through excise duties and through VAT. The minister said there is still little space, but there is plenty of space, if we talk about reducing VAT and that is what the government should do with all the measures listed by counterpart Rasdic. And here's what we expect from the government. So we will always be constructive and support and vote for everything that goes in favour of Croatian citizens, but we will also remind the ruling that the measures are not as late as they were late in this case because we brought the governor here at the 9th month's signings and warned about inflation, about price hikes but there was no reaction. So that's the reaction we have here only now when we're actually late because more of the framework that we had because of the pandemic doesn't just affect the price rise but also what's going on in Ukraine. Here in this sense we will be a constructive opposition that will not only criticise the ruling but also offer solutions that will go in favor of our citizens, but we will never, as unfortunately, make the left part of the opposition stand by the ruling human rights violations and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97955	We will now take a short break to formally comply with the Rules of Procedure so that at 1 o'clock we will proceed with the presentation of the position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives as always and normally. It's 12.57 o'clock. We will now return to the points on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the VAT Act and will now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and RF.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97957	Good afternoon. Is there anyone from the ministry, well.../Laughter/... I'm not really talking in vain. So this is how we're going to start with that VAT means a regressive tax and that it's actually paid by both the poor and the rich alike. This is why it is extremely important and important that the VAT reduction barata is carefully meant to reduce VAT rates, and that it is aimed at reducing VAT rates, and we particularly welcome the reduction in VAT rates for those products that are necessary and fundamental, which is, in any case, food, so we certainly welcome that the VAT rate is reduced from 25 to 13 and 13 to 5% respectively for children's food, edible oils, fats, etc., but then there is a question that I asked the Minister at the beginning, why these basic supplies did not include menstrual supplies, we welcome that the reduction in the food tax to 13%, but since it is essential to the basic needs, not some luxury, we believe that this should have been reduced to 5%, which would be, let's say, especially because the initiative was coming and was fought against. In any case, the reduction in prices, which is the same, is one debate that took place here at the beginning in the interpretations of the breaks, there can be agreed on meaning with Minister Marić that it does not necessarily have to come to a price reduction and what his colleague Bernardic said absolutely does not stand to mean that there was a price reduction in the catering sector when the SDPs reduced that tax to 13%. Why didn't she come? I think the thing is the circumstances and the conditions in which that tax also fell, at the time there were a lot of unemployed people, so the free unemployed workforce, the hosts with this means the tax reduction did not raise or pay or lower product prices, but they put the rest of the money in their pocket. That would be a little different, let's say it's 5. Later on, such a measure was introduced because there was less labour force and the effects would probably be quite different, but the thing is that in catering we have a poorly organised workforce that is generally more or less unprotected and there is no leverage pressure, and that is quite important in the situation of reducing taxes, and that we expect wage hikes, that we expect price cuts etc.. We welcome the reduction of VAT on gas that we have also proposed, and this short-term measure means up to 5%, but also long-term from 25% to 15% because it doesn't make sense that the gas has a second rate of electricity. The sudden rise in energy prices on the world market threatens a large number of households, and we can say that it is 2021. already more than 30,000 households were excluded due to unpaid accounts, which already meant 11% more compared to 2020, means 2021 compared to 2020, and now the situation must be even more difficult. It is known that these are the indicators of poverty and social exclusion that we will talk about here on the other topic when we talk about statistics that we are bad, so even 5.7% of the population in Croatia was in a situation where they cannot afford adequate heating in the coldest months, the sixth is the worst country in poverty and social exclusion in Europe, and a total of people are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, as much as 23.3%. So we welcome a one-time measure for the pensioners, but given this data, we consider it absolutely insufficient. The situation has been critical for a very long time, with a one-time measure, the pensioners will receive what, about 600 kuna. Only means that this measure will only cover about 720,000 people, and the vouchers were given less than 100,000 people, and the vouchers meant 200 that had now been raised to a maximum of 400 kunas should be generally extended, meaning not only that we had pensioners who would receive one-off aid but that they would generally mean a census, meaning according to the poverty limit set to 2,710 kuna per single person, 5,691 kuna for a four-member family was to determine that these vouchers were granted or to redefine the status of the threatened buyer of energy. This way, once people will get some help, but a 720,000 gap that will get that one-time help, these are pensioners who have 4,000 kunas the most and those that mean 100,000 that receive a voucher clearly there is a huge gap. We welcome that the government has accepted what we have proposed to increase the amount of vouchers from no more than 200 to 400 kuna, as well as the expansion of vouchers except for electricity and heat, as well as gas bills, but we say should increase the number of users. We particularly welcome the measure that HEP has denied the share of profits, so HEP had last year 2020. ... 1.4 billion profits, but we also warn that we now see the importance of public services and what are the problems with privatising public services and how good it is to have this lever at the moment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have otherwise calculated that if HEP gave up those 1.4 billion kunas and all meanings to its users would divide the vouchers into 2.2 million calculated points of electricity, everyone could get 53 kunas per month for each place. Now you can imagine how much you could make a subsidy if you just targeted those socially endangered to go grant subsidies through means and get HEP. So that amount could be distributed. In addition to lowering the VAT, what we have now proposed and put in the process after the increase in fuel prices, is one conclusion that we consider to be in order. So the government didn't give up and didn't lower the VAT on fuel. And we think it's even good, but it means profit, an increase in the amount of state resources from increased fuel prices as well as from regular excise duties, the government should at this point focus on subsidising public transport. And I'm glad that some colleagues welcomed this proposal of ours and stood in the same way behind that proposal because at this point it's extremely important. So we keep hearing about that we should move to those urban, especially environments where we have available public transport to reduce car transport now is the right time. So not at this point we're tracking down the number of tram and bus lines. The state must certainly jump in at this point especially because it has the amount of funds it can help with at the moment. To me, Maric replied that there was no money, that's always that answer and that now the comparison means from last year to this month, increased VAT revenues by one billion kuna if I remember exactly what he said, but that's still not enough. Because with the pension indexation, we're going to have to separate more money. But that's not true, so it's not true except it also means that we get HEP if we take into account these increased profits that the state will receive through increased energy prices I still have to say that it is that we have had 5 of Maric's tax reforms that the late Ivo Bicanic called... reforms, so reforms for the small bourgeoisie. [[The speaker speaks French, of course.]] Why? Because it's constantly going down and down, it means cutting income tax and guessing to those who have the most, so we're in the fifth, so the reform has reduced the highest tax for those who have more than 30,000 kuna gross. So 90% of the people in Croatia have less than 15000 kuna gross. So we can't just bring down the tiniest layer, so whoever's got enough of this and who's getting a lot of tax reform, means they've been increasing their salaries, and we haven't given those who have the least of them anything. So that the current increase in fuel prices of the sea, it seems to us at this point to be regulated in a way that subsidises public transport, especially if we consider that the gas tank will cost more, means for people between 41 and 70 kuna. If we consider that somewhere on average, the fuel tank will be between 600 and 800 kuna, and the average wage will be a little over 6000 kuna. It is absolutely certain that most people will have to give up their transport if they have public transport as a possibility they will go public transport. At this point, we are calling for our proposal to be considered and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97958	Next will be the club of representatives of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and will be spoken by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97959	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, so we will hear all sorts of things here today and today in the topic and beyond, but the fact is that the subject is therefore amending the Law on Value Added Tax. And I think we can say hello to that part. I can hardly believe that someone in this assembly will be against this proposal next Friday when the vote is cast. We must begin to realize that the task of the budget in each situation is to be flexible and to ensure that all components of society and all functions of the state are functioning. Of course, the foundations and societies and states are citizens. When the matter is normal, we can discuss our strategic priorities, development priorities, channel funds from the budget if they are in this direction. At the moment when our citizens are at risk at this point, we must intervene towards them by giving in, reducing the contribution rate of what we choose by redistributing to those who are the poorest. One of the functions of the state is both prevention and the fight against poverty. I wouldn't identify the pension system and the social system. My colleague was talking about 100,000 vouchers and social cases. Yes, they do not have the right to retire or have that supplement that some pension, some physical damage or so on. they receive it so small that they must also receive social assistance and vouchers, etc. The second is already the second time, the first time it was a covid supplement, now it's a Red Bull supplement or an energy supplement for pensioners in the same amount it's a different story. This includes people whose total pension incomes are less than 4000 and now we have one interesting new figure that there are around 730 000 of the total number because these include total pension incomes including what they receive from abroad and if they are below 4000 they receive certain funds. Is that 1,200, 900, 600 or 400 kuna in reverse proportion, which means lower pension income, higher incomes. To understand the impact on the citizens, on the prices, on the standard of citizens, no one can relax 100%, 100% cancel out. It can be tempered by intervention measures. There's room for discussion here, we should've been before, we should've, whenever people came, it's good because it's better, it's better than great help, it's great power. It's an old Croatian proverb. And to be clear, I've been listening to a lot of things from this pay phone today, these measures aren't being dealt with, and they can't solve all the injustices, all our delusions and failures that we've had in 30 years. The one who works and makes mistakes. All governments are involved in this regardless of the omens and it is a fat human, but with these measures we can discuss, we can cry for spilled milk, but with this bill or these amendments to the VAT Act we will not solve it, so it is a waste of energy without, without any need. This, therefore, must be the change to the VAT Act in this section, which is, not to repeat what it refers to, is a safe help to those most vulnerable groups in Croatia. These are pensioners, workers, parents with small children and social cases also have to buy bread and everything else, therefore through their help and through their vouchers, so this is solid, solid help that focuses on existential questions of individuals, families and society. And let's not, let's not fool ourselves. Of course, prices will increase in the future because labour costs, materials, energy, prices will rise and the essence of these measures is to avoid a strong blow to citizens' standards. And if we come to terms with it, with the fact that there's always an option maybe 15 days ago, maybe 15 days later, then we're in the frame of discussion about this, this, this law. So here he was, it may occur to us that in some future we will have an unpredictable blow to the standard, here it was predictable, there was plenty of time to prepare, all of you have discussed both the opposition and us within the parliamentary majority and in some way we have prepared and agreed on this package of measures that includes, including the reduction of VAT. But were we all, were all participants in this price hike at the same level of seriousness? Is that what everyone was thinking? Otherwise, unlike some others, I shop regularly, I know pretty much how prices move, I know trends in these markets, and about you tell me if the normal stock on food products is 47% or 52%? It was once a price reduction due to the expiry date, today it became normal. What does that mean? This means that in this situation everyone had their own specific interests and everyone wanted to grab a piece, a piece of cake. We can talk here everyone, attack the Ministry of Finance and the Government and Minister Maric, but not them, they can solve something but they can't solve everything. Look here, the VAT is reduced to pellets. Last week I was looking for diapers in Pula. It's a city of 60,000 citizens. There's not one pelette. Well, of course they're all different to sell at a higher price. The price per kilo is almost this, almost 3 kuna per kilo. Is it therefore a particular interest of traders? It's all right. And everyone used this situation. So let's not just say it's the government's fault, everyone's guilty, all of the citizens on the move. We have the same specific interest, each citizen has a specific interest in buying as much as possible for their money, but also traders have their own interests to sell as much goods as possible at a cost. Otherwise, the budget is a closed circle. It is impossible to talk about the budget to make smaller revenues and higher expenditures. If you're cutting revenues, you can't even settle certain expenses, or at a certain point you have to say that I can't or won't get a weapon or help the citizens, etc. So we know a lot of different models. This model of ours is a model of high VAT. But that's why we have one of the lowest, let go of parafiscal burdens, but we have one of the lowest rates of contributions to health care and retirement and we have 2 salaries a year, 2 salaries a year unburdened by taxes and contributions. Therefore, someone must compensate, money must be compensated for health care and pensions from somewhere. Therefore, the budget is a closed circle and is not an unlimited mine, a wealth mine, a citizen filling it, and it is redistributed to citizens and all social functions. Of course I agree here with all the suggestions that this is a good time to stimulate public transport. Surely when the fuel price is high then people should be directed and people should adapt, but whether we can direct people everywhere and everywhere on public transport, in Zagreb for sure, but we have a lot of railway lines that have been lifted, I speak travel, bus etc. Anyway, this would be a lot to talk about, but to conclude the club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives as well as I believe all of you will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97960	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Marin Mandaric will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable fellow MPs, fellow MPs, respected secretary of state. Again, changes to the VAT Act as the minister introduced and said established practice, practically every year. Someone's gonna say tax reform, somebody's gonna say tax cuts, somebody's gonna say discharge, and I'm gonna say here's the change in the tax system. Given that this law, or today's subject-matter, is to be seen in the context of and broad measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken to address the current situation and it is expected that today's debate is not strictly focused on this law alone but also on the other individual measures adopted by the Government. But since this package is practically the only thing that needs to be amended, this is the only reason why this actually happened today, why this government package of measures even happened. So in the second part of my debate, I will look back on other parts of the package to other measures that the government has taken. When it says established practice and changes in tax systems, somehow economic theory is a valid attitude that it is not too good to change the tax system, it's taught me in college to hear it at various professional gatherings, TV shows that it's kind of not good, because somehow it may lead to legal uncertainty for the employers of potential investors, but somehow it seems to me that these fixed changes in the tax system when they go to good, why it's not a problem for us to change them at all, when everyone can expect any changes to change for the better, there will be taxes on the bottom, there will be redundancies as for our citizens so they will see it as an increase in income, general standard of living or as entrepreneurs who will see it in the way of discharging their business. So it turns out that here is Minister Maric and this government, in practice, maybe some old economic theorems may be collapsing, for example, Croatia as often as the tax system changes turn out, it turns out to be better. The Income Tax Act has changed on several occasions there since 2017, 2018. We heard the intro from the minister who was doing it with dynamics, when things were changing. What's most important for these changes, changes in VAT laws down to gas and at 5% in the first year, then VAT is going to go 13% to gas. When I talk about gas, that's not all, is it, and those other measures also for a year have been passed again I say support to both households and consumers in the segment of non-households, support of 10 limes per kilowatt hour for households, 15 limes for non-domestics practically for entrepreneurs. VAT at 5% can practically be said for food, food in a broader sense is now really expanding the base of these basic products to which this minimum VAT rate will be applied. Of course, it is also commendable that the government recognized the need to reduce VAT to 13% for menstrual supplies. And here today we were talking about actually the effect and these changes to the law, whether the effects are going to spill to the ultimate retail prices, so when we go to the store we'll see clearly in the price of the product we pay that difference, I don't know what VAT is no longer 25 but 5%, or maybe those prices will remain the same, and actually maybe the producers, distributors or traders will be installed with a higher margin in that whole story. It's probably true somewhere between each and every time there's been a tax discharge they've always kind of evenly deployed... it's probably true somewhere in between. Okay, for gas we know, for electricity we know it's clear, but it's problematic in the part of saying the goods of broad consumption that are in retail, who's actually going to feel the most useful of this VAT reduction. The minister said that our package of measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia weighs around 5 billion kuna, one of which is to say more pronounced among EU countries, but what should be expected in the future is the coordination and standardised approach of EU countries to similar intervention programmes as this one, but of course respecting the specificities of each individual member state. Not every structure of the economy is the same, not every society is the same that I believe we will never actually experience that we have revised measures in each EU Member State. They will always partly reflect the specificities of a particular country. When I said that I would look back a little bit on the remaining measures that are in the government package, of course it is to welcome what is actually going on in hand and socially endangered, I again say the base of those who will be subsidized by basic living costs and those vouchers that will be able to apply in future for gas costs and which will now be 400 kuna, not more than 200 kuna. But somehow whenever news of these measures was coming out, somehow in the last place there were those about 200 million kunas that were meant for farmers, I feel the need to further through this debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to look back on that part. 200 million kuna provided to farmers for the purchase of fertilisers for the upcoming crop. A lot of the last few days, and there's been talk of rising general costs, rising fuel, growing everything, rising the price of mineral fertilisers. Currently, according to the measures presented, the Ministry has sent to the e-consultation of the Regulation on the implementation of the Small Value Support Programme, through which farmers will be granted those support from the 450 kuna for the first 10 hectares, 250 kuna for the other 10 hectares. By talking to the agricultural producers I know, with whom I live, I can practically say, all the impression is that actually this state aid will be a drop in the sea. Now it's not just about the fuel collection, some small inflation, the situation with Ukraine, with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it's well-versed some of the world's relations on the global market, and we're part of the global market. And, of course, there's a lot of talk about the self-sufficiency of food production, as much as we do, as much as we need each and every one, every country is going to kind of pull back into itself again and try to be as self-sufficient as possible. There is a real danger here that this year, as far as the autumn sowing is concerned, only the biggest and biggest investments on it are yet to come. And as for the spring sowing that agricultural producers simply little if they can say so they lift their feet off the gas because simply the cost of basic agricultural production went to heaven. The government will help with some 450 kuna per hectre, and when you take a calculation of agricultural production, let's say we're talking about wheat here we're self-sufficient, all right, but we're self-sufficient with the contributions we made last year. Last year was a great offer, a great price. Why? Because they've taken all the agrotechnical measures. It was invested in the crop, saved, protected, and therefore the result. In this year's situation, when the savings went to heaven, the cost of the savings went to heaven simply to the agricultural producer to be found in front of the dilemma, if it pays me to invest so much to get I don't know the yield of 7-8 tonnes per hectare, the price of course is not always known what it will be, and I have to invest on average 4 to 5 thousand kuna more per hectre. Taking into account the rise in the price of mineral fertilisers and nitrogen, according to the 15th, MPK, the PKK has all gone far worse. Approximately per hectare, the cost of investment in fertilisers was at 2,000 kuna plus minus 10-15% this year, which is about 6,500 kuna. That's a lot. And the worst thing would happen to us is that agricultural producers are acting market-based so as not to be paid to invest in basic agricultural production, so of course they're consciously going into a smaller yield, into less production so they don't make extra losses for themselves, and there's a problem for the whole country because it's a question of whether we're sufficient in the production of wheat with which we like to boast, and we're glad that we're self-sufficient and will likely come before the government additional proposals [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We expect understanding in that part as well. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97962	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, Mrs. Mariana Petir is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, MPs and MPs, this is the 6th round of tax reform that the government is conducting since 2017. I believe that it comes at the right time to protect the purchasing power and standard of our citizens, and in the wake of the shocks that followed the rise in energy prices, primarily gas, electricity, and food. Although VAT reduction to food was announced only for the end of the term of office, the government reacted correctly with this measure by reducing VAT on food and agricultural inputs from 13% to 5%. This measure will, of course, help citizens most of the time, as a measure of extending the use of reduced VAT rates of 13% to natural gas and heating from thermal cells, as well as other heating materials. Whether traders will also reduce food prices should certainly be monitored in cooperation with consumer associations, and for those who, instead of reducing prices, will actually increase their margins, I believe that blacklists should be introduced. Speaking of traders, I would like to refer to the Minister's statement in the opening section, in which he positively assessed the fact that Croatia has the most competitive retail market and that we have dozens of trade chains unlike other European countries. Although man would think that competition favors citizens because traders will then trade and try to reduce prices, offer as high-quality products as possible to attract customers, this is not the case in Croatia. There are indeed several trade chains in the Western Member States that are mainly in domestic hands, but what is interesting in them are mainly domestic products. Of course, it is influenced by strong producer organisations, well-organised farmers who thus have good negotiating power, but I think that there is a Wednesday except for the pawning of farmers if we can say the generosity of the trade chains certainly had her own fingers, because it is the state that must protect and address its own interests, and I think it is finally clear to all now that it has not been that the production of quality food at affordable prices is something of strategic interest. I will give an example of a survey I did in Belgium as a Croatian euro Parliamentarian. We wanted to check the origins of basic foods that citizens buy, namely eggs, milk, meat, cheese, fruit and vegetables, and I can tell you that we found that in all other products other than bananas were of domestic origin. Belgian since we're talking about Belgium. That is why I think this debate is an opportunity to actually discuss what measures we can take so that at least 50% of Croatian products will be on shelves in our supermarkets because I think it is important to remind that citizens should also be encouraged to buy Croatian because every kuna invested in Croatian products goes into the hands of our farmers who, apart from our food products, store Croatian space. It is certain that the reduction of VAT on agricultural impasses with a package of aid already approved by the Government for farmers and fishermen of HRK 250 million is a measure that will mitigate the impact on our agricultural sector, but I do not think we can stand on that. Fuel prices are up 300%, seeds by 50% on blue diesel prices not to speak. I therefore expect farmers to be helped by an additional package of measures so that they can complete the spring seed. I support the government's decision to ban strategic stockpiles of refurbishment and encourage them to consider the right to buy primarily cereal because we know that as a member of the EU, we cannot ban exports nor do we need to do so, but we need to think strategically and in the long term. I am speaking on the basis of that Bible on grain collection over seven good years and its storage so that when seven hungry years occur, I would call on all those who make decisions to consider possible forms of support, measures, and activities as well as joint inter-resor action that can help farmers in food production, and for a long time there is an open question of renewable energy sources that I expect to finally receive an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97964	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97965	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are aware that the global increase in energy prices has caused a wave of purchases across Europe, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, and a significant part of the cost increase has been poured on Croatian farmers whose core economic activity. The government reacted with a package of measures that you mentioned in the amount of about 250 million kuna for the purchase of artificial fertilisers for war crops, vegetables, permanent plantations. How did farmers welcome these measures and will they at least ease their burden of global price collection in the sense that they will be able to retain, if not increase production with a view to self-sufficiency in the production of food in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97966	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97967	Thank you very much, colleagues. Well, of course we know that any help is welcome, especially in this situation when we have such a high increase in prices and fertilisers and seeds, but also in blue diesel. We know there's no excise duty on the blue elevator, so we don't have any room for any extra grips, so the only thing we can do is freeze prices. The price was frozen at $ 6.5, but now it's gone to heaven again. Given that the interventions we are giving from the budget as a Member State, we must seek agreement for these 250 million kunas, we have been given the consent of the European Commission. A new package of measures is in preparation because this will not be clear enough, given the high cost of spring seed, and in this regard I encourage the government to indeed find adequate solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97968	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97969	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Petyr. The two topics today were intruded through the adoption of this law, the first one being whether it was late or early. I think it's groundless in that sense to discuss, it's important that this is on the table and that this package will be applied. What you could see from your exposure is where the problem will be, there will be a problem with the merchants. They are now creating a problem with both unfair trade practices and unfair trade margins that are huge. So at the end of the harvest last year, the price of grain was kuna and 20, but the bread cost seven kunas, so now the price on the world's wheat market has increased, but it has grown, of course, everything else that goes along with it, and I'm afraid that this price of bread could end up at 10 or 12 kuna, which I think is absolutely unfair and that the price of bread could still cost up to seven kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97970	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97971	Thank you, Agent Ivanovic, for the replica. Well, of course, through this debate today when we talk about reducing VAT, we may be smoking cold, but that taught us the experience so far where we've already had a series of tax discharges, and that's not mirrored in prices. So someone has to say that things are either naked in this case that traders really shouldn't fail this time, or that they should look at the situation and not raise margins, but that they need to reduce the price of VAT on the basis of the reduction in the price of food, because this is the basic intensity to help citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand in this whole package to help farmers. I hope that this will be the case because I see that there are announcements of certain trade chains that they are thinking of reducing VAT on those products that were found in this government package and I call on consumers' associations to follow the situation on the ground together with the government and indeed publish blacklists of those will work against such decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97972	Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97973	Dear fellow Petyr. Here today, Minister Maric said that yesterday's state has received a billion kunas more than last year's VAT, which means that there are certain funds in the state budget that can be used again for various incentives. What would you do now, given that you are primarily engaged in agriculture as the best measure for the rescue of agriculture at the moment, means besides these existing ones that have been adopted, what do you think is necessary at this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97975	Thank you, Representative Pavliček, for the replica. Well, I think it's kind of necessary to find the financial resources to compensate for this pretty high price of blue diesel since we couldn't stop it without having anywhere to catch it because there's no excise charge on the blue diesel. In this sense, it is clear that any support we come up with must be sent to the European Commission and in this sense is being negotiated at EU level on these national measures, but I think we need to negotiate common measures because this crisis that is happening on the geopolitical plan, which has a real impact on all other segments, and I think it is a terrible blow to farmers and we need to find a way to help them carry out the spring seed and make it according to all the standards, so there is no savings that can then again affect the contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97976	Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97977	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petyr, you've looked back on the price of blue diesel. Until recently, it was six and a half kuna, we said it was awfully tall, now it's over nine. Under these circumstances, it will be difficult to finance the spring seed. Most responsible farmers have already acquired most of it, but you can't get a blue diesel. You take it when you need it. But I will look back on the role of stock reserves, stock stocks in the context of some reduction in these market turbulences. How many of you Croatian stock reserves fill that role to buy, means surpluses then because now the wheat is two kunas and thirty. When there was a harvest there was a significantly lower price. It means how many stores in Croatia fill this role of stabilising these market disorders and in some normal ones, and in this too we can freely call them abnormal times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97978	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97979	Thank you, colleague Vucilović. I think the problem is that, in fact, according to the law of the commodity supply, they do not have a role in market turbulence, and that is what we in the Committee on Agriculture have been warning, as we have warned when it was being discussed on the Council, on this package of ZPP, and when it comes to the crisis fund, why it is important to allocate funds to this crisis fund and for which all purposes occur, therefore market disturbances, but also when there are developments and climate change that take a toll from frosts, droughts and beyond. So that's where I see the problem. We should through the law ensure the mechanisms for the stock to be filled and that they can also in situations like this when there is a market disturbance actually give an adequate answer. The government has now made a decision, regardless of these legal solutions, to stock up and I think it's a good decision. But it seems to me that in legal solutions we must be more precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97980	Thank you. Mr. Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97981	Thank you. Dear colleagues yesterday all day was about agriculture and food, you were there from the beginning until late in the evening. And today's debate somehow again with VAT is all about, again somehow returning to agriculture, to food production. It's all he's saying is how important it is. I mean, it's always been, especially now in situations like this. And I'm glad again that some MPs talk about it, suggest, propose measures and just so I think we can move forward. While some of our colleagues, including our fellow MPs, may well have been told by some PR Mags that today would be a good time to call some small press and tell them about the problem of agriculture. I'm glad there are still us here MPs who are always actually on these topics And that's exactly what it is today, and I'd like to ask you just one comment. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] The issue of these unfair practices, not reducing prices but increasing margins, is what practice is in European countries where you have experienced to see it firsthand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97982	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97983	Thank you, fellow Mandaric. Maybe I should just take a quick look at the first part. Of course, MPs have the freedom to be and not be in their jobs, and I hope that they will be judged later on by the voters who choose them. They can also deal with topics they want, sometimes quite superficially and casually, and then propose some things that can't really be brought into the framework of either the legality or our membership in the EU. But it's good while we're trying out of good faith all together looking for solutions. When it comes to merchants, there are different experiences. In some cases, it is the state that regulates the issue of blacklists through its laws, and in some countries consumer associations do so. Croatia decides to strengthen its consumer associations and, for this, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has set a financial amount where it will help them to be able to do so And in that sense, I believe that we will have good information and their activity at a satisfactory level. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97984	Thank you. Mrs. Vukemilovic. Thank you, no more replicas. Mrs. Vucilovic has her performance now. Here, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97985	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about a package like Mandaric said it is not good to change tax policy but it is all true for the normal, regular times and we have been living in very turbulent times where we are somehow going from crisis to crisis. And now that we're looking at this health crisis that we've come from, it seems like a lot of mild and benign compared to what's going on in Ukraine. And those are the facts. And, of course, in times of crisis, we all immediately go to those two key things that sovereign states are very concerned about, which are energy and food. And this package of measures that reduce VAT is something that needs to be welcomed. After all, they have it in their own program. So all VAT on food needs to be reduced in this term, it's part of this government's programme. As for that regular VAT reduction, which is also promised from 25 to 24% of him, we're still waiting, of course, we hope to welcome him, but now that we're all over this with those rates, the question is whether there's going to be any need for that at all. But all of this brings, we must always look at a slightly wider context, so if we reduce all of this, it will reduce the revenues or the revenue side of the state budget. On the other hand, we have this expenditure side that cannot be reduced, we wait for these reforms, reform of the health system, the public administration of all of this we have been waiting for for a very long time and so it will take everything to be financed and even financed now by the defence costs. We see we're missing the anti-aircraft defense, we need to renovate it, we need to buy something new. And the fact is that what I've been saying for some time now is that it's high time some other tax instruments were activated, and that's a property tax because the IRS is on a property that has no origin means for which only 35 million kunas cannot be determined. The result is that in Croatia more or less everything was obtained legally, income tax paid, and all the taxes belonging to the tax, and somehow when you open the newspaper, you look at the media and see that it goes from the affair to the affair. Likewise, when the prices of energy started to be discussed, we had a thematic session, including the price of agricultural products, the free market was some sort of mantra that kept repeating itself. Free market, free market, but we live in a country where 21 billion kuna is paid on behalf of state aid in 2020. What free market are we talking about then? Very much support, not only do you always think it's shipbuilding and agriculture. No, there's a lot of industry and services, we'll be remembered and tomorrow we'll see the plenary meaning of companies that are also in some kind of dispute, etc. So it's not exactly like there's a free market in everything, there's nothing you can do. And the fact is that VAT as the main charger of the budget, which fills about 50% of it simply won't be able to have that function in the future, VAT is the tax which is the most unfair paying it absolutely all and poor and rich and it's high time the Ministry of Finance began to seriously think about other tax instruments where they would have the wealthier little more filled that state budget. And I'm going to point out once again, these changes are not about dairy products, they're also not about what meat processing is all about means it should all go to those categories and should be covered by these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97986	Thank you. Time. Mr. Pavlik's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97987	Dear colleague Vucilovic. Any measure devoting our fellow citizens' budget is welcome, but since prices have already been in force since the last few months since the energy and food products went to heaven, was it not logical that this law was passed earlier, or that it would take effect on 1 March, since government measures were presented in public by half of February?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97988	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97989	Thank you very much, colleague Pavlichek. So I also understand that they took 1.4 because of the heating season and some accounting periods, and it has some logic, but all this would have gone well if it hadn't been for the invasion of the Russian Federation of Ukraine that absolutely disrupted everything, brought in a whole new dimension and actually reflected most on the prices of food and energy that are crucial and that, consequently, they have a whole wave of purchases because with this price of diesel fuel, with this price of blue diesel, it means if the carriers lift the price of course that all will eventually go up and that they should have reacted faster, and that part for entrepreneurs already 1.3. give it I think it is now absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97990	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr, not Dark Taritate first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97991	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleagues. So, surely you wouldn't be here today and you wouldn't be discussing this law today if we didn't already go to the third week of the war in Ukraine, so maybe it would be about the consequences of the crown or the covid, but surely there wouldn't be a debate and there wouldn't be if it hadn't been for that. Now, these are some extraordinary circumstances and, in exceptional circumstances, they are required from every country to react in this way. But we also need to open a topic here for the future and a topic of some kind of prevention. What exactly am I trying to say? So now we also feel a reduction in VAT related to food energy, but we must not forget the businessmen at any time. Who's gonna fill that budget? How is that budget going to be charged? So that budget needs to be filled by someone who's going to work, someone who needs to be allowed to do as normal in these abnormals as possible. We've been working for a while, so I'm curious about your attitude. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97992	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97993	Thank you very much, dear colleague Dark Taritash. Well, in principle, that energy price ferocity started already with the build-up of the army at the borders of Ukraine, and already, after that, the price of gas, electricity, oil, coal and what was slightly illogical to me, and here we also had a thematic session today related to the state of energy, Croatia still has oil and gas from domestic sources, and we are the state that has production and oil and gas. In the end, it's always said that these are stockpiles, prices are like that, but as a producer, I guess we could still invest as a country because, as you yourself said our producers, entrepreneurs are under a great deal of pressure and they can no longer amortize it. So prices have to go up to all products, definitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97994	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is good that the government has now responded, that it has not waited for the end of the mandate for the reduction of VAT on food, because this moment when the reduction is really necessary. We have enough wheat. What we might be able to work on is a question of quality and productivity, but on the other hand we import bread. My question to you is how to connect this primary production to our food processing industry in order to actually keep that money in the hands of Croatian citizens or producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97996	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97997	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. We have talked about this many times already, and we all know that Croatia produced, last year it seems to me that there were 900,000 tunas depending on what the yield is, and we spend about 400,000 tons of wheat, which means that we are more than self-sufficient. So, frankly, we have enough corn and olives and these circumstances and this price increase on one side of this structure of our agriculture and it fits, and I would say that all the wheat 10 days after the harvest has already gone out into export. Now that through existing capacities and silos and mills that are not enough for these quantities that we produce find some balance, it's a matter that needs to be worked responsibly all the time and needs to increase those capacities, not that the silos collapse like I do in Osijek. Because that's where the shopping center is to be built or I don't know the apartment building. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97998	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u97999	Here's a well-respected colleague you said when you said, we talk about the free market all the time, and we see from the free market how many billions go to support a variety of different and how few we have and some national scandals with that, with those certificates, so so much about the free market in Croatia. And I'm interested in your opinion, I didn't get an answer today from the minister, he's gone, so how to control the revenues and expenditures in the budget, and when the government will, and if at all, be prepared to do that, to control public expenditure or to reduce public expenditure. So to go into some of the reforms that we keep talking about, every little bit, and we always find some reason why we don't start them right now, so there's a crisis, I guess, that's why we don't start them because there's no time for spending reduction in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98000	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98001	Thank you, colleague Puljak, so this system of support very often seems to me by that you know we all share similar ones and it's important to have a Joker call, and we saw it best on the charge against Minister Horvat. Unfortunately, there's more. What's key to reform is that they usually work in good times. If, in that first term, the government has made no reform except for the reform, it seems to me that the holidays are now expected to work reforms is illusory. What we saw about the health system is what we saw in this health crisis which are problems and we actually saw that it rests only on the enthusiasm of our health care professionals. Here's the most honest, and some serious reforms seem to me that we'll wait some longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98002	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98003	Thank you. You've touched your colleagues on the spot on the subject of milk. I'm very interested in 2 kuna, and it seems to me that 70 limes is the ransom price of milk, up to 17 kuna when it comes to the yoghurt store who it is who generates what the hands say in this case. This is about incentives. Virtually all except the manufacturer who gets 2 kunas and 70 are foreigners and dairy industries in Croatia headed by Lactalis and the trade chains are practically foreign property. I'm interested in what you think about it and where do you think that price difference is, or who's taking the profits and what the state might or should do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98004	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98005	Milk production dropped 11% in Plenkovic's farm government's past term. So we've got less and less, we've had a time when it's really seriously invested in domestic milk production, unfortunately it hasn't continued and today we have less and less farms and it's often talked about. It's a kind of thing that's not good because in the end the vast majority of this milk is especially permanent that is bought is not even from Croatia but comes to dust and then this and these 2 kunas and 30 don't stay in Croatia but more or less is everything, everything goes to export. Well we still have domestic property of Vindi, right, one big company, but yet there are our primary agricultural producers in a very bad position that's a fact because ultimately everyone earns more It's them. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98006	Thank you, time. And now it's Mr. Pavlovich's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98007	Dear Chairman, representatives of the ministry. In principle, we agree with the proposed package of measures proposed as early as February with regard to retaining the existing standard of Croatian citizens and reducing further impact primarily on price increases. And therefore, Croatian sovereigns will support these amendments and additions to the VAT Act, but we believe that we should have discussed this in February. In fact, the government presented its decision in February half, and there was plenty of time for the bill to be passed and to enter into force on 1 March. Namely, energy prices and prices of food products, but also the service didn't start to grow yesterday, but it has been growing for several months, and this is seen by perhaps the best of the revenues the state has managed to receive in the last 2.5 months or yesterday, where the minister said that we have made a billion kuna more income in the state register than in the same period last year. And now the question is how many of these measures will get the result that we all expect in view of the new moment, and this is the Ukrainian crisis where there has been an additional disturbance in both the food market and the energy market, and how many individuals are going to hunt in the cloudy or whether all of their final product is going to reduce by the percentage of which the VAT is being reduced or the justification that their input parameters have been drastically accumulated and that they are not able to reduce the final product or that our citizens will not feel it on their own home budget, and on the other hand, the State Treasury will naturally feel it. But what may be the biggest problem right now, which is that fuel is one of the main items in the budgets of almost all families in Croatia and with the fuel price is essentially being shown later in the final price of almost all products and services and here the state has to intervene more. For example, from the average price of a liter of gasoline on the day 13 kuna 2.6 kuna goes to VAT 20%, 5 kuna and 20 limes go to excise duty while the other 5 kunas and 20 limes go to the original price of a liter of gasoline as well as to the margin of the merchants themselves. And there's definitely more room here, even though he said that certain entities are coming back later through the return of VAT part of the amount paid per excise charge, there's a possibility through vouchers and so on. To reduce people's fuel prices. Let's look up here to some neighbouring countries like Hungary because this is exactly what we can do to affect the final product, the final price of the product. I am afraid that through these measures and the reduction of VAT, we will deny the state budget for a certain financial amount, and that, ultimately, citizens will not feel it in their budgets because of the overall situation around Ukraine and the constant growth of prices. And it is very, very dangerous, and it should pay particular attention to these anomalies as little as possible because when such a measure is already being taken that will probably bring thought to the vast majority of all MPs that the measure is then felt by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98008	Thank you. The first replica of Mrs. Vuciilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98009	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavliček has touched the price of oil and this structure is, through the price of fuel we pay both HZ and Croatian roads and all sorts of things, it is not just excise duty and VAT is a lot of fixed fees. But on the other hand, Croatia produces oil, so we have crude oil that goes to Hungary for processing. Our two refineries stand both Rijeka and Sisak, Sisak is preserved because there are some ecological standards, but in these situations I don't think it's very high on the list of priorities. So I'm interested in your opinion on what we can do as a state, how much is it our sovereign policy if we send our oil to Hungary for processing instead of being processed into Sisak and instead of being able to correct it here because in Hungary it's a liter Gas 9 kuna and 17 limes. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98010	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98011	Thank you. This is an excellent question, but unfortunately for Minister Coric. Croatia is unfortunately a highly energy-dependent state and is quite little working on real energy independence. Namely, about a month and a half ago, according to statistics, Croats with average salary could buy 643 liters of gasoline, one German could buy 1706 liters, and one Swiss could buy 2748 liters of gasoline. Today, this situation is drastically worse for Croatia, it just shows what our citizens' standards are and definitely government measures will have to go in this direction, and that is, if not temporarily reducing excise duties or introducing a floating excise duty or reducing the VAT rate temporarily at the very price of gasoline or fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98012	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I was preparing for this debate, I wanted to see what independent economists were saying from their point of view this VAT reduction would actually give certain benefits and then I found their statements before the government decided to cut the VAT where they called on the government to reduce VAT. Now that the government has decided to cut VAT, they say the VAT reduction will not contribute anything. So what I'm saying is that things can always be watched from one point of view and from another point of view. But what I think is common to all of us that we really want to see this VAT reduction affecting the finality of the consumer basket. Now, in that sense, you've expressed certain doubts. I hope that we will no longer testify to those situations when traders, instead of reducing prices, raise them because it seems to me that these instruments dealing with consumer protection associations could produce results. I'm curious to know what the situation is like in Vukovar if you've been able to track it lately, is there any indication of a price reduction?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98014	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98015	Well, we had in the vast majority of trade chains throughout Croatia already announced that regardless of what this law comes into force on April 1st that they will decrease already with March 1st certain prices of food products etc., however, the biggest problem is this particular crisis in Ukraine where there has definitely been an additional market disturbance and I think it is right through the consumer association, so if we should go to so-called. list of shame and publish those who do not hold on to this because if this is a good decision and is made in good faith that how much the existing standard of Croatian citizens is preserved then we all need to stick to it and we all need to get through this crisis together, rather than think about the trade chains rich in Croatian citizens and the cost of Croatian budget in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98016	Thank you, you have no more replicas and now it's Mr. Named Brumnic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98017	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the second time today, behind this pay phone, and I'm going to step away from what I said for the first time and try in some way to help these colleagues on the right who are currently leading the state to think about what their task is when they have the responsibility of leading the state. So in a way, when we talk about energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, then you can achieve it in two ways. Or to find oil in our area which is so little more difficult or to use less energy that can be achieved relatively easily. And that's so that we have energy efficient buildings, it's so that on the roofs of our houses we put solars and then ask yourself a question if it's so simple, if it's clear to everyone why this government doesn't go that way, why on solar cells, heat cranes we have the biggest VAT. I propose that one of the measures, which I have proposed, and in the amendment to this law simply be a reduction in VAT rates on these products. Because I'm sure with these energy prices rising, people would be worth investing in let's say renewable energy sources in their own household because it would lower their price, because it would make life easier for them. Then let's talk about the ride. We're all aware here if the price of gasoline is higher that we'll find it harder to drive our own car. It would be logical for public transport in this country to be available to all citizens. What does it mean to be available? That there's enough lines and there's enough lines from every area. When we talk about it, we don't need to look at big cities like these. One of my colleagues said through the fuel price we're paying to invest in the railroad. That railroad in this country is completely inefficient. I think it would be much smarter if this government thought about strengthening public transport to the Republic of Croatia. Then when you look at this bill, and we've given the amendment to it, it's a question of why beekeepers are taxed at a higher rate than other agricultural products for beekeepers to obtain their hives and those veterinary medicinal products. I think it's completely illogical that that amendment wasn't accepted, they gave it in the form of no amendments but a proposal to the government, I must admit I don't understand. There was one of his colleagues talking about both the living and the frozen fish. I really don't understand who thinks it's logical that frozen fish cost more than living fish, especially that there's some kind of cost of freezing. I think it would be logical to even it out. So I call on colleagues on the right to think about how long-term we can protect what our production, what our economy does. We talked about agricultural products here before. These agricultural products or the production opportunities of these agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia are more than sufficient. What's the question is, are we at some point protecting the manufacturer of those products that in the moments when we should have it? The best example is actually milk or cattle in the Republic of Croatia where at times when we had somehow connected production and processing it was more important than it is today and was significantly more honestly distributed profit. A colleague mentioned Vindija, practically Vindija remains our only milk producer who is working correctly with its subcontractors in the process of creating let's say dairy product.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98018	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98019	Thank you. Dear colleague Brumnic, as far as solar panels are concerned, i.e. The production of electricity from renewable sources should be encouraged as much as possible because we are calling for more and more production of such energy. And this measure you said would certainly be welcome to maybe encourage people to invest more on their roofs and produce such energy. But on the other hand, we have HEP that's about on the roof, which you can put 10 or kilowatts they let you use to put somewhere between three and four because you can't be in excess to sell HEP electricity that they pay 0.8 and then treat you as an industry that sells electricity and you come into big problems. So on one side the incentive would certainly be welcome, but as long as HEP behaves like this, while the government's policy is like this that you can't sell electricity into the network and, of course, earn something if you invest there's nothing else to do until it changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98020	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98021	In my first debate, I touched HEP by saying that this is our company that has the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia. Both the HEP and the government that manages it do what is in the interest of HEP, not what is in the citizens' interest. This proposal that I have put forward here regarding VAT, of course, should be extended to many other parts of our laws, as regards HEP, em as regards the promotion of renewable sources, em as regards how to pay and hand over and produced electricity into the network. So I say I kind of invite my colleagues on the right to think about it. The more we produce in this country, the less we have to import. That liberal market story works as long as it works for the big ones. Then when they don't work, they say you're on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98022	Thank you. Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98023	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you mentioned a public transport. It certainly is much easier to organize, strengthen existing lines in larger cities. However, in smaller cities, municipalities find this more difficult to resolve. For example, we in Split-Dalmatia County subsidized non-restable lines and I would say the result was half-way. I don't know how you think that here in practice this could be brought to life especially in these displaced and often large areas with fewer inhabitants who actually have the biggest problem with transportation to a certain content of either school, health or the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98024	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98025	Thank you. It is precisely the task of the state to allow all its citizens to have equal living conditions. That's what the state needs to worry about. In my first debate, I mentioned that the state should create a model in which one who drives such a public transport will have a specific what the lunch says is reasonable, but will have it. And I believe there are entrepreneurs in this country who are willing to sign contracts with the state and work for a reasonable lunch. When you look at one Germany, one Germany thinks its economy is 7% to get enough. Try to apply a similar model to it, and I guarantee you that you will find those who are interested in doing so and will thus allow children who live there easier to get to school, that you will allow those who work to cost less, that someone from Dalmatia Zagora come to Split for work I have to admit, I don't know how he's worth it. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98026	Thank you. No more replicas Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. [[Intruder Brumnić: Thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98027	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, I will refer to only one small segment of this Reduction Act, i.e. VAT. Namely, I will refer to a debate that we had five months ago on October 21st last year when we were here until 9:00 p.m. and when we discussed the proposal to cut VAT to menstrual supplies, cartridges, tampons, cups and everything else. The same secretary of state was part of the debate with us. Namely, the proposal I made in the procedure was to reduce VAT to 5%. This is the lowest possible VAT rate in the EU at least for the time being. It wasn't the first time that it was such a proposal. It was the first time in April 2019, but then the government did not give, nor was it obvious, nor was the proposal discussed. When the debate took place last year, and later the opposition party's vote supported him. But HDZ and one part of their partners were against it. In fact, even as many HDZ colleagues as possible have very heartily and imaginably defended the idea that VAT on menstrual supplies should not be reduced by different arguments. I didn't have to admit that this reduction would come at this rate of 13% so quickly, but here we are. Although I don't understand why it didn't go to 5% as originally suggested. And I absolutely don't even understand why the government hasn't decided on that. Even more recently, Minister Maric, as he said, participated on a round table. Some of the colleagues who were not present in this assembly came to their five minutes of fame even though they did not participate in the debate on October 21st to indicate the need. I appreciate anyone who thinks that's the way it's supposed to be. What exactly are we talking about? We're talking about women's tax, we're talking about products that are intended exclusively for women, and such high taxation brings imbalances, one kind of injustice into the tax system. Women do not use menstrual needs for fun, for hire, but because they need these supplies and menstrual poverty is a real fact, it exists, not only in Croatia but in the whole world. Because of menstrual poverty, women and girls suffer health consequences, suffer social consequences, and suffer psychological consequences. The Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation Parritar conducted studies on menstrual poverty in Croatia. The survey showed that a third of women in Croatia must save on cartridges and tampons, and 10% of women cannot afford them at all. They're devastating numbers from that as much as possible. So when that debate was all of us who were there really the way that the HDZ colleagues discussed it was like that, I felt I had to admit bad because we were pushing for a reduction of one tax that I repeat is a female tax, which does not divide women by the light they gave the left, central, right, does not share, where they live, it speaks and the reason why it was. My colleagues and colleagues, 12% of Croatian women and girls do not have enough products, and about the same percentage cannot be afforded at all. And that's what we were talking about, and I think it was a good opportunity now. I must admit that I remained pleasantly surprised when I read somewhere that in this set of reductions because at that time it wasn't the right time, five months ago it wasn't the right time, and then the arguments were that it wasn't the right time. I said in the debate, you will come to this and we will come to it if not sooner, but at a time when everything that is going on at EU level will go down, that moment has come really before I expected it. I delivered the amendment, which, which requires, by amendment, requires a reduction from 13% to 5% because through, in a way that we really decide to make it 5%, then we've done the right thing. This is what we've done in half, and I don't think it's a good thing that things stay done in half, but they're really done in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98028	Thank you. You've got replicas. The first line was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98029	Here's a esteemed colleague, we've already heard that no one really understands why 13% of why not 5% for menstrual supplies. Here's what to bet on right now. Here's what we're going to propose an amendment to whether or not it's 5% of what you are, if it's a bet how much you type on that amendment going through? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98030	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98031	Thank you very much for asking. So, I absolutely misprognosticate, especially when we're on the eve of some of the choices that we're predicting, I say don't ask me, I'm a bad prognosticator, and I'm a bad prognostic. So in this kind of bet you're talking about 50-50. So we deliberately went with a discussion on VAT reduction from 25 to 5% at the end of the year because the minister had already said he did not want it to be in the middle or at the end of the year, and that is, with New Year's, the new VAT system and everything else. That's when it was enough and you were there with me and you heard all the reasons we had to hear from our HDZ colleagues why you didn't need it and why you didn't need it. And then we were aware that one day it would come and it would be a turn, unclear why Croatia couldn't make a step and show that it really took care of women, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98032	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98033	Thank you. You're colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, then you're a poker player, so 50-50. That's not a bad tactics let's say, and I'm sorry I couldn't be here for that debate, but this way I really support your proposal, especially because, why is it important that the tax on menstrual supplies is really reduced to the least possible minimum? Because it's about basic human needs, so this isn't about consumption, it's about needs, and if we take into account that VAT is a regressive tax, so it equally hits poor people and rich people, there's no such thing as progressive taxation. It is important that VAT is really reduced by those needs, I would say the needs that are really necessary to everyone, so I hope that your bet will be on that side of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98034	Thank you, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98035	Thank you very much. So I'm always kind of hoping that he'll take care of it anyway because you're talking about this, this is about a tax that we call a woman's tax. You only pay that tax because you're a woman, not from a whim, not from something but from a basic human need. When we start thinking about women's rights as human rights, then we're actually taking a step forward and there's something we can do. One of the arguments that was and which I had the opportunity to hear in the debate was whether, even when the VAT decreases will not be reduced in the final price on the market but the prices will remain the same, that we are reducing VAT there will not change anything. We have already seen that it has changed, that there are certain trade chains that are already talking and have an action that says that regardless of how this set takes effect on 1 April, they have already reduced their prices since 1 March. So if you make a good move, you'll change something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98036	And Mrs. McNally. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98037	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, first of all, thank you for starting this issue of menstrual poverty and for being so persistent about it. Thank you on behalf of all the citizens of this country. In particular, I would like to point out again what you said yourself, and I will also talk about it 10%, more than 10% of women in the Republic of Croatia have no means of menstrual needs at all. Well, here I would encourage you or encourage you or suggest why menstrual supplies wouldn't actually be released from VAT payments because we've already argued a thousand times that it's just a woman's tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98039	Thank you very much. So, that proposal I'm mentioning was 2019. He was talking about going with a desire to be zero. This was not possible because without taxes you can only be those countries that had certain conditions, Croatia was not in a set of those countries and could not take advantage of it. Let's say, the Great Britain at the moment she did Brexit no matter what we think one of the first things she did was a tax on menstrual supplies is tax-free, so zero, one of the first activities she's done. 20% of girls who study or go to school do not go to school during the days they have periods because they cannot afford or have difficulty shopping. And it's good that we went with that action did something show up, there's a lot of local self-government units, a lot of schools that actually have free hygienic pads and tampons, so in this group of menstrual supplies and give them to students or students. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98040	Now it's Mr. Michel Jaksic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98041	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, respected ministry representatives, colleagues, fellow parliamentary deputies. Just a little bit of hope in the debate of my colleague Mrak Taritash and all the fellow MPs who discussed it today, and even before on this subject, I must say that I absolutely agree, absolutely support you, to congratulate you on this fight and to hope that as a step has been made and when some have admitted that they have made a mistake four, five months ago that they will also respect the amendments that you have mentioned all together today. As for these changes in tax policy, what I would like to say is that from the point of view of the opposition, it is certain that we support every tax policy that contributes to the fact that citizens pay something less and that their tax press is reduced. But the question that each of us must ask is how long this inflationary pressure lasts, how long are the announcements that inflation is coming and how long do I believe that when we go to the store, we could see that there are anomalies and changes in the prices themselves. It takes a very long time, it takes me to say maybe a year and what's safe and what we could see is that some more developed countries than we have, starting from Germany at the end of the fall, were making some plans that were just about to fight the inflationary pressures that were coming. That's why we're starting today in our debates so that we can support these changes, but we think they're coming under a) too late and we've waited too long and under b) we think we definitely don't work with them enough and we work too little with them. Why are we discussing this? Because first of all, we have one situation where we listen to stories about the state giving up something through the policy and control of energy prices and through the fuel price policy, but what anyone who goes to the Ministry's pages and gets out of the data of the fiscalisation movement per month can conclude and can see that much, much more is coming from the point of view that everything is so accumulated and that when we get to the point where the state gives up something that's not as big as it's trying to represent itself. And the real and clear policy would be, not that we have an interpretation today, but you know, price formation late in the week, two, but, you know, there's a disturbance in the gas market, oil, but the right interpretation would be that the state says okay, we defend that price, and we're going to see the character that's going to cost us. And we don't share what we still earn from the aspect of the price and from the aspect of the defeat that is paid through that price. The second item, of course, is also mentioned several times today, and this is about the price of the basic one we will say the spectre where we also have a big step and a rise in prices and several times we have mentioned today that it simply won't even end up being a guarantee, that prices will fall for our final consumers and for the people we know today and we see that they live harder and harder and more dangerously, and that the poverty line we know exists in this country. Because we can make a comparison today of how paid power is in Slovenia, how paid for by Italy and compare foreign chains with our consumer baskets in Croatia, Slovenia and Italy, and then we will see what is happening and what has been happening to us for several months. We simply think that it is not enough just this but that the state will also need to approach foreign chains, a large capital that clearly hunts in the murky crisis with much more courage, so with much more dare I would say positive impertinence to defend its citizens, its people who combine the end with the end. And what the third person would like to see is that this point is the final breakup point of Croatian tax policies because it is not enough just now to fire and in an attempt to retroactively deal with VAT, it takes a lot more. We need to finally take advantage of this crisis to see how our economy is more competitive through income tax policies, but also what we finally want with our public administration, thinking there is now enough and local and regional self-government because we know that it is reflected through income tax and whether we finally have the courage to reform the public sector so much through the ministries, agencies, that I do not list everything we have to fire some of these tax revenues whether through profit tax, whether through some other things to cities, municipalities and counties who, at the end of the day, recognize it some or not serve very much the needs of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98042	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98043	Thank you, my dear. So at first we should say and commend that we have finally reached a reduction in VAT on tickets to cultural and sports events. So far, movie tickets have had 5%, concerts 13%. I must admit that it was never clear to me, and I didn't understand why cinema tickets have 5, and tickets to the $13 concert and the only answer that was being imposed was that certain groups were better lobbying than others, and it's unacceptable that lobbying would affect VAT for cultural programs instead of being the focus of every policy on the foundations of every society, which is what we hope to agree on science, education and culture. If that wasn't the result of lobbying, then it's even weirder that treatment difference, for example. Film and concerts 5 and 13% of VAT. It speaks unfortunately of complete carelessness for the entire field of culture. That's how one sector was chosen on a flat-rate basis while others ignored each other. The culture, unfortunately, also in this country has never been very good. It's always on the sidelines of state finances and concerns, so a 5% VAT on tickets to all cultural events throughout these years would mean a lot to her. But now we've got it and I hope there won't be any change up but just down. The second item I want to say about is the reduction of VAT to menstrual supplies. It is indeed cynical that a short time ago an offer by counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, who demanded a 5% reduction with some arguments that certain representatives of the ruling party would one day be a shame if they did not. The reduction of VAT to 5% is because it's a VAT that we pay just because we're women and dots. It's the easiest thing to make fun of and make fun of. The HDZ colleagues and the same ones you are now making fun of, in a year you will vote for this tax when the EU adopts a directive and say how it is necessary and how the government takes care of women. When the great leader says it's the right thing to do, then you'll say it's the right thing to do. You're making fun of women who pay taxes just because the women said that, and then Anka didn't last five months, and you're going to vote down. However, according to the latest census in Croatia, 2 million 13,000 963 women live, so 51.7% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. According to research data from the Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation Pariter, a third of women in Croatia are forced to save on cartridges because they are too expensive. Some of them, due to high prices, buy less quality menstrual supplies while more than 10% of Croatian citizens are unable to buy enough stakes to change them regularly. The same percentage means 10, over 10% of them can't afford to make up at all. So, more than 200,000 women in Croatia can't afford to put up at all. Split, the second largest city in the Republic of Croatia according to the latest data, has 160,000 inhabitants, means one whole Split plus a quarter of Split cannot afford menstrual needs at all. And that's what I find terrifying, at least we women should understand. There's a 17-year-old girl who says, and I wrap up no toilet paper. When I don't have it, then I put on a rag or I don't go to school what else, if I have to go to school, then I put on a toilet paper and when I come to school, I ask a friend to give me a bet, that if I don't leak, then I keep it until the next morning. I've got, I'm using a rag. The old shirt cut so I can wrap it around my panties twice. In the evening, I replace it with another cloth and then wash it on my hands to make it more dry. I'm out of class for menstruation when I don't have cartridges or toilet paper because it's hard to put on pants with a rag. I make it up to you somehow, but it'd be easier if I didn't have to go to class normally. And yes, I'm ashamed. And so more than 200,000 women in Croatia. The ones they don't even have for menstrual needs. And why we allow young women in the 21st century to have to endure it every month every year for 5 to 7 days every year. Isn't this girl's confession enough to cut that VAT to 5%? On the other hand, silicone implants and they needed them, and they also have 5% to hit. [[Intruder: Time.]] So much for government priorities. [[Intruder: Mrs. Raukar's time.]] Thank you. I'm done. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98044	No, no, don't leave, I mean if you want to, but you'll probably want to respond to the replica. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, when I listened to your explanation, so these testimony of many women who do not have enough resources to secure the basic needs they need, not out of luxury, I felt the shame of why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been able to justify these changes to the law where it does not accept the reduction of VAT rates to those supplies to 5% even to explain it in a more dignified way than it has done. So it says by reducing the VAT rate to 13% for menstrual supplies, the tax burden would be reduced which would allow taxpayers to decide on their own how to direct the difference resulting from the reduction in VAT rates, not taking into account that it is not the point in directing the savings difference but the point in ensuring every woman's equal living conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98046	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98047	Yes, dear colleagues, thank you for asking, and thank you for your determination. I think, of course, it's about the age-old inequality, that unfortunately, too, in the government and in this House, we're talking numbers and we forget that these figures are individuals and individuals in this case. That's why I deliberately took this 17-year-old girl's statement which, from her age of 11 to 12 every month for 5 to 7 days every year, doesn't know how she's going to go to school every month. I think we all need, all of us together, all of these percentages and all those numbers to turn into scales of fate, and I believe that then we will be more humane and closer to the citizens and solve their real, true problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98048	Now there's no more replicas. Thank you. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98049	Ladies and gentlemen, in our Croatian Constitution, it is written that tax policy must be fair, as tax burdens must be said, and fairly distributed. Fairly distributed means having equal treatment before the law regarding the payment of taxes or the consumption of certain tax support. Because a teacher, a farmer or an engineer before receiving personal income must first pay taxes. It's automation. In Croatia, unfortunately, we are witnessing an open tax injustice because this teacher farmer or engineer is a secure payer in the budget, but none of them, for example, is a beneficiary of HBOR's credit. And as we know, HBOR shares loans guaranteed by the state budget in a 100% amount. However, the HBOR has almost three billion kuna credits that have come and are not charged. The question is, who are these entrepreneurs who have received preferential loans from HBOR and do not pay them. Another logical question to ask how many of these loans have been forgiven in the last 10 years or how it is professionally called off. Because what HBOR writes off must be paid by a farmer from the parish or a guest from Zadar by paying his taxes, of course, and this is exactly the key issue for the state of Croatia. Here is the present representative of the Ministry of Finance, his minister and other close associates who should take care of the efficient and good management of the funds of Croatian citizens and the fair tax policy they are doing exactly the opposite. In a very non-transparent way, they are brutally dealt with with by a large majority of Croatian citizens, while at the same time applying special regulations to the privileged, narrow caste and allowing them shameless wealth. The Ministry of Finance has different supervisory services, and employees who work in these services, and we witness the unprecedented robbery of the Croatian budget. Let us take the last affair related to former Minister Horvat in which Milorad Pupovac and Deputy Prime Minister Slobodan Milosevic paid off their incentives to their friends who were not planned at all in the budget. How is that possible if there is a budgetary supervisory service at the Ministry of Finance, which she did. It's clear to everyone that if someone doesn't pay taxes, they have to pay more automatically, because they have to pay what this guy doesn't pay. We all know and we are being tested by all the serious international economic institutions that we have too high taxes for both citizens and the economy. A reason? The reason is very clear. Because if only the Croatian taxpayers pay 6 billion kuna for the Oil, then it is clear that someone must finance this shamelessly high corruption. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance is anti Robin Hood. For ordinary citizens, the law applies, one law that no one, no one in Europe or in the European Union, which is brutal and unfair. In this law, even the smallest amounts are forced to be charged with an incredibly high fee only for the executive procedure. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance and the HANFA State Agency protect the interest agencies from robbing Croatian citizens with open criminal acts of vegetables. By the way, one of the HANFA chiefs is Minister Zdravko Maric's sister, and HBOR's head is Minister Zdravko Maric's godmother. We can conclude that against the constitutional tax injustice spiced with open corruption and nepotism destroys Croatia's state, and disproves the vast majority of Croatian citizens. These changes to the law will have no effect on Croatian taxpayers. Croatia needs a complete shift in tax policy, especially in real application of tax laws. These changes, of course, cannot be carried out by persons who have proven to be deeply encumbered in corruption, specifically Minister Zdravko Maric and his boss Plenkovic. But the time of the billing must come.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98050	Okay. As you've seen, I haven't interrupted you from looking this instrumental but... The value added tax law is not mentioned once, and that is the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just want to say that let's keep it in the record. But now you have an opportunity to respond to the replica of the gentleman... to mention him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98051	Excuse me, were you talking to me about something about my exposure? I didn't understand. [[Intruder Radin: Is yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98052	.../Intruder Radin: So you didn't mention the Law on Value Added Tax, you spoke all about other things./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98053	You're calling me in if I wasn't talking about VAT? So I am going to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that all this I have stated in my debate is why the Croatian budget is constantly in such a catastrophic state and why Croatian citizens are having a hard time living here in HS, ruling fog with some VAT rates instead of standing up for the defense of Croatian citizens and stopping the corruption in which they themselves are wet. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, it is.]] The EU has attested 60 billion...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98054	Ma'am, ma'am, it's over, ma'am. It's over. I'm gonna have to give you a warning. Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98055	But do not warn me of things that are not related to my argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98056	Because you, because you, you don't pollute with me, but with the Rules of Procedure of HS...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98057	Well, then I suggest you listen to the video of my speech, because I was very much in the dark.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98058	...which is, which is, which is organic law. That's what I want you to know. With me, you can paralyze as much as you want, but with the law, you can't. Mr. Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98059	You mean with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98060	With the job, it's the law, the Rules of Procedure is the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98061	I was in line with the Rules of Procedure in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98062	And that, and that organic law, because it's being passed with most of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98063	I invite you to listen carefully to my debate next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98064	Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98065	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Caroline, you've touched a dimension here that many people are afraid to touch and talk about. I am convinced that if we could bring it down to zero, the VAT rate in Croatia could be 15% for everything that's being spilled. It is not just your claim now, so there is some evidence of foreign services to steal 60 billion in Croatia, which is significant in comparison to the Croatian budget and certainly this is the topic, but perhaps not everyone understands what you wanted to say. But as far as HBOR's credit is concerned, many farmers can't get it because they don't have a good enough relationship or it's so much paperwork, and I know for many that they haven't returned it, that it's written off and that it's raising their competitiveness because it's really important funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98066	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98067	Thank you, dear colleague Lenart. Yes, as far as HBOR's credit is concerned, and it is very important that we remind Croatian citizens of two cases that the Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric, has done very well because he is the chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board. The first case is the Krsh-Paden case. At the moment that the project had actually failed because it was late and precisely because of these delays it should have been broken the contract with the state then HBOR awarded the failed project 600 million kuna loans to HBOR. And another case we must never forget is the same thing with current Finance Minister Zdravko Marić's 900 million kuna credit at the time for Agrokor, when even the CNB and international institutions found that Agrokor should not be credited, all on the burden of Croatian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98068	Thank you. I let you say everything you had to say and this one is on, I let it, now it is, but I said what I mean. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98069	Thank you. Here, I won't be long. I'm just going to take the opportunity to once again invite everyone to support an amendment that will put VAT heights on menstrual supplies with 13% as much as these amendments are expected to 5%. We've been talking about this for a long time, here's what I call on all those who realize that it's no luxury of women but of necessity, so that I can't choose whether or not to use it, that there are young girls, girls, girls who can't afford it or at least those quality products I can't afford. So here's when we're changing and changing the emergency procedure in this crisis and reducing VAT amounts here's to whether there's one big step forward, so we're going from 13 to 5%. And one more thing, so I won't be longer about it, and I really invite you here to, when it comes to voting next week, to be in solidarity with 50% of the population of Croatia. And one thing I've been commenting on is that we should take care of the revenue and expenditures of the budget, so how to compensate, make up for this difference, who's going to finance the difference that's going to arise in the budget because of the cuts or fees if they ever happen or the VAT and the increase in some of the expenditures by transferring whether it's different groups. So what I commented with the minister is that these expenditures are either compensated by increasing some other taxes or reducing some other public expenditures or deficits or by letting the public debt go, the minister said and promised that there would be no increase in some other taxes. As far as public expenditures are concerned, public administration reforms, reforms I don't know the structure, territorial structure, etc. Here it was heard here and from this stage, from the assembly here that the crisis is not the time for these reforms, but actually here is never the time for reform. I'd say that even at the time of the fire it's also time to build fire protection, so then this time should be used to start these things. As for the deficit and the growth of public debt, perhaps today we can cry for that time in the time of that crisis in 2008, whether or not until 2014. when the ratio of public debt and GDP was about 34% and 35%, then it was 7-8.g. It has grown to catastrophic whether almost 90% of GDP is close. We have become the most indebted state of Central and Eastern Europe, we have almost reached the edge of whether our own fiscal capacity, and here's to someone like the analysts themselves saying here we are touched with some kind of historical happiness because we can thank that here are the resources of various structural funds and various financial envelopes helped to actually restore this fiscal capacity without significant economic growth, because economic growth is not enough. The growth we boast about here isn't really a growth that we can catch up with the neighboring countries or countries that are our role models, and we often refer to them as an example. So, here's another support for the amendment, and anyway, apart from reducing this VAT, let's finally introduce these floating excise duties, and that's how we affect the fuel price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98070	Thank you, too. Mrs. Grozdana Peric is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98071	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the VAT Act which, as I said in the Replica Minister, is one of the most frequently amended laws and since 2017, we have had intervention in VAT each year, so this also speaks of the needs of the budget and fiscal capacity to improve certain measures. Since 2013, we still have a general VAT rate of 25%, but they have changed significantly in the categories of lower rates of 5 and 13%, and I have to say that since 2017, a lot of shifts have been made in the sense that tax bonds of the category of registration in VAT have been from 300,000 earlier, and it is also possible that what has been made with the recent changes last year is the possibility of paying for the paid realisation, which has very much meant to entrepreneurs, and that threshold has changed from three million to 7.5, and now to 15 million kuna since 2021. This has led entrepreneurs to collect, and also to reduce demand in the internal system at all. What I would like to point out, and some of my colleagues mentioned that this intervention did not cover food or milk, dairy products, then there were talks about bread, cheeses, etc. However, all of this had already been covered by previous amendments to the law so that it was also a valid 5% and now exactly on these and such products. So now it intervened on all of the remaining food products that were covered by 13%, and now they're down to 5%. What should also be said is that this reduction is expected in total for about 2.1 billion kuna, so a reduction in VAT revenues, which is essentially expected to be the tax discharge of citizens and the economy, which will actually ease the collection of energy prices. These energies here, therefore, gas in this year's period until April 2023 will be 5% VAT rates, and later it will be 13% as it is for electricity. It is important to say that electricity in this way would actually add 9.6% instead of 23% as otherwise expected without this intervention or gas by 16% instead of 79% of how planned it was to happen if there was no intervention in excise duties and VAT. So that's what I'm saying is that it's precisely in this period to take very good care of the standard of citizens, and also when we talk about the VAT itself, which is the highest tax from it, it's very much serviceable to significant attitudes, and it's important to say that in this way interventions are huge and that they are improving with this package in a very good way the standard of society and purchasing power, and primarily they are amortising precisely these pressures that are due to the increase of energy prices on the world market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98072	Mrs. Raukar Gamulin's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98073	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Today, the fact that 200,000 women in the Republic of Croatia do not have any funds for menstrual supplies is repeatedly presented, you are a woman probably have young girls in your family, daughters, nieces, do you think that the Republic of Croatia is a social state if 200,000 women today do not have basic menstrual supplies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98074	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98075	I believe that Croatia is a highly socially sensitive state and that we as a people are such and I personally don't know where and how these researches have been carried out to tell you I'm not sure if it's exactly the right number, but I think there is always a way to help young girls and women, anyway, it is envisaged through various measures, through schools, institutions. So there's a possibility of how this can be solved and I don't think that there should be anyone in any way discriminated against that woman or because she's a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98076	Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Oh, I'd like to hear a comment from you from my colleague, Peric. Today, we have heard several times from fellow MPs, particularly from the opposition that these measures are too late, that they are not well balanced about the reduction in VAT itself and that they will not give effect exactly as they should be because some colleagues say they are too late. I personally think they're well-dimensional, they're on time, and they're going to give one first effect to which the government is sure to count, but we don't know how long this crisis is going to take, so we can't even dimensional all the crisis that can possibly wait for us in the future. We know for ourselves that the war is still lurking in Ukraine, and it can also happen, we may have that we have great repercusions on tourism. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98078	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98079	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, I also think that the measures and interventions that are being taken are neither inequitable nor that they are not dimensional in the right way. However, I was just saying if the intervention was a change to the VAT Act were constant in '17, '18. So by this year, they follow each other very closely. And throughout this period exactly as they are being monitored and, as both public finances and standards and increasing the available income and various measures which have increased income and compensation, so consumption has increased in spite of the reduced rates that have been made since 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98080	Mr. Mato Chichak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98081	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, do you think it is possible to further reduce VAT at this time given all the circumstances that have been following us for the past few years, but only this state in the world. And given all of that, can you briefly tell us what's being financed from that VAT to get the impression that it's really possible to reduce it to, to, like, how the opposition claims or, or think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98082	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98083	Thank you very much. Well, I think that the government, in particular the vice-president of the government who is in charge of this portfolio, has to assess as well as how possible and to what extent it is possible to lower the VAT, given this and this has been reduced directly, but also a package of measures that helps the population and the economy to withstand this economic crisis, so this 5 billion needs to be found out from all these funds. In addition, the public must know that over 16 billion missing pension incomes are financed from VAT, that healthcare is financed, that social benefits are financed and so on. Hence, there is a lot of need, and this is why it is very important to be very careful about planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98084	Thank you, thank you very much. You have no more replicas, and now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will also say that these amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax are and represent the realisation of the Croatian Government's economic package, which, in financial terms, amounts to 5 billion kuna and which the package is trying to do, and I think in part and manages to curb the impact on the lives and standards of our citizens, and which is impacted primarily by the growth of energy prices on the world market, and clearly by the reflection that this, this increase in energy prices has towards inflation growth in both the world and Croatia. And in that sense, one of the most important legislative acts is the Law on VAT Amendments. This package was in fact intended and intended to help and cover the entire households, i.e. all of the Republic of Croatia's inhabitants and one part of the entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia who, with this package, are covered by this package and, above all, by micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And it is through the package itself and designed with a different package of measures, in which Croatia's electricity is participated and, above all, the state budget. What is important to say, and what may be a response to the proposals and queries that were proposed and proposed by opposition deputies during the morning, is the fact that we mention little of the social package that makes up these economic measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. In fact, it is a total of 850,000 of our citizens who through this package are involved in different kinds of assistance. Whether it is an extension of social benefits through vouchers and the expansion of packages, as well as raising the amount of vouchers on the one hand. On the other hand, the energy package, energy, energy support for 720,000 Croatian pensioners, and I think that this payment will begin sometime in April for all pensioners lower than 4,000 kuna. And the third part would refer to the recipients of social services, and there are about 46,000 of them that are taken care of in retirement homes, which will also provide better, stronger support from the state budget through the package. However, all of this together, all of this together seems clear to me well targeted, but today we are talking about one measure that is practically in most of the part of the participation in these 5 billion, and it is 2.1 billion kuna to reduce the revenues of the state budget from the aspect of the value added tax. I am during the morning, we heard from the minister that in the first two months about a billion kuna more value added tax was made available, which can clearly be the result of an increase in the volume of goods and services, on the other hand of clear inflation and price increases, and then clearly what indirectly brings, leads to an increase in VAT in the state budget. But what I was then asking as a question with which I wanted to stress that, it is true that the increase in VAT revenues comes as inflation occurred in the Republic of Croatia and the rise in prices of services and products, but on the other hand through the rise in the revenues of the state budget with the basis of the contribution of 700,000 kuna, above all I am talking about the economic activities that are greater, the stronger the more it speaks about the growth of the Croatian economy on the one hand and the growth of salaries in the Republic of Croatia. So we at this time when, when faced with the impact on living standards, with the difficult conditions of business in Croatia are obviously through these two months that are behind us growing Croatia's economy remains evident. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98086	The first replica, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98087	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here today we listen to what the government is trying to do to make certain moments easier for the citizens who may be performing at this time ahead of us, as to the increase in certain prices. But I, too, have been through this whole time as long as this debate is going on, it's already taking a few months to ask and what local self-government can do. Let's say one City of Zagreb with a fiscal capacity of nearly 19 billion kuna making the city hold. We witness quite the opposite process, the gathering of utility services. There are no measures for those who are threatened, and now that we're talking about entrepreneurs and let's say the gas whose accounts have been laid out, noting that they can pay for the wars. And we're listening to some representatives in their town today who don't know, but they know everything at the state level. I'm asking if they have any solutions so they can tell you to the entrepreneurs we've collected the gas we might be able to extract 100 million kunas, we'll subsidize and help you survive in your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98088	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98089	Thanks to my colleague, Boris, we are the two of us if you do not have a press conference in the Croatian Parliament before the month will be when the basic package of economic measures has been adopted and then you have called from the pay phone downstairs in our hall all cities and units of local self-government and cities in Croatia to join and give their contribution to reducing the impact that energy prices will generate in Croatia, and then clearly and thus to increasing the amount of municipal fees and all those, transportation of garbage, etc., all that brings with them the rise of energy prices. As far as I'm concerned, and I don't think I'm wrong, I haven't heard that at the level of the City of Zagreb as the most powerful city and unit of local self-government in Croatia that measures were taken that would in any way be included in this package of measures, so here comes Mrs. Urša Raukar Gamulin. suggested that such a performance as it has here also on the neighbor's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in a neighboring pay phone across from Mark's square. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98090	Mrs. Big Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98091	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic, therefore, all measures aimed at reducing the impact on citizens' standards have come well, but fuel is the driver of everything. So both in real and transmitted terms, the fuel is the driver of everything and of course here I welcome the tax reduction both on tickets and on briquettes, on vegetables, but even so that all these products would be delivered, distributed and actually available to citizens is ultimately the most needed fuel. And that's why here's why, that's why just reducing the fuel price would be crucial. We heard from the minister this morning that we can't exactly react to VAT, but do you, as if you're part of the ruling majority, think about some of the models that we have in Austria and Germany, where the price of fuel on a daily basis even a few times in the day can be corrected. So maybe, maybe we have some analysis that might have more impact and that would be more common. Had lower prices. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98092	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98093	Thank you. As you know, colleagues in Croatia, as you know, the system of pricing energy, first of all, oil and oil derivatives is defined once a week, on Tuesdays, in a way to monitor the weekly status of the price of crude oil on the Mediterranean market and in relation to the trend of these prices based on the formula already established on Monday, about how much the price will be on Tuesdays of these same products. According to what we are following now and how we are now, it is very likely that this price will fall on Tuesday, that it will even be lower, and it seems to me that there is an increase in crude oil for the remaining 2 days. As for the price of oil in Croatia, we have long been determined in a way that we will finance the most important infrastructure transport projects in part in fuel consumption and that is what makes the difference between Croatia and other countries that have a slightly lower price of oil than Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98094	Thank you, time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98095	Thank you. Dear fellow, here's that this package of measures really is well balanced and timely is the fact that our opposition today is the only argument against saying that it wasn't in time, but it would remind you of the recent situation with Sberbank when our government really reacted quickly to protect the roles of our citizens and entrepreneurs in the way that the HPB took over the Russian bank and that in a transaction worth 71 million kuna, which protected the property of our citizens in the amount of 8 billion kuna. Of course, all deposits are less than 100,000 kunas protected in banks, but if the instrument was activated, there would certainly be a deterioration in the financial market. This way they are protected, and those deposits that are beyond that amount are protected, so please comment on that timely response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98096	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98097	I would like to thank my colleague, Pocrnic Radošević. Yes, I agree with you that the government reacted in good time with the package of measures and even seems to me within the appropriate time period since, that the energy that these packages have, whose price has been changed in a way that the support is secured through HEP or through a reduction in VAT prices for our households, had no impact since the contracted price was until 1 April. Therefore, on April 1st, it is not and still ahead of us and we have enough time to vote on this law next Friday, and on the other hand, the economy is, above all, what could and should have had the support of JLS, and I think there should have been a reaction much faster and much stronger than what we are witnessing, and we are witnessing a strong rise in the price of gas right in the area of the City of Zagreb and entrepreneurs who are sitting here and working here and doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98098	- Mrs. Crescent. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98099	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bačić, I am pleased that you mentioned and highlighted the social component of the government's package of measures, which means that our pensioners who receive pensions below 4 thousand kuna will receive a one-off amount of up to 1,200 kuna. I'm also glad that you also mentioned that the increase in the price of gas thanks to the government's package will be minimised and will be this increase according to HERA's calculations 16%. In relation to all other Member States, this is indeed the least. However, what I would really like to hear from you is that you stress the exceptional importance of LNG terminals on the island of Krk in Omislje since we know that our colleague from the SDP has been opposed in a timely and exceptional manner and has even threatened to throw himself under the banners because of it, so please, so please stress once again that strategic importance of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98100	Thank you very much, thank you, time. Here's your answer. What? From who? ... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98101	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President HS has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238. My colleague Majda Buric, I did not realize that today we are discussing a package of measures by the government of the Republic of Croatia, discussing amendments to the VAT law. I would ask that when you warn some colleagues you also warn a colleague from the ruling majority not to stick to the subject. I also didn't realize that we were talking about Mirela Ahmetovic, so we're talking about amendments to the VAT Act. , and other than that [[Thank you, ma'am. Ahmetović/]] Before you comment on what I've been and what I've been for. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98102	Ma'am. Ahmetovic, you have a warning, ma'am. Ahmetovic has a reminder of one, one. But you know what, but what really brings me to some situation that I wouldn't want to define is that it's about the law, and we all say that in civilized countries you have to stick to the law. No, no, you said yes, which I don't care if I have a warning, so one, two, three warnings that I care about. You should be and it's a violation of the law, that's all I'm saying, you have one warning, not two, one, you wanted two, I'll give you one. Here's your answer. Who was it, someone else? So come on, please. You can, and who, listen it's your right. [[I'm a bencher. Yes, ma'am. Majda Buric, breach of the Rules of Procedure/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98103	Thank you. I'm calling in an article. 238, so Mrs. Ahmetovic was caused by nothing, I did not mention you by name and last name, but that you were precisely recognized because you were the one who wanted to throw yourself under the banners, which is why, because the government of the Republic of Croatia wanted to and managed to achieve the National Strategic Project of the construction of LNG terminal in Omislj on the island of Krk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98104	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much. Everyone's right, the same thing I said to Mrs. Devereaux. Ahmedtović, it's exactly the same for you and of course you have a warning, but I don't want to be arrogant about anything right now. I'd like to propose it to Mrs. Devereaux. Ahmetovic, if we didn't go further with this controversy, I would suggest that because she just doesn't have it, it doesn't make sense. Among other things, for environmental reasons, many have voted against LNG terminals and you present here is that, so this one, we don't have this one about it. Every vote based on what he thinks is right at this point, that they're important reasons, is now war and now we see that the different reasons are that I think so, and now he's sure that Mrs. Ahmetovic voted differently than he did then. I would, and I would, okay. I'd be fine, but father right, father right, you know the warning is whether it's, it's fine, go ahead. ... No, no, go ahead, go ahead. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] It has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98105	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure of Article 238, my colleague Buric, I am pleased that you have followed my fight for the legality and legal implementation of the LNG terminal project. And that I'm standing for today's legitimate land terminal project. Read the laws. Speaking of context and subject, I'd be happier to ask the question of why an illegal floating terminal stands under the flag of the Marshall Islands and may it be because of tax evasion to its own country, contrary to the law. on the natural gas incinerated terminal. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98106	Second warning, second warning for what it was about the replica. And now the replica finally, no. You have the answer, you have the first answer, yes. [[Agreement: Answer, Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98107	I thank my fellow Buric, you were absolutely in the topic. Why? Because we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax which was the law on the implementation of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which you mentioned. So it's absolutely in the topic, and you were particularly in the topic when you mentioned, when you mentioned the LNG terminal because today we're talking about reducing VAT to gas from 25 to 5%, and from the following year on April 1st to 13%. And when we talk about gas, then nothing is normal but a reference to the supply of RH gas, which is precisely due to the construction of the LNG terminal you mentioned in Croatia. The terminal's capacity is 2.6 billion cubic metres of gas, which places Croatia in those countries that are self-sufficient. My colleague Ahmetovic was in favour of building a land terminal that's true, I've talked to her many times about it, but what she stood for in this crisis It wouldn't have anything to do with it. [[Intruder: Time, time.]] And that's her crime scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98108	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev, about my apologies, the Rules of Procedure, yes, but good, smart. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, with amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, is most helpful to the end-user, but also to certain activities, and with the package of measures the government envisaged special assistance for pensioners, especially farmers, fishermen, socially endangered customers of energy. In one word, the government helps all layers of society, and so does entrepreneurs. Helping entrepreneurs is helping to preserve jobs so it would be worth mentioning what all the government has done to preserve jobs especially during the Covida-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98110	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98111	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Juričev Martinchev. In my introduction, I forgot to mention exactly what you asked me to do, so I thank you for that. So today on 17 March after 2 years of crowns, an epidemic of crowns in Croatia, Croatia records 117,000 unemployed. On the same day two years ago, so when the epidemic started, when maybe one to two of the possibly three infected in Croatia were 124,000 unemployed, 124,000 unemployed. So we had 7,000 on today before the epidemic more than today. This information may not be as important if the number of employees was not measured at the same time. So, at the same time through this pandemic, we were dealing with the crisis in a way that we increased the number of employees and reduced the number of unemployed. That's what you said. The impact of Covid's 13 billion-dollar support [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Help. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98112	What's the matter? ... Someone's talking. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98113	My colleague Brumnic is a little nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98114	No, I don't. Dear Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bacic, here's a little bit to get out of this VAT framework, the government doesn't stop with the measures. Here today, a regulation on the reduction of so-called 50 limes per litre of fuel related to this ecological fee for mixing biofuels with these simple fuels has been passed on to the government. It means that there's still monitoring going on with, with the energy and that it's working in that sense. I'd still like one of your comments. The prime minister recently appeared to me in France last week at a very important meeting where, where EU members have negotiated a joint act on, in the area of gas trade. Obviously, we're going to have to perform together so that we're still more likely to isolate this all that's going on because there's a feeling that everyone's getting along without a bigger European. The umbrella I think is stronger [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The effects will not be seen. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98116	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98117	Thank you, colleague Kleman. That is right, if the price of crude oil continues to decline on Tuesday, thanks to the fact and today's government decision to cut prices for half a liter of fuel due to the removal of the need to mix with biofuels will result in a significant decrease in oil and oil derivatives prices. I agree with what I have heard, details I do not know, but since the EU is one of the largest if not the world's largest gas and energy consumers and otherwise in the world a joint appearance of EU Member States such as access to procurement, if you remember vaccines against Covid when the quality price is secured and the fastest possible delivery of vaccines to all EU Member States through a joint performance in gas orders, I think that the price of gas could be further lower in Europe and Croatia. And in that sense, only then does it come to full expressions of construction [[Intruder: Thank you.]] LNG. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98118	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98119	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, today when we talk about amendments and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act, we should know and say that it is expected and a major price blow is expected from April 1st. Since we are expected to collect gas and oil, and given the situation in Ukraine, it is assumed that there will be an increase in oil prices and thus all other products. In Croatia, energy participates with about 15% in the consumption basket. Food in the consumer basket is with 28%. And as Minister Maric said, it is not to be expected that the price hike of this law will be fully neutralized, but at least we can ease it. He also said that tax policy cannot solve all problems, that lowering VAT does not necessarily mean that it will lead to the intended purpose, but the government will monitor the effects and the compensation will judge the effects of lower taxes. It should also not be forgotten that there are restrictions allowed by EU directives. Therefore, reduced VAT rates on fuel are not allowed as well as the exemption of excise duties from VAT calculations. In the debate we could hear and surely we are pleased that the revenues from that same VAT are 2 and a half months this year a billion kuna compared to the same period last year and amounting to $9.1 billion. This speaks of solid economic activity, and it certainly made it possible for the government to propose a new package of measures worth 4.8 billion kuna, which essentially contributes to the preservation of jobs and purchasing power and covers all layers of society. This will also mitigate the rise in food prices and other supplies, and what is extremely important to mitigate the rise in gas and electricity prices. This can also bring a stronger economic recovery that would not be possible if we did not go with the proposals of these laws and this, this package of measures, and of course to the competitiveness of businesses, agriculture and fisheries. Earlier, counterpart Bačić had already discussed social benefits for endangered customers, monthly social benefits, and one-time benefits for pensioners and support for farmers and fishermen. It should be commended for those trade chains that have already gone with price reductions because there is always an additional fear as we have already known to happen many times to bring about changes in this assembly to the law that lowers tax rates, and the end-user does not feel it or just spills it into the customer margin. So here is the commendation of those who have already proposed and cheaped some products even by 16%, which is expected to change exactly by changing this value added tax. Namely, the consequence of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which is the world's largest producer and exporter of edible oil and sunflowers, leads to the threat of the global market in Europe of this product although Croatia has sufficient production of domestic oil, but we know that there is not enough raw materials. Today it was on several occasions of speech and on tourist activity, about the tourist sector and should say booking has really slowed down, but cancellation is almost gone, Croatia is still good for us. By the time the conflict broke out, that booking was better than it was in 2019. However, when we talk about value added tax, that tax has remained only higher on serving drinks and that alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks means not on preparing and serving food in all the facilities as well as on accommodation, and we know that guests come and when they book above all see what a package of accommodation and half-board accommodation is most often or accommodation with breakfast. If we look at it, we're for example. in 2021 when we achieved as much as 90% more income in the first 9 months than in 2020 when we had an extremely good number of arrivals and 77% more than in 2020, that was the year in which we had over 85% of overnight stays, then I think that the amount paid to serve drinks and alcohol and paid by end-users is not so important to our tourism sector. Here, the time has run out, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98120	Thank you for your time. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have also mentioned positive examples of price reductions related to VAT reductions because when taxes are reduced, excise duties of any form of fiscal taxation among citizens are always doubtful whether the price reduction will be felt for the final consumer, whether it will actually happen or the traders will use such a reduction to increase their profits. There were examples that the reduction in VAT rates did not affect price reductions, and in inflation conditions we can certainly hope that it will not lead to further price increases or that prices will remain the same despite the VAT reduction. Therefore, all citizens and all of us are interested in whether the state has mechanisms that can move ahead of such changes, and we hope that the government and the ministry will monitor changes particularly related to the goods of wide-ranging consumption that are most subject to such activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98122	Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoya. Here's your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98123	Thank you very much, thank you very much, colleague Pocrnic Radošević, so we all expect every time I say we lower the VAT percentage we expect lower prices. Surely there's a state inspectorate who can control it. Here we are recently, I would say very well and quality it into the law, and here we discussed the issue of the introduction and use of the euro. In fact, that is where we specified and what are the penalties if this is not possible, if the prescribed rate is not used, if one and the other prices are not pointed out. I also expect the State Inspectorate, and of course I appeal to citizens if they notice that there is no price reduction to warn. There are also consumer protection organisations which also work quality in their field of such observations and pass on to competent services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98124	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98125	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned that almost 30% of the shopping cart of the citizen or family is related to food products. Since this law now holds 5% VAT on almost all food products that were previously 13%, and it is particularly stressed that this applies to fresh fruit, vegetables, meat, etc., do you think this will encourage both domestic producers and consumers to use exactly domestic products more?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98126	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98127	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. So since we often point out that the best thing on the Croatian table would be to have products, that we can also talk about better quality products and more accessible, I expect this VAT reduction to encourage traders, above all, to really and lessen the price of the product, and then our citizens not only look at what they value better every time, but also to watch what is more quality and that is certainly a domestic product.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98128	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts Juričev Martinchev, today's debate on VAT reduction is largely related to the debate and how to help socially the most vulnerable citizens and, above all, to Croatian pensioners. Just today, as we discuss this, she started paying off a national pension of €820, and it practically coincides with these decisions that were made through the economic package itself, where for 720,000 pensioners, about 4,000 would be maximum, whose pension is below 4000, the maximum aid of up to 1200 kuna. What I am interested in, when we talk about VAT, and you have now answered Mrs. Peric's question as to whether traders will reduce VAT, i.e. include in the reduction of the end product price, that's what the fundamental question is, is there any knowledge about it or do you not have?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98130	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98131	Well, it seems to me, thank you, colleague Bačić, I am convinced that now better and more than ever because if there are trade chains that have already reduced prices, regardless of whether they have not yet reached a lower VAT rate, then I believe that all other trade chains will also respond positively because, of course, if their products are more expensive, then their turnover will be lower, and then we know what leads to smaller revenues, less paid employees, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98132	Thank you. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98133	Dear fellow Martinchev, I don't know if you listened to yourself when you discussed it, you said that we have enough oil production but we don't have enough raw materials, which means we don't have enough oil production, we don't have any raw materials, because if there's no raw materials from imports, then we won't even produce it. Unfortunately, we don't have enough toilet paper production, let alone oil or something, and we could have enough production, most important for the nutrition of the Croatian population, but the bad policies through the uplifting beats for whatever brought us here today, and that's why we didn't, we weren't aware of it, but there were two crises, one after the other that made us aware, and now everyone's finally starting to talk about agriculture. I'm glad everyone's talking about agriculture, but I'm sorry we don't have enough food or energy because we sold everything alive and gave it to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98134	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98135	Comrade Lenart, thank you for your rep. So we don't have the raw materials and we can produce and produce enough if we get the raw materials. Surely, that's why I pointed out, we have production, so we have capacity, but we don't have raw materials. As for food and we see that now and by reducing the VAT rate, we want to make that food more available at a lower price than it has ever been, motivate and manufacturers, we have meaning in this package a special package of measures for farmers, that's what we can do at this point. Every day, every amendments to the law we try to meet farmers with different support, there are different European funds and so on, but this is really slow and we can't be too satisfied with what we've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98136	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98137	Dear colleagues... You can calculate how much money we could help our citizens, if there were no Aladrovic employment, and of that we have more employment today than counterpart Bačić says, that there are no Coric wind power plants where we financed HBOR or our money from a 4 billion-dollar contractor and that there is no stopping EU projects, or today we heard from our colleagues Grumoje, I think that some day it seems to me that yesterday or the day before I heard from one of my colleagues who is dealing with the EU funds, that a practically complete competition has been stopped with an explanation that the money will not be spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must admit it is completely unclear to me in which way this government does not function and I say, I would ask you to calculate how much money could be more... To the citizens that there isn't this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98138	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98139	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98140	I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Who? Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Brumnic, was injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure. Namely, I won't say he's lying, but I'll say he's telling the half-truth when he's talking about a fee that the windman Krsh-Paden needs to pay the Republic of Croatia. He linked the fee to Minister Coric, which is true, because it was brought at a time when he was a minister but was determined by the SDP government. Therefore, when you speak Col. Brumnic, then finally tell us who determined the fee extended by his colleague, Coric. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98142	Mr. Bacic, time. You know it's a replica, I mean, it goes by default going a reminder. And the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98143	Thank you very much, Brumnic, first of all, I would say that you are extremely brave. You mention names, you didn't see anything except heard the papers. I can only tell you that there are charges filed in your ranks, that they are filling up newspaper articles, but I am not going to pronounce them. What anyone has done, whether Minister Aladrovic, Coric or so, for the time being are still our ministers, and if something really had been done like that, they probably wouldn't have been in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98144	Mr. Brumnic, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can, no more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98145	He's been injured. In 238, where my colleague Martinchev is really insulting, I don't know what to say, any MP sitting in this House. It's amazing to me that after I'm not going in to see if the HDZ thinks Aladrović's employment model is correct, you probably think because otherwise you wouldn't have put it as a minister, but I just asked, How much money... [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98146	Mr. Brumnic, time. You have one warning, this one's second, and time's going, we better stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98147	I'm sorry. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Radin: Because it was a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98148	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, yes. Warning, warning. Mr. Grmoya will now have his five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98149	So, this Aladrović new deal is the most responsible for the growth of employees spoken of by counterpart Bačić, not only in public works and infrastructure as it was in the United States, but in the Institute where he did it. As for this, says a colleague, you can't present such things without some solid evidence based on what you've been reading. So it wasn't read in the papers, but the DORH started an investigation and I agree here and I should talk about it, so how much it cost us these catastrophic mistakes of those who managed Croatia, which they handed over to our energy company, which they handed over to the INA, which was pushed by the wind power plants, I agree, is not the responsibility of HDZ and Coric, I remember that, whether it was New Year's Eve or it was the Old Year's Eve, and as they got these incentives for wind power plants and what was happening there, but that modus operandi, so if SDP started somewhere, continued HDZ, only that HDZ did it much better, we saw it in the case of Minister Coric. So, it was the Most was part of the ruling majority, Krš Fallen couldn't get the green light, not because I hitched it to myself or because Bozo Petrov hitched it, but because it didn't meet the conditions and then it means after we leave the government it pushed and now Croatian citizens, but people have to know it because people think it's some abstract crime where someone took some kind of money but it's about us paying, all of you dear citizens when you pay that bill for electricity, you pay the fee and renewable energy sources and every time you pay the electricity, it means something goes, the rabbit goes to HDZ or a lot more, that one, maybe a dozen, maybe twenty, depends on what the bill. So every time you pay for electricity, it goes to these HDZ guys, so you have to know that. And so says a colleague, as far as VAT is concerned, you've been talking about how many billion. Well, that's what I'm talking about all the time. You're the one who grew the price of the 9th month. picked up on VAT due to price hikes huge amounts and filled the state register and now you're giving as something. You lower the VAT, so how much did you take? How much... during this period prices increase from 9 months. and before, how much did you take on VAT to Croatian citizens? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're something of a miserable 20 to 40 lira of excise duty, you've lowerd the VAT and you've given it as something. Take your hands out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, finally move into a stronger tax discharge, examine all these wind power plants and these alleged renewable energy sources because it is not just your responsibility, I agree, but where is your responsibility and stop running the state in this way. And there's one more thing to say here from this place, we don't have price growth just because of what's going on in Ukraine, we have because of crazy measures, lockdown, support, money printing, so we have a price rise and someone needs to answer it, and don't do it anymore, and this is the last time, I'm not wearing a mask in this assembly anymore, I'm not going to be a hypocrite, so you're all hanging out, you're all expensive, you're not wearing masks, you're breaking measures and here yesterday an important debate on agriculture, you can't sit 5 MPs of the Most, an empty assembly. I will no longer agree to this, not because you terrorise me, you terrorize Croatian citizens. Tonight your Deathic at HRT will, by order in the Open, re-analyze epidemics, epidemiological measures and all these 20 days it wasn't a topic, they say war is, no longer an epidemic topic. When it suits you, then the theme is an epidemic, when it doesn't suit you, it's not. No, I'm saying now it's the subject of an epidemic we're abolishing measures, we're abolishing measures it's enough that you won't make fools of us anymore and someone's going to be responsible for this price hike and for what's happening to Croatian households and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98150	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Troscott, I have to tell you this, I'm implementing the presidency decisions where the opposition and the position and the opposition are represented, so to speak, I'm not going to go into the metrics of things at all, nor do I have the right to semi-limize with you, as you have no right to polarize with me, and I'm going to warn you every time you don't have a mask because you said you're going to do it on purpose both the first and second times and the third time you won't have the right to speak, until we change the presidency's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98151	Here, change it, you initiate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98152	Let's not pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98153	Because I see you're not wearing anything either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98154	I'm not allowed to polemize with you, but... Neither are you with me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98155	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Often in rhetoric today, the government has given citizens support, and let us remember that these measures have come too late, that we warned this already last year that there will be a huge price increase, that at the beginning of the year we have calculated exactly how much energy there will be, that they are based on energy prices, and also on these uncontrolled prices that traders and entrepreneurs raise without control mechanisms, so that it all comes down to our citizens. Let us not forget, therefore, those great responsibilities of the state which will again be paid by our citizens and entrepreneurs. And it's not any money that the state or Mr. Plenkovic gave to our citizens and entrepreneurs, but it's just a return to a part of the money that was taken from both entrepreneurs and our citizens, taken from them through parafiscal charges, at the highest VAT rate, through corruption costing 60 billion kuna a year. It's the money that's just missing right now in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98156	Thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98157	I absolutely agree with my colleague Troscott and nothing is given here but the part that's taken and taken back is coming back, but not just through legal taxes. Each state has taxes and in this way the state as a community works, but we here have taxes to pay for crime, we have criminal taxes such as this fee for renewable energy sources where because of the corruption of Coric and the team every Croatian citizen pays an electricity bill to those interest circles and that corrupt octopus. And that's what we're gonna end up with, so I hope so, and here I am thanking all the clubs that supported our recall request, so the Social Democrats Club, which are there and the other clubs, and hopefully we'll remove these three corrupt ministers, and then we'll send this Plenkovic corrupt structure to the opposition when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98158	Time, thank you, thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Now it's Mrs Sabina's voter vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I want to say is that we welcome the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has respected, and a good part of our club's proposal and our party's proposal on the necessity of reducing VAT on certain products and, finally, after half a year, after we warn about it, was a little more active in controlling fuel prices. But I'll come back to that later. I would now look back at the very beginning at the announcement or proposal of this law that VAT on menstrual hygiene needs is reduced from 25% to 13%. I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not actually understand the point of this tax and one bill that came from counterpart Mrak Taritash, which was supported by a good part of the position as to why a reduction to the lowest tax rate that is possible at the moment, which is 5% because we cannot lift the tax or VAT on hygiene supplies because it does not allow us the EU. But why did we ask for a cut to the lowest possible rate, not 13%, but 5%? Because this tax is actually discriminatory, it is discriminatory and it directly discriminates 52% of our fellow citizens, a large part of the population because that tax must only be paid by women. Just because women and their biological predispositions are such that they menstruate and it's a fact and it's a fact. And on the basis of that tax, the state only raises 130 million kuna women annually, and that is a discriminatory tax. And this tax system had him treating this woman's need for increased cost of living as a luxury until yesterday because he taxed it with 25%. And now you're saying, well, we're not going to tax it just as full of luxury, we're going to tax it as half-luxury because how else do you call it the fact that you put it in the tax system at hotel level. And to tax less movie tickets, concert tickets and some things that aren't the basic needs of life. I mean, that's okay if we're going to have a reduced VAT on those specific items, but it's illogical again that you don't understand the point of why the proposal was like this. And I am saddened by the fact that if you did not go with a full reduction in the lowest VAT rate just because the proposal came from the opposition and you punish all women in Croatia for it. You're not good at the job. So some countries like Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya, Trinidad Tobago which we perceive in one way are less democratic, less developed than Croatia, even patriarchal countries have long had no tax on these needs. Kenya abolished that pink tex in 2004, we're in 2022. And we need to explain to the government why this little concession is not enough, but it's not really the point of the story. If you have already realized that it is abnormal to tax it at the highest VAT rate then you should have shown that you understand the point of why it is required to reduce it to a minimum possible level. As far as these prices and interventions are concerned in the price of fuel, I will repeat some of the words he already said in the morning before our club colleague Hajdash Doncic. You again show your interventions that you are not able to respond to the crisis situations in a spotless and adequate manner, unfortunately that is the case. Our fuel price formula leads to the fact that the fuel prices at the pumps go up hard even though the peak of the world's oil price is far behind us and it actually happens when decisions are made not in accordance with the circumstances but are made too late. And what our proposal is for you to change the regulation, to seriously consider introducing floating or floating excise duties or to reduce the burden happens when raw materials prices grow and vice versa, but also to think about reducing VAT as you have done with both electricity and gas and this part of the excise duty because it is not by chance that Hungary, that Slovenia, that they pay less fuel price because their share of the government budget is certainly not nearly 50% as it is in Croatia and that area for intervention, there is still the necessary intervention of the state and I am sorry that you did not go to the end but you are giving the crumbs again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98160	Thank you. You have one replica. Not two. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98161	When we talk about reducing the tax on women's hygiene supplies recently while we have here through the opposition proposal to discuss the same law or but greater VAT reduction we could hear different arguments from HDZ about how this reduction is unnecessary, and it may also be counterproductive of women not menstruating from when Andrej Plenkovic is headed by the government rather than before that there are hygienic cartridges for men, and that women may also be looking for encases with lavender and rose and who knows how long their needs would grow. So what is crucial in all these arguments that have taken place in some dimensions and strange spheres is that they have explicitly confirmed themselves and that they have explicitly opposed the reduction of VAT on women's menstrual needs. And how do you explain to them now and what you think will be their reaction when the government is not their government and even the male minister did not respect those arguments at the time, yet he now decided to go to this reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98162	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98163	Yes, it's the irony of fate, and it's what's an eclectic example of how it shows that it doesn't matter what is said and what is proposed but it matters who proposes and who speaks. And what any of the most perfect legal proposals to come from the opposition he was pre-convicted to fail, however it is not revenge to the opposition, it is revenge to all those who through these legal proposals want to help. I remember that debate, I'm sorry you weren't here, he was a colleague of the Grmoys speaking on behalf of the club, but I remember that absurd debate. The only one who actually showed understanding, but not in accepting the bill was not this one, but the other secretary of state who said that he had to refuse it, but that he was afraid to come home to what his wife and daughter would say to it. But I'm not surprised because when Andrej Plenkovic says the army goes, the army goes, the army stops, the army stops. However, what is absurd is that it will happen very quickly that the EU or the directive will order Croatia not to have to cut to 5% but to recommend that the tax actually He takes it off completely, and then they'll be the first to advocate it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98164	Thank you very much. ... Lenart, do you have a sore throat? Does your throat hurt? Not my colleague Lenart. ... [[Attack Voter: It hurts me.]] No, everybody's got, everybody's got only I don't have, and those who talk don't have because they've got in front of the plexiglas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if you, too, fellow Lenart friendly, if you have the same opinion as your colleague Grumo, say it, and then we'll do the same. But I thought you forgot that's why I asked. Here you go, colleague Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98165	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Voice. The aspect of your discussion and the fight over menstrual poverty, and I can say that I am sorry that no complete proposal has been adopted by the opposition, although I am at least a little glad that the ruling majority has evolved in its views. But what I'm interested in is your attitude towards our proposal to index pensions where, despite the ruling majority having a partnership in HSU, one half solution was also given, and one essential and real debate on the indexation of pensions and the rise of our pensioners' standards has simply escaped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98166	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98167	Thank you. Thank you as mayor and many other mayors and mayors and mayors and schools who have planted their backs, have understood the importance of this topic that I have talked about and now in the debate and that they started with that other part of the menstrual poverty, which is that they provide free hygiene supplies in public institutions, and I especially mean educational institutions or schools when the state is not intending to do so and is not able to do so. Every day, however, they grow more and more glad. However, as regards the indexation of pensions, so I think that the government will come up with this, simply to realize that one-time aid to pensioners will not solve the problem and the fact that this inflation is, in fact, the most affected by the socially vulnerable parts of the population, which are sufficiently retired and that the existing indexation is actually not real or relative to the real increase in the prices of basic foods that they have the largest part of the consumer basket simply unsustainable. And hopefully we'll get to that a little slower and Too late, but he'll be here. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98168	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98169	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's something I want to say about this law on amendments to the VAT Act as a final proposal. I think today's debate was good, that both the ruling and the opposition agreed that this is a good law, to contribute to the citizens. That the opposition understood that the opposition also had a responsibility and that, by adopting such a law and this proposal, they too bear some responsibility for what will happen to us in the future. If there were more and we had one community that really wasn't burdened with some kind of bad or nervous or frustration, surely that our laws and probably what we do in the assembly might look better. And all right, I think we see today's praise for every measure, for every percentage and what's like a fundamental disadvantage that's too late, we can accept as one moment when you don't have what, so let's make it late. But I think we have clearly announced for a long time that from 1.4. we will bring up to 1.4. Many of the measures that will go towards protecting the standard of citizens. Standard to protect... We said we'd manage to amortize absolutely everything and possible purchases in a way that everything would be the same to us regardless of what was going on on the market, like the global energy market, with agricultural products, with all possible raw materials, so we'd have the same thing all the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We certainly didn't expect that, and that's not how we set ourselves up. But after the first proposal that we went with 12 billion to save jobs to 120,000 businesses and crafts for 700,000 jobs in 2 years, we made it clear that we were going towards one group to preserve this moment that is important to us in development, that we have an economy that survives in difficult conditions and that this moment now shows that we can help now twice now with 5 billion kuna to all. And according to citizens, households, entrepreneurs, fishermen, farmers, etc. because we feel our responsibility to do something to reduce this blow that will happen because it simply suggests certain activities on the global market. And I think that the government is actually going towards the pensioners with one-off support and all the households and the welfare. I think clearly citing the sources from which to cover it, clearly citing height. And today when we talk about this law, we're talking about amending the VAT Act on 2.1 billion direct aid. If we're gonna get all the merchants to do it, whether this is going to be true, what's going to be the most debate today, that these products aren't more expensive. I think there will be a lot of problems, but the state has done its part. I experience it that way, and it can't have everything on it. I've been saying for a long time that there's both responsibility and local self-government. They live in Croatian citizens as well as in this country as a whole. And we see that there is absolutely no financial capacity for any shifts. I care about the city of Zagreb and 19 billion, which is one large percentage of the state compared to these 150 countries. about 15-16% of the state budget, the state budget. And with you not being able to single out 1% means 150 million kunas and tell entrepreneurs who have a problem with the gas and accounts you send them, we don't care, we'll send you an account, you pay it, and we'll tell the guilty government, they haven't done everything or it's some former government we've replaced, we're nowhere to go. I don't accept that because I think they do have options, but they don't want to. We'll send you a bill, you can pay it in 5-6 wars, but you'll pay for it. And that's it. We're in the loop, just pay us, we'll raise your utility prices. Here, the waste disposal of 1.7, can, while the state is working to reduce and let's say the condition of some kind of possibility of a higher cost happening they tell us all to charge, everything and we don't want anything to help, let the state worry. We know everything because we're here opposition, but where we rule there we don't know anything. We don't have a program of measures worth 100 million kunas in one city that has 800,000 inhabitants, and I don't know how many tens of thousands of entrepreneurs. We don't know anything about you. Let the state worry. And we will be power. I don't agree with that. I think there's capacity in every major city. that I can do it. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98170	Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98171	Dear fellow Minister Boric, perhaps we should keep an eye on rhetoric when we speak to citizens that the state or particularly a certain authority has given them something or given them something or cared for them. The state as far as I know it, and maybe you're denying me because you're every day denying us with what HDZ does, belongs to or should belong to citizens, not to someone's private interests. So the state didn't give them anything that didn't belong to them before. When we talk about reducing the PVD and everything else with us, food should cost far less. I agree with you on the criticism of the City of Zagreb's policies especially towards the entrepreneurs to whom the greatest burden has fallen during this crisis and the city has not taken care to ease their situation, so I believe that you will, on the basis of this constructive spirit, and here we ask you, may propose amendments to the Excise Taxation Act to eliminate excise duties on oil derivatives or to compensate for gas to all socially sensitive institutions as some other European countries have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98172	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98173	Thank you, dear colleague Selak. I think the state said through a package of measures did what it could at this point and in time announced, in time decisions will be made and will be made in time. And don't doubt we won't do it. It shows you the experience of the first 12 billion kuna package. When some here who are now telling us that we should have done something else as Mr. Hajdash Doncic predicted that we would have 400,000 unemployed. Yeah. Find those articles, it wasn't that long ago. 400,000 unemployed, we have 117 after the price of that story, and the pandemic hasn't finished yet. So there are people who know something and can do whatever disputes, no matter what attempt to bring them down as well as this minister, they recently wanted to replace him, but he shows that he knows and can run public finances and that he's very much finding a place to help the citizens. That's the difference. The city of Zagreb has its power, they found no measure to help those who needed it, they did not. They just closed their eyes and said we weren't interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98174	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98175	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, since the debate has been going on for a very long time, I have closed my eyes and only listened to one man speak before you, and I thought about what kind of a just person it is between us that there is something entirely for us, and there is absolutely nothing touching him, and for everyone in this country it is the government of the Republic of Croatia, and even such measures, and then I opened my eyes and saw a man who is also in a party who has a series of affairs of grizzly affair, from the affair of godfathers and realized that in fact this whole debate that we are having today is aimed at reducing the Croatian government's contribution to what it does not only in these last 2 years. but here you are during your entire term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98176	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98177	Thank you very much. Kolega Ivanovic, and I could say here as he said at his first moment or first minute, says citizens when you pay those 50 or 60 lips for renewable energy sources kuna you go to HDZ, Kuna goes to the Bridge, two kunas go to We Can! or in the SDP, I mean what is the level of debate, which they suggest and then say get your hands out of some pockets of citizens etc. And they keep using the same story. Then they have employment models, they say it's from that minister model, so I remember Mr. Grumoje's model where you, for a man who had to go to the board of Croatian Waters who was elected in the public tender, are changing the basic act, the statutes to adapt the qualifications he has, and he didn't have them to be able to comply with such provisions, hire him, you know what the punishment was, Mr. Petrov, please report to Ms. Peter. Dalia, a few thousand kunas, you've been a little in conflict of interest and goodbye, all the other very different actions. And not to mention everyone else, the ones who hired on the road, the ones who invited their members, etc. ate the donkey wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98178	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Boric. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudić already had a replica And the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Injury, breach of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98179	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. A colleague, Boric, indeed, when he comes to work through a relationship in this current situation where he hangs over you over the minister of employment, and possibly soon to the former minister, given what Prime Minister Plenkovic was saying about how often we will meet at the ministers' impeachments in this assembly, I think it would be better if you just skip it than trying to convince the Croatian public that we are all in politics the same to justify our own failure and hands in pockets that you do not insist on taking out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98180	Thank you, thank you, a reminder by the difolt because it was a replica. Mr. Kleman has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, here today we have heard on several occasions concern among parliamentary representatives whether this VAT reduction will be spilled to prices in, therefore, shops? Today I listened to the radio coming to the assembly, a large daily shopping chain has already reduced prices, or announcing that it will respect absolutely these decisions that we will make in the assembly, that it is now, from its margins daily in some way, detachs 300 or 300 thousand kunas, so at, at the level, at the level of the day. So here I think it's a good message to the citizens of Croatia that still, with normal monitoring, we're going to get what we'd like, and that's to see the reflection of these measures that we're going to bring to prices, at prices in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98182	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98183	Thank you very much. My colleague Kliman, I say, we have formed power and we have responsibility and sometimes I am glad when we listen to colleagues from the opposition and they have certain solutions, but they are not responsible. So I said that today it is good that they are for this law too because they acknowledge that it is good and that they have a certain level of thinking that is similar to ours and that we can all do something together. I believe that if we all agree on that, those merchants will do the same. Is it going to be exactly the way we want it if something fell by 12 percentage points when we're talking about the VAT rate, is that exactly how much this is going to cost me don't know a kilo of something or some product I can't tell you right now if it's going to happen? The state gave us the opportunity and said it cost us 2.1 billion kuna, if we can save that money and leave it in the pockets of citizens, I would like it all to be that way because it probably will happen, but we put everything on our backs and say everything you have to, and we who are in the City of Zagreb don't have to do anything because those people who are also going to the store and those people who are also paying gas we don't have to let the government solve anything, and we are good government, and we don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98184	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98185	Thank you very much, Vice President. By 2000, we face crises both global and our catastrophes, but I can say that in some ways we are successfully handling and passing both laws and provisions to make it easier for our citizens to overcome all these crises. Here we would just ask you here we heard that our HEP what he did and what he contributed to this crisis, here today we had on the Committee on Economy one of this very thematic session and we got very good materials that we really should share to all MPs to see this in some way, and I have singled out here one part that electricity for households has increased 9.6% instead of 23 and that HEP participates in almost 460 million kuna according to the government's decision, so I ask you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98186	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98187	Thank you very much, colleague. I think I'm saying we found sources first so we can carry out everything we want as measures. We didn't go here. Now we're going to pass some law and some sublaws, so we're going to see how we're going to collect it. We know exactly the sources for which or from which part something will be co-financed and the state has said we can do it. The Environmental Protection Fund carries a billion and 200 million kunas. It's not small funds or insignificant to that same fund, but we said given what's going to happen to us, we can solve it that way, and so is HEP with that kind of money, even though some would say, and we can say more, and we can do more because HEP has profits, but HEP also has a commitment, HEP has obligations and bonds that come on the charge, so it's still done what can be done at the moment. Which will show time, what happens in the tourist season, I don't know and can't spell as some know and say we're in the 10th month. said what would happen. They didn't say anything, it doesn't say anything, look, clean jokes for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98188	Thank you. Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98189	Thank you, dear colleague Boric. I am pleased that you have also stated that, in fact, the high level of consent is linked to the package of government measures and, in particular, the VAT law and the reduction of VAT rates. What we heard as the most common contrast argument is that it is too late, but it is true that it is timely, that it is adequate and that it is precisely affected. Also, what I would like to emphasise is that the price of gas in the Republic of Croatia is determined by 1.4 and that we have a guaranteed price up to 1.4. It's 17. 3., measures were communicated by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic exactly a month ago, many decisions were made at the last cabinet session concerning the operationalisation of all these government measures, and today it is 17.3. and today we are talking about VAT law and 1.4. It's 15 days from now, the question is, is it too late for my colleague, Boric? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98190	Answer. Thank you, thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98191	Thank you very much. It's not too late, and I think we did it responsibly in the 10th month. when we announced that the heating season began and that by 1.4. and the price of electricity and gas would remain at the levels that were until then for the household. The mistakes of those who run this city cost this story of entrepreneurs who tried to get on their backs in the media but I say, there are double criteria and standards and I think that all of this we're going to do, we've already shown in the experience, so that we can implement the measures, we're going to do this. We know exactly who needs to do what and who needs to report to achieve certain rights. And those who say a little bit, criticise us, that we don't know something, I'm fascinated by the fact that the City of Zagreb is eight months old. After the election, there's not a single head, there's not a single minister. None. And they teach us what the government needs to do. Now that's the problem that we're going to point out that citizens know that because they don't know that. No headmaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98192	Time. Mr. Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98193	Thank you very much. I must say that even with some parts of your discussions, especially when you spoke about the constructive and common position and opposition in difficult situations, I agree. It does not occur to me to be the attorney of the City Administration of Zagreb, but I must say that I would prefer that as HDZ you had such an interest in the City of Zagreb when Bandić held the majority of you and when there was also a great deal that could be done better and more to solve traffic, problems in the City of Zagreb and communal problems in the City of Zagreb, those we know about pipes and plumbing, so they don't crack because someone is 3 months old. The mayor and a dozen other topics. Now I'm going to tell you as mayor of a city that doesn't have a cut, which has the lowest price of water in the Republic of Croatia with purification, one of the lowest waste prices and doesn't receive from the Fund for equalisation or kuna. Please answer when will the government go out with a package of reforms where we will have the right to decentralisation and not to be in Greece's ranks and to share profit tax and VAT where they come from, means in municipalities, cities, counties with the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98194	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98195	Thank you very much, colleague Jaksic. It was one of the government's basic promises,... Governments through that famous 21st plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Total decentralisation and territorial reconstruction, if you remember you who may be a little longer in politics. Then you finally said there was no plan or that there was 21 or that they said anything and... What's my pleasure, colleague Jaksic? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you recognize is that the SDP, along with these others in Zagreb, is responsible, without you, you have no authority, no decisions are made, and if it suits you that the mayor does not have any Minister i.e. No headmaster, they're all deputies or assistants, eight months. After the election, the question arises when are you going to implement a 500 million kuna project or something important, where are all those projects from the previous campaign that concerned some railways, some traffic solutions, where are these things? It's a question and you'll be asked, not them because the SDP has given its hand, the most important hand put up its president of the assembly and made joint decisions, and it's certainly someone's going to ask you and the year will pass, it's been both these months and nobody cares who was in power before but show what you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98196	Time, time. Mrs Ahmetovic is on her way now. And I'm glad there are cities without cuts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98197	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's to meeting that condition for me to mention VAT, so it doesn't matter what I'm talking about further, so VAT, everything goes under that topic, and no one's gonna give me a warning. Unfortunately, today we are talking about amendments to the VAT Act, but we have heard little about these amendments and amendments to the law, we have heard more about the economic package of measures, about what the government has done, about whether it is too late, not too late, etc., etc. Everything's urgent. I think we'll all agree on that, so it can't stand the claim that the measures don't come too late because they don't come too late, this law wouldn't have been passed by an emergency procedure and of course I'm going to ease this claim, this criticism, it's never too late if it goes to the benefit of the citizens, it's a good thing that even now that it couldn't have been before, although I assure you, it could have been sooner and yet, I welcome the fact that the proposal came to debate anyway. Too bad it only comes now because inflationary pressure is not from today nor will it wait for April 1st to prepare for all of us to start this pressure and that its effects are partly amortised by these measures. This pressure was visible back in September last year, so seven months ago. when we warned him. On September 15th, I asked the current one Tomislav Coric what the government intended to do about inflation and then laughed, although it was laughing. But you know who's last laughin' the cutest laugh. The saddest thing is, it's not funny at all. We from the SDP Club have been offering our proposals for months from reducing excise duties and VAT on fuel, on gas, on broad-consumption foods that are most representative in consumer baskets, those with the lowest income to pensioners, social group transfers, poor citizens, the release of parafiscal duties and compensations mainly of which we do not see any letters, the harmonisation of pensions with inflation, but also the implementation of reforms that would long-term set the rules so that not the victims of price hikes must always be the weakest ones. I am pleased that the government has respected most of the SDP proposals, and here we are also discussing a reduction in VAT rates on certain products. However, this law does not cover the reduction of VAT on fuel or the exemption of excise duties from the fuel base. We can agree that reducing the VAT on fuel without control or limiting the margins of traders would have no effect, but here and the margin has been fixed because it can be done whenever it wants to. And when we asked for it then we went to that short-term fuel price freeze, so the most vulgar interventionist measure besides all the far better, quality measures. So you can. Let us not forget that the State Inspectorate could begin to control both large and energy voters. He doesn't just have to hit the kid. What's the State Inspectorate doing? Well, I guess that's one lever of power. Reduced excise duty by 20 lips for gasoline and 40 lips for diesel is not enough, will not have a significant enough impact on fuel prices. So, there's still room. We've been searching and asking for excise duties to be reduced by 50 lips per diesel and kuna and ten limes per gasoline, and that can be avoided by neither the road nor the railway sector. And these are the amounts of reductions that it accepts, i.e. that are acceptable, which bring that level of excise duty to an acceptable minimum. So why shouldn't it be minimal? And why wouldn't it be minimal? Why exactly wouldn't it be minimal? By combining the measures that you have partly taken, which concerns the reduction of excise duties and the fixation of margins and those that we further propose, thus reducing the VAT rate on fuel and excluding excise duties from the base for calculating VAT savings to citizens would be even higher. This saved money would be spent again by citizens on the items they really need and would again fill the budget register through payment of VAT on these supplies. Since you planned a significant growth in VAT revenues in the budget for 2022, you will return these revenues to the more realistic frameworks. At that time, I warned you about the 2022 draft budget that the revenues were high, that health expenditures were mostly high or too reduced unreal, and even then you did not believe in these sizes, I believe you do not believe now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98198	Thank you for your time. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ has her first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98199	Dear fellow Members Ahmetovic, when we object that it is too late, then we are burdened with why we are discussing a matter of time and nobody here discusses early or late in time categories but prices were different not only a month or two ago, but a week or two ago. And these VAT corrections are now affecting the significantly different prices that were previously made when the inflation speech started, when the traders had already raised them even knowing that they would probably go about what they were talking about for at least a month reduction in VAT on certain products. So two weeks ago, they get up and we can't do anything with this. So, first of all, I would completely reject that it is unnecessary to say whether it is too late because it is a very important issue especially given the timely reaction we must have in the future because we are going from crisis to crisis. And I would remind you of the European Council meeting when the crisis measures were being discussed in October that our Prime Minister Plenkovic said he was not interested. He's only interested in sustainable energy sources. Now, that was the government's position on how to combat this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98200	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98201	Thank you, colleague Selak Rasdic. I totally agree with you, so of course in these inflation pressures every day means a lot. We have been discussing consumer prices and energy since September 2021, so it has been six and a half months. And every month we witness an additional rise in prices, or additional inflationary pressure. When we ask about what the government intends to do about it, they laugh at us because they think it's funny. Is it funny that Croatia's electricity industry only because of 15 dream differences achieves a price for gas purchase in the difference of 9 euros per megawatt hour. So, first of all, he announces the tender and gets a price of 30 euros per megawatt hour, cancels it, and in 15 days repeats the competition and accepts a price of 39 euros per megawatt hour. In the quantities in which HEP supplies that gas, these are enormous amounts of loss of public funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98202	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98203	Dear MPs, I don't know if you've forgotten or haven't been able to mention some things that are equally important, which is why we're in trouble with the gas. Let me remind you, by 2016 we had over 50% share of domestic gas in total consumption, and then we fell below 35%, and then again in 2017 we rose to 54% of domestic gas in total consumption to be below 20% of gas in total consumption today in 2022. And now how can we correct the price when we have to buy gas on the market? Instead of having our own gas, if we had 50% of our own gas as we had it in 2017 or 54% we'd only have 50% of the gas for which we have to urinate differently. So there's the problem. Problems occurred long ago, 2016, 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98204	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98205	Thank you, fellow Pavić. The problem with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that it does not think long-term. So, we are talking about short-term measures today. Ten years ago, our gas production was about 70% of our needs. We've imported 30%. Today that ratio is just the other way around. What is being placed in the public is here today, Minister Coric says that the INA has launched a production of 150 000 m3 of gas per day, which, with the capacity purchased at the LNG terminal, will allow us not to worry at all about our gas needs. The capacity on the terminal that we have is 20% of our needs, with this production of 2.2% of our needs, which is 22.2% of our Croatian needs, and now who makes a fool in the Republic of Croatia? I think it's clear to everyone but it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98206	Thank you. Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98207	My colleague Ahmetovic, since my colleague, Boric, unfortunately, did not answer the second part of my question because he spent a lot of time on We can! and the city administration of Zagreb, I imagine, washes 10 years of coalition in Zagreb Bandic and HDZ and 4 years of holding the ruling majority by Bandic and his tokenries in the Assembly, I have a question for you. As for detrailisation, public acts say that Croatia is in that degree but couples with Greece, the second after Greece. So we still have a high degree of centralised, the state collects all taxes and then, based on its assessment of political preferences and everything else, divides them. That's why we have debates that we have to be happy because the state is giving up taxes for citizens and we forget that these taxes are paid by citizens. When do you think the state of consciousness and courage will come to us with politics, that VAT, profit tax, and some other taxes remain where these citizens are made?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98208	Thank you very much. Please answer this question to Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98209	Thank you very much. Coliga Jakšić, VAT is unfortunately the tax most fought by the weak and today we are talking about VAT and changing it and said colleague Grozdana Peric that this is a tax that is very often changed, it seems to me every year because of what is changing is the place to change. What we pick most and repeat, we pick him up at the weakest. It's where the weakest go because they pay the same tax as the richest. Unfortunately, the VAT also finance health and pensions and social benefits. Unfortunately, neither health care nor social or retirement is formed. So neither did the announced form of health care that we were supposed to save 6 billion dollars to. Kuna a year, we don't see an R until today. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98210	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98211	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, I believe that this debate of yours was a burdened title from the newspapers I will say too mild, but LNG will not be built. And I'm sure she gave you a light motive so that you can discuss it this way and say this in HEP is bad, this is bad, etc., and what's wrong with you given the moment we're living? Did we then, 2, 3 years ago, when this was happening, know that this was going to happen to us? We could have thought strategically. I then picked up all kinds of names, worked against my own consciousness, that I didn't have it, that I was a traitor to my end, etc., but that time came and it was worth something. And there are other political responsibilities. Now you say nothing, like, nothing, I stood up for something else, but I wanted it, but it helps us. And do you think you'll be able to function normally with that because you don't have a solution, you don't have a solution, even though this country had a say a few years ago when you said it was wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98212	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98213	Dear fellow Boric, do you know how much LNG terminal capacity is? You have no idea. Do you know how many Croatian gas needs are? You have no idea. Do you know how much HEP and INA have purchased capacity? You have no idea. So, I find your courage to discuss a subject that you simply have no idea about. So, what you should have no idea and since you're coming from this area, is what your fellow representatives of the Primorje-Gorskina Assembly confirmed when they said that the land terminal is a legitimate project and that they advocated a land terminal that would provide Croatia with sufficient gas capacity in this situation. He can't do that today. You know why? Because among other things, you bought a smaller boat than you should have bought to get someone in your pocket and to buy that boat. And you did it. Wait, we'll discuss it together and we'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98214	Thank you, thank you very much. There's a lot of information to buy a bigger ship. Thank you. Mr. Anton Kleman has his own hearing now. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a fellow secretary of state. Here, on April 1st, the VAT reduction law that we are all obviously waiting for. As we hear from colleagues from the opposition, for a long time and that he is late, we think he is on time and contains everything that needs to be contained to help our citizens and the economy. What has been most discussed today is the price of VAT on energy, in any case on gas coming down to 5% since April 1st, so natural gas drops to 5% of its rate, and I think it will really ease it, as we have heard in great part and ours, alleviates the impact on our citizens and on our economy. And it goes from 25 to 13%, down goes the very large number of our living foods that we need daily so that in the entire basket of what we're going to feel from April 1st is the amount of 2 billion and 100 million kuna, which we think is a really big, big amount and I think it's going to be a good buffer in these inflationary times that are ahead of us. Why did we have to intervene like that? So, we have what's said to be a perfect storm, so we've just come out of some larger covid or, say, almost a post-covid era that certainly didn't have a good impact on economic progress, and here we are witnessing this, this truly sad war that's happening in Ukraine, and one of the consequences besides the very suffering of a whole country and the death of a large number of people and great human sufferings is what bothers us most in Europe, and this is the gas shortage and those energies that Russia normally delivers to the European continent. The whole thing, this whole storm reflects on inflation, and that's just what we have to react to, and I think the government reacted well, and it hit exactly what it needs, and that's so energyy as gas to 5% and these other living foods from 25 to 13 and 13 to 5%. Anyway, I think it's an objection to the fact that illegal intervention doesn't stand, I think it's timely, and I think it's going to have good effects. We must calculate that we have a consolidated budget, as due to the conditions for entry into the Eurozone, but also on the preparedness of the budget for possible intervention in the case of the type of subsidy we had recently, so we close our eyes before that, but we are in a situation that is possible. We don't know how long it will take and what the nature of this war will be in, in Russia or Ukraine, how long it will last, whether it will cause even greater inflationary shocks, we don't know that. We need to have our budget in place so we can have any interventions. If we bring it down to the levels now that we won't have any reserves, that we won't have consolidated this budget, how will we react if necessary, I'm asking you. Definitely these reactions we've had around the covid crisis, good government reactions, job preservation, everything we've taken during that time, during that monster and those diseases we've had so far, we've managed to realize them all, all the subsidies precisely because of what we've had, what we've had a very good budget and that's the stock that we have to keep for now to see if we still need to intervene down to make it even better, even better pillow to have that, to amortize this all that we have, which is waiting for us. I think this is wise not to go to the end but to go gradually and to be ready to expect what, which this, which we, which should not at all expect is not this war. I think the government's intervention is timely, it's good and it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98216	Thank you very much. You have replicas. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98217	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we agree that every tax discharge means more than welcome and especially necessary for our citizens. You said well, and we all understand that most of the consumer basket is actually a diet, it makes a diet and, in fact, energy. However, do you think that it might have been possible to go a little further to reduce certain taxes, so it is good that it has fallen to 5% for fresh, fresh meat, fresh fish, eggs etc., but there is still 25% on meat processing, dried meat products, frozen meat, etc. If there was some little more detailed cost-benefit analysis, it might still be that the reduction of this tax will not be damaged by the state budget because it will be significantly higher... the price we witnessed in pork, etc. The basis for the calculation to be much higher, and thus the total amount of VAT, so on the one hand the price increases and demand decreases, you go across to the other country to buy the Christmas spread, and here we have less consumption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98218	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98219	Yes, thank you very much, so I believe that colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have made absolutely good analyses about it, and I have no doubt about it. If we're going to look at each other, there's always something more down there, it's certainly like that, and our fellow citizens in over at the specter room won't certainly stop this one. You know for a fact that every country in the EU and our neighbours have a different tax system and different needs, and I would say something from their production stock and development in production processes that gives them safe opportunity to make some, some products lower, lower on VAT. In this case, I think we've made an optimum and these solutions are quite, quite good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98220	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98221	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Kliman, you have been in the system for a long time, and even as Minister of Tourism, you have spoken several times about how important the VAT has been and it has happened, it has reduced to both accommodation and food service, so it has also been possible to pay the VAT by, by charged realisations, etc., so all of these are some previous effects which are now here at the end and in this reflect, so the offer will also be increased, and we will probably also be competitive with the price due to the input parameters that are now much lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98222	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98223	Well, it's also the intensity of this law to be competitive not only to make it easier for citizens to overcome this inflation shock, but also to be more competitive in the markets. So, if I understand correctly, you're apostrophe of my short role as Minister of Tourism. Yes, it is very important, it is very important that we have these prices under control and that they are not too high because it affects competition definitely. And we need to see what happens to tourism at all. If this war continues to rage in Ukraine psychologically will be very demanding, so get tourists not only in Croatia but not in any tourist destination. And we know for ourselves that in this past year when we had a very good tourist season, the tourist season and the arrival of tourists, among other things, from Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary therefore contributed to a good season and a good growth of GDP, leaving the crisis. If this continues there, the question is what will happen, because the issue of a vacation decision is the last question to be taken, or the answer to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98224	The last replica of Mrs. Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98225	Thank you. I am interested in the honourable representative after you have had ping-pong here your representatives in unargumented spit by the Zagreb city government, were you able to take a look at, or was it the task of someone else, tomorrow's report, according to which the city of Zagreb has 30 times more subsidies than all the other local self-government units combined. I would also like you to give me an example of a unit of local self-government under HDZ authority that has now introduced migration measures, and what are these measures in what quantities? And I'm still wondering if you're aware that after ten years of ruling Zagreb and soup with my buddy Bandic, you brought him over the edge of your duties, that you're also responsible for the provision, so you as a ruling not yourself, for a provision according to which the state can borrow as much as it wants, and units of local self-government up to 20% of the income. And that you've tied your hands to the units of local self-government, so it's really cynical and terribly hypocritical to call them out of this place and boast that you're helping citizens with their tax payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98226	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98227	So when you manage the state budget then you are responsible for it it is normal as your colleagues are responsible for the budget of the city of Zagreb, so each at their own level. And I don't think that's what I've said to me, so I'm not going anywhere within a millimeter. I think we manage well with this crisis. I don't have to go too far with the city budget of the City of Zagreb, so I can't answer those questions. I am occasionally in Zagreb, so what I can say is that I know that the government is certainly doing a good job and is good at managing with its budget. And I hope that in the future you too will agree to the story and that you too will do a good job for the citizens of the city of Zagreb. I think it's in everyone's interest. And in any case, he's missing as much as I read from the press. Therefore, these are good signs of how problems should be solved. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98228	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98229	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Every VAT reduction is welcome that at least a little wolf may feel that he paid something less than he should have. But it's known that the technique of the merchants makes everything even again as if nothing had happened. Each serious state also plans its development in the long term, its energy needs, its food needs and all the essential parameters that are important for the development of the state. However, we are aware that here things are being resolved by fire measures and this is when the fire has devastated quite a bit, and when fire measures have a very weak effect on what works. Among other things, here are most products to which VAT is downloaded to 5% which are imported products. What do we encourage again? We encourage imports again, we don't encourage domestic production. Some will say yes, but here we have taken off the taxes on seedlings, the seeds of fertilisers and pesticides. Well, dear friends, colleagues, the one who gets the 1.4 seeds and the fertilisers are too late in their production. All farmers have already obtained re-promatter for their crops. And on the other hand, the main part of the seeds of Pionir corn, Decal, the cage again imports. Farmers who are in the VAT system are still retailed as much as you lower VAT. At 100,000 kuna, whether he'll pay 113 or pay 105 and win back the VAT for a while, it's the same for them anyway. So, you didn't help them with something that we'd have better, better quality and more productive crops, that is. A family harvest of what I do. You didn't help them. There's a group of farmers who are up to 30 ha. They're mostly not in the VAT system. They need you to cancel the VAT, they need to be free of VAT but not only on seeds, to re-promaterials, but also on machines and equipment. Today, such an OPG must have a 150 horse tractor. A 2,000-year-old tractor, meaning 20 years old, is still in good condition for 25,000 euros. When you have to pay for it and buy it, you still have 5, 6000 euros in VAT-+ depending on where you bought it. These people can't stand it. This is the hidden aid used by the countries of the West, which, for example, return to their farmers in Austria the VAT they have paid and that is their support. You gave them direct support, but you forgave them for what they haven't given you yet. It's long-term planning, and these are now the most sensitive groups in this difficult situation, not God's drought, and if the drought is already being seen, it's going to be a bad breed, it's going to be a bad year. Trust me, these people are going to fail. Of course, they will suffer far greater than them, and they will likely have difficulty living. You just know when a man has 25, six, seven acres he gets about 70,000 kuna support. And when he's 300 ha, he gets close to a million. Well, then you can only live with support, but with 70,000 kuna support you can't live. I've already talked here a few times about how we should end it, and I tried with Minister Maric here in the hallway. But he doesn't want to listen to me, and he obviously doesn't want to understand what I'm saying. I also tried with the Minister of Agriculture. She listened to me and she understands what I'm talking about. I hope someone will take seriously that this is not a loss for the state tax but rather a profit for the state through long-term planning, through a long-term period of survival of these agricultural economies. And in the end, you will see that in an even bigger crisis it will be an economy that will feed Croatia and that is very quickly turned from production to production because there is a family that is complex and which is important for its survival and it invests all its time not only in business, but all 24 hours in production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98230	We have two replicas. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98231	Your Honor, I would like to remind you that the members of our club here at the assembly spoke of the coming inflation and the crisis ahead of us last year before the budget was adopted. This can be very well determined in the videos. And when someone says now that these measures aren't too far-fetched, that's really funny. If this had been taken into account before the budget was adopted, if some things had not been put into the budget as some kind of investment, as some of the costs now put into the budget would be much easier for us today to reduce VAT on certain products. Today I'm afraid we don't have much space, because if we're going to reduce VAT to a large number of products we're going to have a problem filling the VAT which is going to cause what? Taking credit. And then we'll take that model, yeah, we'll take a loan with grace for five years, so let's get those expenses back to some other government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98232	You've noticed this well. As far as inflation is concerned, it is particularly pronounced in agricultural production. So I'll tell you on my example. The artificial fertiliser I paid last year for 45,000 kunas with VAT, this year I'll pay it over 160,000 kuna means for the same crop, maybe for 10% less fertilization because we have to try to save somewhere, and only on fertilisers we can. This tractor I mentioned at 25,000 plus VAT no matter where you buy it he cost 17, 18000 euros three years ago. Spare parts, iron, carrots, tools all went drastically up, and agriculture is not just seeds, fertilisers, soil, water, but all of this I've listed and it's very, very hard to endure today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98233	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98234	Thank you. My colleague, I think we agree on a basic assessment, which is that in any case, this one is welcome to reduce VAT only a certain fire measure that will not achieve more significant effects on the standard of citizens. And besides, all these measures come with great delay. The problem of the Croatian state is that there is no systematic strategic planning in certain manufacturing sectors. You mentioned a lot of good proposals for agriculture, so while we're already on the subject of agriculture, here's if you can comment on the situation in which Petrochem is located regarding all these market disturbances in the supply of the necessary raw materials for the further production of their products and whether you have any useful measures, amendments as you had in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98235	Thanks for asking. About Petrochemy, since I'm a Kutinjčan and emotionally bound maltene to Petrochemy because I was born in '68. when she was made. I spend several times a day with Petrochemy, Petrochemy is in desperate condition as physically. You can see a second-stage henna drive that's been paved with metal beams to keep it from coming down and not working for years. The production of urea, meaning the main sources of nitrogen in agriculture, and we know that nitrogen is a plant engine, without nitrogen there is no intensive production standing for some time and has been stopped abruptly. These products are also produced in Europe. And I'm not worried about this year, because this year the fertiliser for production still has, but I'm worried about the year behind because then I think that the nitrogen will not be, and then the production will sink very, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98236	The following is an individual debate between the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98237	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. As regards the measure itself, the reduction of VAT, so very clearly and loudly here, so that the Most Party that advocates tax reduction under any circumstances, under any excuse for any reason and whenever possible and whenever tax cuts occur, the Most will support it, however, this measure comes too late because we warned of this in the 9th month. Last year, when we saw which way inflation and price hikes were going. Furthermore, what is definitely the fact that this reduction in VAT and this support and these measures and this policy presented today is by no means a gift from the Government to citizens, entrepreneurs, craftsmen. It's not a gift. This is a false expression, so it is a return to a part of the money that was forced to be taken through almost the highest VAT rate in Europe, through a policy of closing the economy during the pandemic by criteria that have not been clear to anyone because certain chains worked, gyms did not work, through the largest number of perhaps parafiscal duties in the EU, through uncontrolled inflation and printing of money which has been multipled over the last 10 years than the GDP growth rate in Croatia. So, I repeat, the money printing rate in Croatia has been several times higher than the GDP growth rate in Croatia. And then this surplus money is poured into either real estate or financial instruments, something more in Croatia real estate, which automatically increases the price of real estate because as soon as the money is cheaper, the demand for this money that will then be bought will then buy real estate, the real estate will rise demand and the price of apartments will automatically rise. Furthermore, this money is also not donated for the reason that the state is very much costing corruption, we said already, 60 billion kuna, that's 15 Peles bridges. It's not a gift for people. It's not a gift. Imagine now that we don't have corruption and now we have 60 billion kuna, we wouldn't have to bring these immediate measures and put out the fires. We wouldn't have to stop certain jobs of building houses, building additional floors, we'd be safer, then we'd invest even more in energy, agriculture, IT, etc. And also, this is not given to our citizens for the reason that something has been touched already here, we have over-indebted so that something presented today as a VAT reduction rate will come out because Maric has already committed himself to the international financial market. It all costs money. So it's all costing. Now, what's missing in this whole story is something called long-term measures. And the long-term measure is something we touched on the Committee on Economy today, for example, what about geothermal sources? So Croatia literally swims at geothermal sources, but we don't use that. Concessions are obtained by the Turks, the Swiss and we could have both energy and heat and electricity from geothermal sources in a similar way as does Iceland or, say, one Hungary. What about digs like gas in the Zalata-Dravica zone? And today I asked that question, which is a huge gas site, although it is located between Hungary and Croatia, so in 2008, this gas field was found, in 2019 it was authorised to exploit, and we have not yet started exploiting that gas. We could really use that gas today in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98238	We have several replicas, the first one is Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98239	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Troscott, I think it's clear to all of us that the rise in prices on the market generally stems from the rise in energy prices caused by the crisis and the war in Ukraine. Today was really an interesting meeting of the Committee on Economy where it finally opened or at least tried to open this key issue, and this is the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the use of our national energy potential, as in exploitation, you said thermal sources, but there are also gas and oil, where concessions have been given to companies owned by other countries and the way we use these resources certainly damages our strategic national interests, so I ask you, do you have any concrete suggestions regarding these energys, therefore gas, oil and thermal resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98240	So before I start answering with a concrete strategy, you'd only answer the first part of the question. Inflation caused by Croatia is not only a product of the energy crisis but it is an increase, so the prices of traders and entrepreneurs who are now using this situation where there are no control mechanisms and this conversion, therefore from the kuna to the euro, so many use it to now raise the price that when they actually come to the euro level, they start to earn. About what you've set up, there are a few points that we could touch in that strategy. For example, buying concessions in Egypt and in North Africa. So we invest additionally in some exploitations but not enough for our needs. Vermilion, the Canadian company has discovered certain gas fields in the Slavonia area, we don't dig it up today. As for solar power plants, for example, HEP brakes some local self-governments in Krk and Cres to create certain energy symbiosis and to in such a way, it uses and exploits electricity. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98241	Katarina Peovic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98242	Thank you. I've heard of you many times and you repeat that the thesis that all taxes are high and I can agree with you that VAT is as a regressive tax, which is important to emphasize extremely high. But capital taxes are quite low and are quite good at hand to the owners, and it should be said that countries that have the lowest capital taxes are also the poorest countries in Europe. While those who are rich have very rich capital taxes. We shouldn't be so easy to repeat what you said at the beginning, MOST will always be for tax cuts. Any taxes, let's lower them. It's not that simple. Macedonia is one of the countries most, the ones positioned on the so-called doing business scale. In Macedonia, 50% of the population are unheated. There's one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe. Just a little warning here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98243	It's great that you asked me that question, because it's now a debate at the level of economic spectrum. I'll give you another country that came out of communism in 1991 and their prime minister only had then was in his hands he got the book... from Milton Friedman, that's Estonia, which then started reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what they managed to do about the tax system seems to me to be somehow the most just. It's a flat tex where everything is one rate equal. But what they have managed to do is reform absolutely everything, not just the tax system, but primarily digitise the economy, open an economy, remove bureaucratic certain processes, reduce the state within the process. So, that the state is not the one big machine that is financed from parafiscal and fiscal liabilities, and then it's being transferred in the way that the politician wants it to be. So there are other countries along with Macedonia that have reduced taxes and become the most successful countries even in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98244	Željko Pavić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98245	Your Honor, here I even think the government has now done what it really could have done best. But the point is, they got themselves into this situation, not just themselves, but all of us. They didn't react when they needed to. I've mentioned it before. The production of our own gas in Croatia has dropped from 2017 from 54% to less than 21. That's scary. Next, look at what's going on today with agricultural production? We've come into a situation where a farmer, a farmer, doesn't have the money to buy a resembling plant. If you remember about 20 days here, I've been asking the prime minister about the gas and the agriculture. There was no answer, like it didn't matter. Seven days ago, the prime minister was in Versailles, they had a topic of energy. It means it's important, but it wasn't so far-sighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98246	Dear counterpart Pavić has no long-sightedness today regardless of his visit to Versailles for reasons I do not see how we will get rid of Hungarianisation, i.e. Hungarian influence in our energy. When you look at the PLINACRO map in Croatia you see that the number of gas inputs, so from Hungary every time and every year, is increasing every year. And since the Hungarians know we don't have any strategy and they know they have certain Hungarians from, say, the governor of the National Bank who gets a certain gift from the Hungarian government. Why? Because of the promotion of perhaps financial interests of some financial institutions that are in Croatia. So they see that we're not developing a strategy and then of course, at these entrances it's the same key why energy is very expensive with us. So they use these entrances that we buy, so they raise prices, and then they get paid to our citizens' accounts. There's no strategy to deal with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98247	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98248	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Here at the end of the day and finally, the HDZ Club will support in any case a proposal to reduce the change and supplement of the VAT Act. It should be noted that, among other things, the Government's 2020-2020 programme set targets for the tax discharge of citizens and the economy, including the reduction of VAT rates on food, and for the taking of measures on economic recovery and the promotion of industrial development. Therefore, the programme itself stated this, and all of this was done and implemented, I said at the beginning of this day since 2016, i.e. in 2017, when the VAT rate began to occur and changed to different products. What is happening now, and this is precisely in line with this package of measures to mitigate the rise in energy prices of both households and businesses and farmers and fishermen, it is precisely this law that will create certain preconditions for this impact on citizens' standards to be as low as possible. In doing so, the Government does not say to any of us that something is given to anyone, nor does the Government, but has to make an assessment of the impact of the tax itself, i.e. amending the VAT law on the total revenue that it will make in or will not achieve in any future period. So, when this assessment is done, this estimate here is 2.1 billion kuna, which is being relieved of both citizenship and entrepreneurship, and in this way it has been affected by the reduction of rates, and as a general tax rate it remains 25, but a much wider spectrum is precisely for the application of reduced rates, which is 13 and 5%, primarily these 5% that relate to food, and that is precisely the most important part of the food that is really important and that participates in almost 30% of the basket of our needs, and that is here in a sentence and stated. In addition, what has already been said here also refers to the reduction of seedlings, seeds, pesticides, fertilisers, etc., as well as various sports and cultural events. It is also very important that the extension of the application of a reduced rate of 13% to natural gas is also related to heating wood, pellets, briquettes and cuttings, as well as menstrual supplies. What is important to say is that from the beginning of April until the end of March 2023. The gas VAT will be 5%, and then it is equal to 13%, such as electricity. So, with this reduction, there has been further redundancies between citizens and the economy, and in this way there is a great deal of concern about the standard of citizens, and especially what I said about the impact of increased and increased energy prices. When you look at both what we are today and on the Committee on Economy, when you look at energy prices, for example. Oil and gas in 2015, and in '16, respectively. They were almost like those now, somewhere around $18 was, was the price of a barrel of oil. So there have always been these very oscillations that are right here with these measures, and they're very relieving.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98249	Dalia Oreskovic has a final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98250	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. I can conclude that Croatia is a solidly potent country when we talk about its natural resources, unfortunately we have a problem in power that with these resources bad masters. As far as this law is concerned, it certainly needs to be supported, every tax reduction should be supported, and VAT reduction has been talked about for a very long time, but the problem is the context in which this package of measures is adopted, as a reaction to some acute situation and disturbances on the world market, and is not part of some systematic plan. From today's debate, it is clear that the impact of all these measures will be very superficial and will not reach a final goal. It's more or less a description of the problem that exists almost in every law that has been discussed in HS lately. Here we were yesterday talking about the Law on Co-operation in Agriculture, and it was also evident that long-term strategies had not been considered, that we had a situation once again that some things had not been implemented, even in the full of 30 years. And the whole country was actually brought into a state of extreme, extreme devastation. It will also be similar with results related to VAT reductions. I agree with MPs who have pointed out that fanning prices on the market is not only due to supply instability and rising energy prices but rather to some structural problems. But the fact is that these structural problems again arise from the way we manage our private resources, and in fact, we have handed over everything that was nationally important to other countries and foreign companies under suspicious circumstances. In other words, yes, to this law, but, but with all the strategic structural reforms we have been talking about since the beginning of the call for this, the 90th calls on HS, which is a territorial structure, which is a reform of the public administration, which is the establishment of a functional judiciary in order to ultimately bring our citizens from a lower VAT rate to some effect, it is really necessary to take account that if not self-sufficient then at least more self-sufficient and available in their resources, then that means that we are obliged and that we are to account for companies that will also enable the exploitation and processing of our raw materials here in the Republic in order to enable our economy not only security in the supply of the necessary energies but also guarantee them a lower and more acceptable, and thus economically better, better price. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98251	Following the debate, the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of the Honored Representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98252	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. In this final word we would just like to actually further affirm our position regarding this law, but in general all of the things that actually give context to this law which, in our opinion, are not actually good. So we said bridge is really a party that will always advocate tax cuts under any circumstances, under any excuse, whenever and for any reason. However, these measures today that we are looking at through this law really come too late, so the heating season is already ending, etc. And I think that, somehow, it's been kind of timing maybe this period right now, and actually what our citizens want to know is what's waiting for us in three months, in five months, what's what's waiting for us in a year, two, three days regardless of Ukraine now. So no matter what happens there, so we need to think about our strategic interests as a state. Why couldn't we just generate electricity ourselves and therefore heat up on geothermal sources, for what? For this reason, a HEP as a great mastodont does not allow the development of solar power plants in local self-governments in Krk and Cres that have an excellent model, an excellent model of energy symbiosis, for example between kindergartens and schools where solar panels would be used during the summer when schools closed use solar panels and electrical energy from schools for hotels and vice versa for schools across the hotel during the winter. Therefore, the development of these projects is prevented, because simply HEP wants to participate absolutely everywhere, and the local self-government is being stopped from developing its own sovereign and local energy strategy. What we also don't understand is why we haven't, for example, used our exhausted gas fields, so we've already used certain gas fields that we could have used and used for gas storage sites long ago, so we could fill them during the summer months and then sell them or spend them later during the winter months. So that's something we've lost to for sure 10 years. Which is why we can't use the gas we have, so no one can convince me that we can't use our own gas within our borders for the last 14 years, it's about the Zalata-Dravica gas site. The Canadian energy company Vermilion also found additional gas fields that had not been used, which could have been. So we also dried up all of our oil tanks we have in Angola, so there was no consideration of buying additional concessions in Egypt and in the Magreb countries that are rich in oil. And here's the strategic thinking, and I didn't get a response to that on the Committee on the Economy today. For example, why would we not use the strategic position of Croatia, so let's say, together with Italy, we created a strategy and, say, a southern, southern gas flow to Europe for the reason that the Black Sea is now closed and the Baltic Sea, and then Norway can no longer deliver gas to Europe, so why would Croatia and Italy not be the supply routes, for example, of LNG coming from Qatar, from Algeria, from the United States? Here it is, I think that Spain would be very interested in this strategy, and on the other hand we would become more competitive, therefore, in the northern part of Europe, so we did not do without doing this LNG terminal, and also something the Hungarians keep throwing that, on that, on that LNG terminal, and in what way we will really resist that, this Hungarian influence that they are using this situation, this energy insecureness, and on the basis of the fees they charge us, they are actually earning on our energy incompetence for the time being.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98253	Mirela Ahmetovic has a final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98254	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's all urgent that it starts late. That is why the emergency procedure goes to this law, the draft law amending and supplementing the VAT law. I remind you, inflation was 2.8% in July, August 3.1%, September 3.3%, October 3.8%, November 4.8%, December 5.5%, January '22. 5.7%, February 22nd. 6.3%, as long as this inflation needs to grow to make it clear to the rulings that there is a rise in consumer goods and energy prices and that it is necessary to react immediately. It was quite clear to us at the SDP Club in September 2021. that inflation or prices are growing and that an immediate response is needed and that is why we have also proposed our package of measures to mitigate the impact on citizens. The package of measures is partly and accepted by the ruling, however not entirely and not in due time, is not that we did not warn you. Why are we talking about the law on amendments to the VAT Act? VAT is the highest source of income, but it guesses the weakest, the lowest income, and the most unfair way of taxing. Without reforms, without long-term vision, without sovereign and independent policy, the protection of Croatian national interests has no choice but to apply to fill the budget via the back of citizens or through the collection of VAT. In this inflationary age, of course, VAT revenues are high, and they are high because they are high prices. And over the back of the citizens, through their torment that they pay from month to month more expensive, you heard in which percentage more expensive, the government of the Republic of Croatia is filling a budget that has been filling up since the beginning of its plan full of holes. Minister Maric, of course, rubed his hands and was satisfied with inflation growth because he knew that how much he would fill a budget that could not stand all those expenditures waiting for him, despite the fact that he also covered up those expenditures when he was actually very unrealistic about expenditures in healthcare less for about 6 billion kuna than it is normal. As for the cause of this inflation, of course, with the energy sector, all problems start, both in the economy and in the sphere of the household and citizenship. So when we talk about it, we need to talk about long-term, not short-term measures. When I say long-term, then I mean the reforms that need to be initiated. Coming out of the colonial position on energy. Stop stealing public money through major energy projects in a private arrangement. Investment of public money in civil energy, not in large subsidies. The suspension of the impose by the HRP as a compensation for renewable energy sources that are re-taken from the weakest, and then give to the largest of which services are then charged. Extending energy vouchers to energy poor citizens, not just those in the context of social care. Exclusion of excise duties from the base for the calculation of VAT on fuels because it is a tax de facto on taxes. Reduced excise duty by 50 lips per diesel and kuna and 10 lip for gasoline because it is the level of minimum excise duty we are obliged to have. I don't know why there's so much running away at this time of crisis from minimum excise duties that wouldn't endanger either the road or the rail sector. Taxing mining or raising mining rentals that are the lowest in the world, it seems to me that only a few countries in the world have higher mining rentals than us or lower mining rentals than we do. A ban on exporting Croatian oil for the needs of Hungarian refineries while killing Croatian refineries. So this is what Croatia needs, and above all Croatia needs compliance with the law of the Republic of Croatia, so it would not happen that the largest energy project today stands under the flag of the Marshall Islands, and I guess because of the tax evasion of its own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98255	Comrade Oreshkovic, please wear a mask. A final debate will follow on behalf of Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98256	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will try to respond in this final word in a way to some of the things that my HDZ colleagues have explained here what could have been, when it could have been and how timely it was. If something had been done in due time, it would have been done when the CNB first warned in its report last year what would be happening on the world market. And that's what we've talked about here so far at least twice about the CNB. It was clear that price increases would happen only that this government had calculated that in this price rise they would earn a little better from VAT. To be honest, she didn't expect what happened. And why didn't she expect what happened? Because she really didn't manage the things that need to be managed, which are resources. The point after this we have the point of statistics. This point serves to allow a person to make quality decisions or follow up on statistics. If you don't read the reports, if you don't follow the data then what I say you're making decisions based on a PR expert. The proposals that we have made as a club on the text of this law are all practically in Annex 3. The EU VAT Directive. There's not one that's not there. And you know why he's there? Because Europe is not stupid. Europe knows what it wants. And Europe, when it adopted the VAT Directive, clearly prescribed what parts of the system or products to be protected, preserved and enabled to be more competitive. My simple question to colleagues on the right. What is the problem with not wanting our economy to be competitive with Europe, that our farmers have the same conditions as European ones? It's the key to this country's success. Competitiveness. And that competitiveness is not achieved by deciding by tomorrow how to fix something that we should systematically manage for the last 10, 20 years. All these problems we face today are the problems that have arisen from the past 10, 20, 30 years of governance in this country. I said after one of my speeches, this country succeeded in the mandate of this government to carry out 70 billion euros in human potential. It has exported more human potential to the EU than we need any energy. Think about what you're doing wrong. I call upon you in some way, firstly to adopt this amendment because I think it corrects this law, but to strategically decide what these things are that we should defend in this country. The story of the liberal economy works for the big ones as it goes for them, when it doesn't go for them then they say it's no longer liberal it's strategic, so it makes it impossible for others. We had an example in this covid when literally some countries offered more to get more vaccines before. Let's not get into this situation and we have resources and I think we can. Croatia has in some ways wind and other renewable sources more than enough. Instead of forcing HEP to invest in renewable energy sources, we subsidized privates by giving money from HBOR. Well, I think it's the same as that Istrian Ipsylon funding, if there's not enough traffic, then we'll settle the tolls from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98257	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. As decided this morning, we are moving to a joint debate on points 2, 3, 4 of the agenda foreseen for today, these are: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021. i - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2022. The holder of the act shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 34th and 37th. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Secretary of State Stipe County.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98334	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Given that all three points are united I will start with the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. This report is the third report relating to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2018-20.g. Of the 274 planned statistical activities in 2020 The DZS planned to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities and other official statistics holders a total of 49 activities. Analyzing from the perspective of the entire statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of planned activities was 274 of which all activities were implemented. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan for the Republic of Croatia's 2021 statistical activities, this plan shall be adopted for each year to which the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia relates, so this plan shall be adopted for 2021. the first year of implementation of the statistical programme for the period from 2021-2027.g. The annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities of 160 on the basis of direct data collection of 87 statistical surveys based on administrative sources or on monitoring and monitoring methods and 46 development activities. All activities have also been carried out in accordance with the plan. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. These are planned to implement a total of 278 statistical activities of these 156 based on direct data collection, 88 based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 44 development activities. Of the 278 statistical activities mentioned above, DZS will carry out 240 activities in 2022 while other 48 activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. The financial framework for the implementation of the annual implementation plan in question is contained in the national budget or budgets of the holder of the statistics served and other sources of funds, in particular Eurostat's gifts and EU structural funds. The total amount of funding planned in the state budget for the implementation of the planned statistical activities is 129 million 911 thousand and 293 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98335	Here's a few replicas. First is Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98336	Yes, according to this introduction, statistics would say that statistics are an endlessly boring and unnecessary thing, but we know that they are not and should not be. I am interested in one question, so we have a joint discussion for three points, the second is the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. Today is 17.3.2022. So I'm asking you what's the point of today talking about the plan for the year that's been through? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98337	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, unfortunately you're right there doesn't make any sense, but the fact is that the programme on which that plan was adopted in HS a few weeks ago, and it wouldn't actually be right to have the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021. adopts before the programme on the basis of which it is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98338	Next replica Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98339	Yeah, I mean, actually, what bothers me is really some lateness with all these documents. So the proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan for 2021 was submitted on 9 September 2021, so there was enough time to discuss it at least in the current year. But we are already late for 2022 because already, it means the third month, it would be more logical that the debate is actually being held in 2021. Again, what my colleague Lalovac noticed at the last debate, we actually discussed a programme of statistical activities from 2021 to 2027 and a strategy of statistics, so he well noticed that it might be good for the applicants to have the opportunity to exhibit. Because we often ask questions that the secretary of state doesn't actually have answers, so that would make the director of the Department of Statistics more useful to my questions. And let's say one of the questions is again about what happened in the previous population register, why is it that the population register is not even included in this proposal for an annual implementation plan in the next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98340	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, we also discussed the same couple of weeks here about the establishment of a population register, so it is more than necessary for the Republic of Croatia, and we agreed in fact the last time we discussed it here. However, this is not exclusively an activity from the department of the State Statistics Office since only statistical registers whose data are used exclusively for statistical purposes and not publicly available registers can be established by the Institute. What is the fact is that the State Statistics Institute is supporting, in fact, already working with other state administration bodies, which was publicly published last year in the establishment of administrative registers where data from those registers would in fact be an input, a key input for statistical production, and the establishment of these statistical registers and for the implementation of research, of course, without additional burden on reporting units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98341	Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98342	Thank you. The esteemed state secretaries from the 2020 report show that 274 statistical activities were planned for all holders of official statistics, all successfully realised by which the State Statistics Office had 225 statistical activities. Also in 2020, preparatory activities were carried out around the list of farms, but also the list which was next year, as well as preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. The operator of the activity, the largest number of activities is the State Statistics Institute, which had 502 employees on 1 January 2021, and the indicative number of executives should be 669 which is about 25% lower. Whether the State Statistics Office as a national statistical authority may carry out all the planned activities foreseen by the programmes in the coming period, given the continued reduction in the number of employees over the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98343	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So as far as I'm aware, actually the State Statistics Office has repeatedly opened tenders for new additional employment. Unfortunately, there is the fact of this fluctuation of employees. What I also know is that it is working to enable, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the state administration, more attractive jobs for certain key positions in the State Statistics Office mainly in the part concerning the national accounts and obligations of the Republic of Croatia when joining the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98344	Dear Marina Opačak Bilić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98345	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in general, we can often read a lot of data from statistics, or better to say, we can read almost all the problems in the country. And it was woven from this data if we look back years, there is always a decrease in the population in the Republic of Croatia. My question to you is why do you think the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not in time reflect your data which here can be found on the website of the State Statistics Office. And here you were in the hall just before the end of the last debate, you heard how much we actually have exports of this human potential and how much it actually affects the very Republic of Croatia. And what do you think this is about why the government didn't appreciate your data in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98346	So data from the census isn't something that came suddenly and came in a year. Unfortunately, these trends have been noticeable for over a decade. I have to correct you. It's not my statistics. I am here a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The information published, which you are talking about, is published by the State Statistics Office and is taken into account by the Government in the implementation and planning of its economic policy measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98347	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98348	Dear Secretary of State, as we can see in today's debate, which will come from data coming from the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the 20th, and also from plans for the annual implementation plans in 2021 and 2022, we see that much of the statistical activities have been done and we can see that a lot of the results of the official statistics have been collected. What interests me is whether these results of official statistics were available to users in 2020 and 2021, and even now in 2022, or whether they are locked up and waiting for us to adopt these reports and implementation plans, and even the end-users who can benefit from them cannot. Are they actual here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98349	Yes, you're right, Your Honor. From all three actually reports we see a huge number of the statistical activities that are planned and implemented entirely. So in all three of these reports, the two that have already been carried out and in this fact that we expect to see an extremely large number of statistical activities and a great effort by the staff of the State Statistics Office. It should be pointed out here that it was not easy and easy for them to carry out all these statistical obligations at the beginning of the lockdown or the pandemic of the covid, including the earthquake that took place in Zagreb, and in particular the building of the State Statistics Institute. None of these information was late and they were all regularly published on the website of the State Statistics Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98350	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98351	Dear Secretary of State, we are probably here for the first time in the problem, not that it was late but it went ahead because you were working in advance or the state office was working ahead without a plan, so the plan is being brought in after something was delivered, so this is, I don't know if this should be commended as that service that either this institution and the institution that is very effective, so it does something in advance knowing what the plan will look like. So, we're a little confused because according to the Law on Official Statistics, The 34th said the annual implementation plan is adopted by the HS no later than 15 December of the current year for the following year. So I don't know how these activities are actually carried out at all, which is why either these implementation plans are just one formality, so they're repeated year by year, so people know what they're going to be, and then they're doing their job automatically. Well, that's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98352	I can't say that you're wrong and that the annual implementation plan wasn't adopted on time. Unfortunately, the fact is so, however, the annual implementation plan was adopted by the Croatian Statistical Council before that and adopted by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here today he adopts HS, or discusses the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98353	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98354	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. I feel a little sorry for you, but I feel like giving up on this replica. So you say the statistical advice fulao rock, government fulalala rock, but it doesn't matter now we're going to spin our thumbs, so we're going to discuss here and adopt something that's in a fat, fat delay. But here to continue in this tragic satirical actually tone, I'm going to continue to, I'm going to refer to the question asked by a colleague of the HDZ ranks, he asked how much data is processed by the Croatian Statistics Institute available to the users? So who is the user, is not the user who orders them, who should know what to do next with that data or just to explain, whether the government should know how to use statistics in planning legislative interventions and implementing certain policies among other things. Not in any of the acts I've read in these two years. I haven't seen the government ever refer to statistics that should be the basis of public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98355	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98356	Very briefly, believe governments, governments are the true basis for implementing its policies statistics from the State Statistics Institute, the government is not exclusively a user of these data but in fact all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, private, business sector, international institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98357	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98358	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, how the State Bureau of Statistics conducted the populationization of official statistics during 2020 and what is the plan for the '21st. and in '22.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98359	Well, the State Statistics Department has been doing a series of popularization activities like you say official statistics. This seemed to me recently corresponded to the distinguished representative Puljak also during the discussion of the strategy, so through his Facebook pages and through workshops continued and interactively co-operated, co-operated with those age groups and groups where the results of statistical activities should be popularized. In addition, it is important to note that soon, which is the 4th April of this year, the State Statistics Institute will finally publish data on new websites. That's what we talked about last time and that, and that data will also be tailored to the needs of a wider population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98360	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to debate was reported by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and on their behalf by a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98361	Co-workers of the applicant. My colleagues and colleagues, there's not much to say here. There's actually one question that needs to be asked here, and that question doesn't need to be asked by statistics, that question should be asked to the government. Here the motionary on behalf of the government said we're using statistics. So if you use statistical data then you see trends that happen in this society and then the debate that we had at previous points and for many others that talk about coughing reactions is actually the question of why it is. We're talking here today about something that went against the law in front of this assembly because it's too late. That means the president of the assembly was supposed to react to that. Today we're adopting a program that's in '21. What my colleagues said today is in '22, so it's all done, what I'd really like to see when we get a report like this. I'm absolutely sure more or less that management is doing the assignments, and I said that from this pay phone. The administration does what the policy says. The question is, what did politics ask? Why did politics do something? And how did politics end up taking advantage of it? Here, statistics have done a certain job, I am asked a question other than what 272 research into ceteras, ceteras, who and how has exploited these researches, which is based on these surveys and which policies have been applied or changed to the Republic of Croatia to the benefit of citizens from these statistics? Once here when I was talking about a disaster, then practically the Republic of Croatia is one of the oldest catastra users in Europe. But why the catastra? Because those who ruled part of these spaces except the Dubrovnik Republic who operated their own space wanted to know what they were managing to manage them in a quality way. Thus, from these statistics, one who manages society should read trends and what needs to be changed to make tomorrow better. We had a population list, we had health research. My question, what's on that basis? That is the key question the government needs to answer. We have a program, why we bring this program, what we want to do with it, what we want to read from society to make some moves afterwards. And that's what your colleague asked you. You've been watching statistical reports for years about what's going on in the Republic of Croatia and you're not responding. The point is that you're reacting based on what you or we are telling them, realistically at this point you are because they did something that didn't even come to us. But real politics has given us assignments. Politics asked for some kind of research to do what based on them? That's the key question. I would really like to, whether in the opening part of the report or in the final government when it adopts it says what it used, or why it is looking for some reports because practically this programme is a policy requirement according to, yes, and rather than who? We're adopting this program, we're adopting it for politics. No, you have the EU, contracts, etc., but all of this is made from a policy title. Politics wants to run society. So he wants to know what's going on in society. Politics has brought the program. He doesn't adopt this program parliament so that we can meet here today. He's adopting it because he wants to know what you're going to explore to make better decisions tomorrow based on these studies. It's the meaning of statistics, however, statistics of any data collection. You collect information that happens in society and according to what happens, we make a decision, or government, or, but politics makes a decision. And the government doesn't respond to it all the time. So let me say here, I think that every report should have for a result other than the activities carried out by the administration and what the results were, a man would say what ultimately to the citizens, but what we concluded from what was done. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98362	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98363	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good evening, thank you for the opening presentation and for the information we received from the ministry's representatives. I also congratulate you on the mild self - criticism that some things are late and that time was painful to present some data and some intentions a little earlier, but I also have to say that all this together for this country is not enough at the end of the day. We do not need data to the end how much these statistical analyses have been done that we are now saying hundreds of thousands are made and we have a bunch of these figures, it would mean a lot more to us that other than adapting to EU regulations when we talk about statistical management and that we can throw an eye on how things are going in the Republic of Croatia so that once on this topic that should be too important we can hear, read, learn what the government or governments are doing based on these data and these analyses that we can get from statistical reports. So, if there was a clear hodogram of how we perform according to which number and what we want to get out of which number at the end of the day, because when we add everything together and subtract it except for the correct work done at the end of the day, we have absolutely nothing left to catch up for and what we could say that we're going to do now to make some things better. One of the best examples in this is demographics, because it is being released in official data from the National Statistics Institute from year to year, which is happening to us with the number of inhabitants, but nothing has obviously moved in 10 years, but we have now made a list, determined which parts of Croatia are being evicted, and unfortunately the whole of Croatia, has established that this situation is somewhere, and now we are going to be making some changes and some new plans, regardless of what took 10 years. Also, when we talk about our economy, we are lacking cross-sectoral analyses to see how which sectors have been acting in what age and in what situation they have achieved, and finally that we can read from which economic branches we should throw more weight, and in which we obviously have a turnaround waiting for us. I mean, it's ugly to say, but it turns out that a number of cross-cutting analyses from which we could read in which direction our ship sailed were in the time of Yugoslavia and in the time of the planned economy, so it's definitely not a good way for our economy. Of course, when we talk about the economy there we can automatically switch to the agricultural segment because we are always full of mouths of self-sufficiency in Croatian agricultural production, and what we can see from statistical reports year by year is that absolutely, apart from finding numbers and from time to time, we haven't done anything to reverse the momentum both in the processing of agricultural areas and in the contribution to those agricultural areas, and also in doing something with our livestock fund and cultures that have recognized Croatia for decades at some point in time and based our intensive industrial development. Of course, we could now mention an educational segment where very often on the ground we get observations that what our education is talking about, especially when we talk about vocational education offers on the labour market is not something that satisfies this same labour market, not to say that in the mass of curricula and the programme we remain in the former Yugoslavia, and apparently last 32 years and many other topics that make up a whole segment and packages that one society and one state should be. So, okay, it's good that we get statistical indicators, it's good that we can read what's going on and at what stages, but what's definitely for the government's criticism is that we're not doing enough to process these data, how we're using these programs to put operational programs together and then to come to parliamentary representatives, and then, of course, to the entire interested Croatian public, we had numbers and so, we did that and we think about it or we made a step in the fields. That's why we're doing it in demographics, that's why we're doing it in the economy, that's why we're doing it in the structure of our education system, so ultimately we're doing it in environmental topics, mostly when we're talking about waste management where today this country doesn't know in which direction and how to go, so we're still dealing with the same stories of losses in the water and sewers network, and now I'm not listing all those topics that we all need together to be very important, not just as a statistical indicator, but as a warning, an indicator and after that plan for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98364	Next is the debate on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98365	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We remained impressed with hundreds of pages and thousands of reports on which our government worked hard and thought further to work during 2020. We can only imagine how many hundreds of millions of kunas are spent on IT resources to produce this amount of information, how many different Kojundzic and IT florists are engaged in these processes. For the mental health of taxpayers, it may be better that the real truth about the resources that stand in these reports is never found out. Our government doesn't understand much, but they did learn something, and it's bombing us with thousands of reports to execute information in that sea so they don't pay attention to the key figures that clearly speak in which direction the government leads this country. And continuously, according to research, 70% and more of the population of the Republic of Croatia thinks the government is leading the state in the wrong direction, which says that the government only partially succeeds in its intention by creating various reports to cloud the water on the real state and direction of the Republic of Croatia. We from the Homeland Movement of Persistent Arrival to the Assembly insist on communicating and warning about key figures that expose the incompetence and corruption of this government. So I'm going to look back now on a few facts that you don't have in your statistics. Let's say that out of 15 billion different subsidies that the government has divided over the year, almost half goes to agriculture, and we all know that agricultural production has dropped in the last 10 years about 20% and that we are increasingly dependent on imports. Can these very analysts possibly explain this phenomenon to us? Or we have to say that as far as the government's entire state-owned assets are concerned, through dividends from state-owned enterprises, rentals, concessions and other incomes, only about 2.3 to 2.4 billion kuna per year. The comparisons for the annual amount of penalties paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for traffic offences are equal to half of this amount. So our police put 50% of the total income of state assets worth at least 50 billion euros into the state budget. Do analysts have an explanation for these figures? We can talk a little bit more about concrete figures to make it easier for HDZ analysts to process relevant data. Let's say that support for the survival of Croats in BiH as a strategic priority a few weeks ago, the Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia issued a tender of total value from the miserable five million cooks. Croatian institutions and associations from BiH must collect a bunch of documentation in order to obtain a maximum of 10,000 euros. 10,000 euros can't buy 10 computers for one school. What about the eu resources that stand with these means of being real can't be done anything, nothing relevant. At the same time, however, the HDZ gives about 50 million kuna per year to its coalition partner in support of the SNV to the Serbian National Council. It should not be a statisticist or analyst, so it should be concluded that the HDZ is at this time more important to the stability of the government than the survival of not only Croats in BiH but also the long-term sustainability of the Republic of Croatia itself. There are still numbers we can talk about. So let's say the government has budgeted 900 million kuna to increase pensions, which is enough to increase slightly more than 2%. If official inflation is three times that, and unofficial and five, six times clear is how our pensioners are going to live even harder because we all know it's bigger five, six times, not three times how I mentioned what's official. We have, say, my favorite Minister Berosch, I haven't forgotten his criminal record. The deficit produced by the health system is increasing every year and headed by Minister Beroshe this year will reach a level so that any minor child in Croatia can be paid an allowance of 800 kuna. Every once a child in Croatia. It continues to invest in insane amounts, so only to improve the CESIH system will invest 105 million kuna. Congratulations, Minister Berosha! The government document mentions very much demographic reports. If they had the cheeks, at least they wouldn't have mentioned them, because over 10% of the population has been expelled from the country in the last ten years. What's even worse than that is that we have a negative trend and that major demographic impact is just following us, and we're not doing anything about it. While revenues from state assets have reached only one and a half percent of the EU's share of aid already reached 20% in the budget. Whether we can get good statisticians or analysts from HDZ or not, I don't know where we're going to explain how one day when that donation disappears, we're going to get out of this addiction. We've become drug addicts, we're so addicted to how they are about drugs, so we're about money from the EU. Well, that's not normal for my people, that's not normal. I could still talk for hours about statistics on government results over the past 20 years that have led Croatia to the very bottom of the EU. It is precisely because they are aware that their statistics are a great enemy deliberately working on 300 pages of specifications, some reports to cloud water and take attention off essential things. They're trying with statistical manipulations an extra crazy people who no longer understands anything like a joke whether you believe in me or your own eyes. I mean, don't be so angry, I really don't have anything personal against you, but you and I both know that this is a paper-shaped cabbage that can only serve us to light fire if we make barbecues. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98366	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98367	Okay. I don't think it's like that, let's just say, you don't really have to think I'm burning it like a razor. It seems to me that there are a lot of interesting things here, but what you're saying is more of a symptom or cause of a problem. But I think you'd probably agree with me, too. Although what we actually objected to about this report and the delay in the report, I think there are more criticisms to go to the government than to the institution itself, that is, the holders of statistical activities. There is also the State Statistics Institute, as well as other institutions that are actually in charge of producing this information and this important data. Not only would I not fire it, I use it as a razor, but it really feels that it's the most important tool that we have in economic development first and then in every other development. But the fact that our government doesn't produce any data, and here some have already been mentioned, such as those amongst the sectoral analyses that would be extremely useful to us, which we really had, so 30 years ago and we don't have them anymore, just show that our government doesn't need these analyses, and in other words there's no need for development. Because if she had a need for development, she'd be looking for those exact analyses. Without that analysis, we can't even talk about which direction we're going. How important statistics are, and this is really a data that means objective measurement of the environment in which we live. I don't think there's much to prove. But these cross-sectoral analyses of the impact of individual sectors, meaning domestic employment, on income, on the production of added value of such an analysis, are really crucial for us to develop certain natural sectors. Why did we destroy the shipbuilding? Well, among other things, because we didn't have a vision of development at all, nor the data that would really give us a picture of what these are by multiplying the effects of such a natural branch, how much these businesses can relate to such a large economic sector as shipbuilding. And then we always find ourselves in a situation why small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs, do not have the ability to develop and grow economically because they do not simply have that power that would be needed to really have this natural development. In addition, Germany is your best example. So in order to have small and medium, you have to have large business entities. Well, that's what you got me talking about. I didn't mean to talk about it. What was extremely important to me is just to point out that the State Statistics Institute, but also other statistical means the subjects in Croatia produce the data they are tasked with producing. And for the most part, we have linked to EUROSTAT and European statistics, and that is not good in my opinion. We should have our own statistics, we should produce our own statistical material that would allow us to move beyond those data that are important to the EU in the direction we care about, among other things, those cross-sectoral analyses. As important as statistics are, here we are today, I guess I don't know how many MPs have mentioned one piece of information, and that's the inflation data published yesterday by the State Statistics Office. So we're running all the data that comes from that workshop. I think an auditorium like this, I think it's embarrassing actually for a debate like this because we're here at the very mouth of information that gives us information about where we're going and where we should actually fix things, but that's how it was last time, so nothing new in that sense, right? But here's the information that we crossed an inflation of 6.3% of annual inflation, which is to exceed the inflation rate, for the first time, exceeding the inflation rate of the Eurozone, means 5.8% of it has an impact on, say, the law on the euro that we talked about the other day and on the possibility of autonomous monetary policies that many have discussed here, and now they're not. What was important to us and why we made the conclusion and the request to the government means that the quarterly calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia is also one of the important things and the debate that we are having here all the time. Why is it important, apart from the consumption survey, which the government has answered is that it is made that the State Statistics Institute makes it, we need to quarterlyly calculate the cost of life to make this data mean this minimal consumer basket, I don't like that term consumer basket because it's really about basic needs, we need to do minimum wage, we need to do pension indexing, so the minimum wage can't be 10,400 kunas calculated by the new union tomorrow, so it should be minimum wage to have a decent minimum wage, but we can know where we have a gap between a real dignified minimum wage and that minimum wage we now have and then make a plan to get a minimum wage adjusted with a decent salary, and not that we have what we have now, and even some on the left are falling to say so on what they say and the average pay is 60%. And the trade unions in Europe really advocate 60% of the average salary to be a minimum wage, but the problem is that our average salary is at the level of Slovenian minimum wage. So this data is actually completely irrelevant to us, or we can't stick to that data, we need that calculation that we asked for, and the government refused to do it urgently, but it promised us that this proposal would be included in the medium-term plans of the State Statistics Office, so now I'm appealing again what I did last time to include it. I have seen that the government has also proposed one amendment, no matter how late we are, but that is why I have proposed the amendment, and that amendment means that it is precisely to be included in the calculation amongst other things, and I hope that it will be included. What's also important to say is that there's one more thing we're going to ask for, but this time not from the National Statistics Institute, but from the CNB, which is also the holder of official statistics, that it means that it commits itself to doing research every year on the concentration of savings on individual accounts as they once did in 2014. for the IRS. Why? Because we all know what happens in the paper, the average Croat on the account has 130, 134,000 kuna and then, of course, everyone laughs, so whoever the average Croat is, we've never seen him. Well, that's the data that's really manipulating, and that's why we need the data that unfortunately the CNB made only in 2014, so it means the concentration of savings on individual accounts, and that data, of course, exists, and it can, can come to it, and why it's important, if we have that data, and we have the data from 2014. Only 1.7% keeps 40 percent of the savings in their hands. So the huge concentration of savings means the role in banks is in the hands of a small handful of people and then of course most people have so much savings that the inflation actually ate it, meaning from a few hundred kunas in the account and in that sense means that when we get that data, then it becomes clearer to us, and that Ginny's coefficient that says that we live in an extreme inequality society, so our giant coefficient is 0.89, zero is absolute equality, one is absolute inequality, our own index is 0.89, so we live in an absolute extreme inequality society. What she would end up saying would mean that the State Statistics Institute and other institutions would mean that the statistics are good certainly the State Statistics Institute must correct its problem of lack of expert staff, and it cannot do so, I will repeat it as last time in the debate, so that there are some of the lowest salaries in the state sector. So every honor means strategy, the development of statistics in Croatia where you said you would work on education, but wages are unfortunately what people keep in the institution and these are material living conditions. I'd also say it's very important that we have the lowest salary in the entire state administration, it's only the State Meteorological Institute. Another thing that would improve the status of the State Statistics Institute is that it becomes a scientific institution. It's very important for people to have this verification, that they're a scientific tool, that they produce scientific content, and that's what the State Statistics Institute is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98368	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Mate Čička.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98369	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 2020 It was the year in which the Republic of Croatia and the whole world faced an unprecedented pandemic, which unfortunately took only about 15,000 human lives to the Republic of Croatia. The statistical activities that we have had today are the result of the work and efforts of people in the system of statistics, primarily of the DZS as well as other institutions. By reviewing and collecting statistics, we can have insight into all the areas that are important for the development of Croatia, and we also have insight into the needs and standards of our citizens as well as the problems they face on a daily basis. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system is constantly developing and implementing new statistical activities. As the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian statistical system, the DZS shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia in the planning and implementation of the statistical activities programme and the annual implementation plans. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018-20.g. The following authorised bodies for the performance of official statistics, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Croatian Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have been established. The DZS as the main holder and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia regularly conducts the largest number of surveys. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss The implementation of the statistical plan under the mandate of the DZS was carried out in a timely and dedicated manner within the financial plan for 2020. Programmes of statistical services of activities and ongoing and capital projects with budgetary expenditure worked out in accordance with regulations, programming and economic classification and sources of funding. The report itself shows that DZS was in 2020. systematically working on improving how official statistics are promoted as well as relations with users. This is clearly evident on the basis of their activities on social networks on which a large number of new escorts have been recorded on all official channels. Several promotional campaigns have also been carried out, and the field of covid-19 within which relevant information on the impact of coronaryvirus on certain statistical areas has been introduced. The Institute is in 2020. received a large number of user requests. The report shows that they were most relevant to the area of population statistics and then to labour market statistics and to the area of trade in goods with abroad. All of the above activities of the DZS have contributed to the development of customer relations and to the promotion and modernisation of the ways in which users access data and rationalisation of costs. DZS in 2021. planning the overall implementation of 293 statistical activities from which the State Institute conducts 245 while the rest is carried out by other official statistics holders. From the Annual Plan of Statistical Activities for 2021. You can see how planned activities in demographic and social statistics, economic statistics, sectoral statistics, environmental statistics and statistics are for several areas. We can also see from the annual plan how DZS actively participates in the revision of the statistical classification of economic activities and how it coordinates different activities in the field of statistical confidentiality. In order to obtain data arising from the needs of the state administration body, the scientific community, the general public and other users from the Republic of Croatia in the programme are also listed by national... 2022. The programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2021-2027 is planned to implement 288 statistical activities. DZS in 2022. carry out 240 statistical activities while other activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. Based on this document, we can see how it is systematically working on developing new and improving existing communication channels and publishing media with a view to more effective promotion of the results of official statistics. I would also like to emphasise that the DZS is coordinating various activities in the field of statistical confidentiality and access to micro-data to improve the availability of micro-data and to increase the availability of databases for scientific purposes. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the Croatian statistical activities for 2020. and Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 and '22nd statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98370	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98371	Thank you. Dear, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just to remind myself of what we here today have united these three points under one point, that is, the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020, then the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, and today it seems to me to be 17 March 2022. So we're already working, we're analyzing the report on the implementation of the activity in 2020, so 2 years ago, and with these two plans we've already missed the legal deadlines. And now the question is, so the Croatian Parliament should adopt them by 15 December of next year at the latest. So on December 15, 2020, we were supposed to adopt this plan for '21 and by '21, December 15, '21. We needed this plan for '22. So we here in the assembly are going to bring in some illegal, I don't know we're going to vote on plans that actually missed legal deadlines here. Now the question is, does it make any sense to vote on them? Can we support some illegal activity? I know when I was, here's two terms I was in the city council, when we were coming up with some decisions that weren't in accordance with the laws we'd just come out of the session, they wouldn't want to take part in the session because we're discussing something that doesn't comply with the laws. But okay. I'm saying that's why I asked how some activities were led when the plan wasn't, then are these plans for all the years actually very similar and they always do one of these same activities and then actually the state's office knows what to do, so then these plans that they've come up with don't have to be brought in, they're busy, right? So it's kind of a weird whole situation. I'm going here now here just repeat a few things from the discussion about the strategy we had a few weeks ago. Why is statistics important? It should again be highlighted whether it should be the basis for some public policies. So here's the statistics in Croatia that in 2020, when we're talking about that year, as many as 10% died than the year before, 10.1%. Statistics show that observed indicators of poverty for Croatia from 2015 to '20. continuously record growth at year-on-year. According to Eurostat, Croatia has confirmed the position of the second poorest country in Europe, and only Bulgaria is worse than us. You can also see from the statistics that the standard in Croatia is 56% weaker than in Germany. In one week, statistics said that Croatia broke out first in the world after dying from Covid weekly compared to the number of inhabitants. So you can see all of this from statistics. That is right, statistics also say that after this census in Croatia lives exactly 396.360 inhabitants less than or 9.25% compared to 2011. So a lot of data can give us those statistics. They are in fact whether facts or information is obtained from a set of numerical data that are important for planning at all levels for both individual and business entities, and would say for the economic and social development of the country as a whole. Especially today, statistics are important in times like this: the global crisis is caused not only by the pandemic but by this war. So, every day we follow numbers, before in the pandemic the numbers of the dead, the infected, the deaths of millions of people, etc., today we are here and with the news daily we follow the news of this war. So, statistics are the one that needs to and can answer many questions like whether society is moving in the desired direction, whether unemployment is increased, decreased, whether CO2 emissions are higher than 10 years ago, what the success of the national economy is compared to other EU members, and on this basis, as I said, there should be some policies, some laws, some directions, the direction of action. However, we are witnessing that sometimes politics often choose from all this data whether it is what it is and what it wants to interpret whether it is in its own way and then create policies based only on selected data. Although independence whether statistics or official statistics are important for its quality, it is embedded in all these legal frameworks in order to prevent some political influences in some way, but here I say at the end politics is the power, an executive authority that defines some direction in this country and ultimately chooses again from that statistics what suits it. Two things I'm going to do the same thing here from, that are important, from this debate on strategy. Statistical literacy, therefore, is important to promote whether we are all together as citizens, and all other institutions of this country are statistically written whether it is especially in today's modern environment. And it is important to work on raising statistical literacy both through education and through school programmes, both in schools and in colleges, and through the activities of the State Statistics Institute, whether it should therefore be involved in some way and co-operated with educational institutions, and also with the Croatian Statistical Society and work on increasing and statistical literacy. I say here's a commendation, I see there's a lot of activity on social networks, and that's commendable, and something my colleague here and Peovic highlighted the human potential of the State Statistics Institute. So we've seen here in the present and very strategy that in some way we're thinking of raising the level of these people, human potentials in a way that promises them and provides them with some kind of better education. But nowadays it is really not enough to keep IT experts, I say especially with salaries like today, it is very difficult to actually get someone to work in the public administration, especially now and in the DZS given the level of pay because in the private sector of IT sector today you can achieve multiple more wages and that is something that people will have to do, so what the strategy says as one of the goals of raising employees' capacity I don't really think that this goal is going to result in people not running away from that institution anymore. Here's just so much I say problems with the date of all these plans and actually something that's not in line with that Official Statistics Act either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98372	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives of the Honored Representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98373	Thank you. Respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we're discussing a couple of things united. The first is the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. So, first of all, I will question the meaning and relevance of the discussion of the two-year-old report. We are regularly, unfortunately, discussing important documents with really years of delay, whether the reports of the Croatian Supervisory Board, the CNB, the police work reports or here is now the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of our country's statistical activities. We are aware that this is something that we, but also many other colleagues and colleagues often warn you so that from the parliamentary majority of the executive authorities, it enters into one ear quickly, but yet I invite you to stop and think about what it actually means to be a problem. In the last three years, we have experienced great earthquakes of the economic crisis, the global pandemic, and now and unfortunately the war that will have a long-term impact on our fellow citizens and citizens as well as on Croatia's future and that we have had the opportunity to discuss this document when it was time, so last year, preferably somewhere at its beginning, we might have the opportunity to direct future data collection in the direction that it really needs most, but like this with two years of delay and without public debate, it is really questionable how much it all makes sense together. However, well, the first document proposed by the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2021. So for the last year, we really don't see the point. The first document at least speaks about what has been done, but the second one speaks about what is proposed to be done, but for last year. Instead of today on the table here we have reports of what was done last year, we are being sent a proposal for a plan for last year that is here we have established past. It is clear that it is an obligation to send these documents to the Assembly and to discuss them, but I see that you see for yourselves how absurd it is for us to discuss and vote on the plan of activity for the year behind us. Let's imagine for a moment that by some miracle at the vote, most of us reject this plan, vote against, what would happen then? Then would you send us a new plan for last year? So that's really completely pointless. I must now say that the report on the implementation of the 2021 plan. Please refer to the procedure as soon as possible because this item is not even included in the agenda. When we talk about how harmful it is that all these reports and the proposals for late plans are, for example. During the pandemic, statistics are neither collected nor processed or used in a way that would help in the rapid decision-making of the crisis. On the pages of the DZS which remain from 2006, be it said, in the section called The effects of the pandemic Covid-19 disease on social economic indicators are not at all what the title implies but always the same indicators and their movements during the crisis. Therefore, there is no statistical processing, no inference, no connection with other relevant indicators and the use of statistics to help decide during the crisis. For example, an institution that could be of great help is, of course, HZJZ because the DZS has both experience and methodology and access to data for such an undertaking, but the problem is in an extremely inflexible approach which actually foresees exclusively long-term planning and modelling, rather than helping institutions in a rapid decision-making crisis use of methodology and statistics in order to adopt public policies, nor does it foresee statistical descripting. For example, compare this with Great Britain, their Office for National Statistics made a joint project in the crown crisis with the British Institute of Public Health, universities in Oxford and Manchester and the Wellco Foundation. As part of the project, they publish daily mass data sets and processed comprehensible images that can be useful to those who are without any statistical knowledge, of course and those who make decisions in crisis. All concepts are explained, again in everyday language and in an understandable way with a special dictionary in a very modern and user friendly interface. Conclusions were also made after the processing of the data, and data sets themselves and their methodology are available. For example, this is a good example of how statistics can be used in a flexible way and to help in the crisis decision that we have unfortunately faced for the past two years. At least for the time being, here we are, unfortunately, sentenced to the 2006 web site to long-term planning and modeling, which in this crisis is completely inappropriate for us to untapped potential and to this debate about the two-year-old report. So the bottom line of this plan is not quite clear how we're going to benefit from the data that's being collected, how this data will help us respond to the challenges we're facing, the great money has been spent preparing for the census, we see it from the reports of the last two years and the plan for last year. But the results of that list are kind of dubious because the checklist hasn't been carried out. Therefore, it is not enough to publish data sets on ancient web sites, it is necessary to process the data. And the job is not finished the moment the databases are published, because citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not exclusive mathematicians and statisticians who can draw conclusions from these data themselves. We were firmly convinced of the work of the Institute, and all of our people are interested in how, for example, the euro will affect prices in shops, how Schengen will affect migration, how the war in Ukraine will affect gas prices or bakery products in the autumn, and this should all be brought closer to the citizens and citizens of Croatia through statistics. Here's my thanks and I hope you'll consider these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98374	The following are individual debates. The first is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98375	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director and the Associates, so if there were a little more attention then you would see, then the colleagues would look at the documents when they came to the Parliament. So the report came in 6 months 2021, processed in 12.7.2021 on the Assembly Committee. Implementing plan for statistical activities in 2021 was too late because it was only nine months and processed on board 24.9. This for the 2021 Implementation Plan was addressed by the Government on 2.12.2021 and processed, i.e. called Committee 7.12.2021. So what happened with the move and the move that happened to come here in the debate is precisely the reason and the covid and a series of other documents, the laws that happened in the meantime, that were passed over to these activities. When we talk about the very activities of the State Statistics Institute, then when a colleague here says that the Institute should predict etc. Then you forget the basic function of the Bureau of Statistics, the State Department of Statistics which actually has and records historical data, not predictions. I mean, it's something that's elemental in knowing statistics. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Economy and Sustainable Development of the Institute of Public Health and, of course, the State Department of Statistics, these are institutions that form the national system of official statistics. Therefore, many data can also be read and obtained from these institutions, and also when all the relevant data published on the State Institute page is seen to be continuously, it means almost 300 activities do what they do on their own, which from other collections, from other administrative sources. So that's something that's a huge mass of data that's being obtained. Among other things, when the budget is planned, everyone is monitored on a monthly basis and on a quarterly basis and on a gross domestic product and gross wages and consumer price indices and employment rates, unemployment, inflation prices, etc. I could list a series of traffic data in the store for large, small, exports, etc. So that's all the data that's getting very spotless and very high-quality from the data I say all relevant institutions, and especially the State Institute that sublimes it and then gives quality data. And it is also forgotten that it is precisely here in this covid when the organization was very complex for the institution, given what conditions they had then you could and can monitor what was given in relation to the effects of the pandemic so research which is covid-19 and how it acted on social economic indicators. Also in 2020, a 2020 agricultural list was carried out where it is very detailed and shows how many OPGs, how many business subjects, how many livestock per number, how many hectares of agricultural surfaces of this type or that type, so there is only a lot of data to be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98376	Replica is the first respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98377	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, I'm actually sorry that we have to do these dates now, and we've actually established here that we're really late with all these adoption plans here for a year, as you've stated. Plan for '21. He entered procedure 9.9.In '21, our committee... He came to the board on 24.9.'21 [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 24.9.21. ed [[/Clip insecure: 12, yes 24.]] So that's what he was supposed to do by the 12th month of '20, so 9 months later and now this plan for '22. It was to be adopted by the law whether it was official statistics until 15.12.In '21, we got him, he got into procedure 2.12, the board came on 7th, okay, let's say that, I don't know, the board adopted him, but he didn't, it's not a council. [[/Clip intrusion: That's right.]] I'm actually saying from this, maybe we shouldn't conclude right now if it's bad work, but we're actually just wondering, and now what are we going to adopt plans for '21? ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98378	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98379	Yeah, I counted this one and said that in relation to the state office here, let's just say the report was correct on the date when it was, when it was regular. Also, this implementation plan in 2022 is within a certain period of time, in 2021 I don't know what reason it is, I don't know what reason it came later and I agree that this should be respected by the legal deadlines, but I am sure that some of the plans of the activities that are happening are obviously the ones that are being repeated, which are legally defined, which are agreed and, and in the commitment of the institutions in view of Eurostat etc., so this is something that doesn't really change every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98380	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98381	Thank you, dear colleague. Official statistics are also important in national and international frameworks because it compares and enables comparison with other countries and activities, and shows where we are, where we have room for progress, where we are lagging behind, where we are good and opens up the possibility of planning activities for all those who need it. That is why statistics must be reliable, clear, timely, available and clear to users. That is why the State Statistics Institute and carry out activities aimed at popularising official statistics, are present on social networks, are making efforts to develop networks, and even have statistical competitions for high school students and a number of more promotional activities. I believe that this is a good way to approach users, but to those who are not aware of the opportunities that the use of official statistics offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98382	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98383	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague, and you've extended everything I haven't said, so this lot of things that are done. What's for me, for example. when I was looking at these very effects of pandemic and covid-19 disease, so one of the indicators is also the number of inhabitants older than 65g. and more and the structure of sex is said to be the fifth inhabitant, for example. in the Republic of Croatia over 65, it is something that we are deeply concerned about, and besides that, in this proportion of women has 508.558, and men 354.105, so it is something that we all have to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98384	Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98385	Thank you. Dear colleague Peric, I would refer to the replica of my colleague Puljak and her debate. So it's really a question under the Law on Official Statistics this plan of activity was supposed to be until 15 December 2020, so the plan of activity for the '21st. was to be adopted by December 15, '20, which means that the year and 3 months are late. Is that even legal, I'm really asking you that, because if the law predicts it and there's no other option in the law than it is there and it's written very precisely by December 15th for next year. Here, so do you know if it's legal and whether it's even possible to vote on it under the law. 34? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98386	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98387	I wish it were within the frameworks as prescribed by the law, I would personally like it to be that way and passed and not be late, but also a lot of other reports we have that come late for these or those reasons, so personally I would like this to be within the legal deadlines as it is intended, whether there are any sanctions and whether it makes any difference I don't think in the statistics itself changes in relation to other possible laws, but here unfortunately in this situation is, some deadlines here have moved and I hope we won't normally practice it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98388	Followed by an individual debate by respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98389	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant, in my debate, I will look back at those without which there would be no statistical plans, no reports, and these are human potentials as well as some other statistical data creators. Official statistics holders in the Republic of Croatia are acting in accordance with the Official Statistics Act, which the State Statistics Institute defines as the central authority for the implementation of statistical activities and is precisely creating the largest number of statistical reports. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, limited and the State Statistics Institute must use cost-effective methods and use modern information communication solutions that involve and ensure human capacities that can respond to the challenges of modern technologies and methods. We are aware of the rapidly growing changes in the areas of economy, agriculture, environmental protection, climate, transport, tourism and many other areas that are statistically monitored and that the authorities responsible for statistics must have the ability to respond to official statistics on the monitoring of all changes. Information seekers want accurate, reliable, quality, detailed and timely information which, for creators in the society of rapid changes, is a major challenge. This is why the system of official statistics must adapt to new trends, use new tools, develop the skills of employees, but also improve the statistical literacy of users, data makers, and improve and simplify the methods of dissemination to make the data more accessible and easier to download and interpret to the interested public. On the day 1.1.2021, the State Statistics Institute has 502 employees who had an average age of 48 years, with a maximum of 45% of employees in the category above 50 years of age who told us that in the next few years, the inevitable departures from the system to retirement are necessary, and in order to maintain the continuity of jobs, it is certainly necessary to strengthen human potentials. In relation to the estimated number of employees, 25% of fewer civil servants and deputies were employed than predicted by systematicisation, with the number of employees continuously falling over the last 10 years. The importance of human potential is also highlighted in the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics for the period 2021, level of expertise and availability, the availability of human potentials is a key element affecting the quality of official statistics. It is therefore necessary to make efforts in the future to continuously increase the number and quality of experts, since this is a matter of really specific knowledge and skills, and it is certainly necessary both internal workshops and training, participation in European courses and all available types of education that will continue to improve the quality of human potential. I will also look back at other stakeholders and statistical data makers whose data is used by official statistics holders, but they also use data from the State Statistics Institute for their reports, such as. HZZ. It keeps records of registered unemployed persons newly registered, employed, registered job-free employment and monthly data processing shall produce standardised reports for national, regional and local levels published through several publications and, as well as through network access to statistical data enabling users to search and create reports independently in accordance with the needs. All of this, this is just one example of bodies that do not include as part of official statistics and participate in the creation of statistical data, so I believe that these bodies should also invest in personnel, train them and provide them with modern information communication solutions. Here is also in the introduction part of the Secretary of State we heard that in the State Statistics Office open job tenders, however the interest is small and certainly is, it will be necessary to improve working conditions and those material conditions and the possibility of progress in the system as expected from a more modern system because otherwise we will not be able to get quality personnel to perform these really specific jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98390	One replica, the esteemed representative Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98391	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you have highlighted both the importance of human potential and this area. The proposal for a 2021 to 2030 strategy on which we have recently discussed puts emphasis on the need for investment in human potentials that must quickly adopt new knowledge and skills, the need to create quality, reliable and with other countries of harmonised statistical reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98392	Thank you, fellow Chichak. Yes, you have well mentioned the importance of human potential is highlighted by the proposal to develop the official strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which we have recently discussed and the analysis of the situation, the picture from this strategy has seen the risk of lack of appropriate quality experts who can respond to global challenges that are further highlighted by EU accession and the need for comparability with the other members in terms of statistical reports. And indeed, in these demanding times of globalisation and digitisation, a quality response to the challenges can only give an educated and quality fit and that is what we have to work on, both in statistics and in all areas of society, and it is certainly necessary to motivate employees what I have already said to better salaries and better working conditions, the possibility of progress, everything that makes people less and less want to do in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98393	Next is the debate of the respected representative of Jurassic Bourcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98394	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It would certainly be good if we had discussed this topic within the legal deadlines, but we are aware that the past two years have not been quite the usual, that there have been a lot of unforeseen things that can be said freely have priority over these reports on the implementation of the annual statistical implementation plan for 2020. Just like planning for 2021 and 2022. Well, just at a point before this, we had a debate on changes to the VAT Act where the Government of the Republic of Croatia lowers VAT in various sectors for reasons of facilitating and reducing the price impact on our citizens. And the responsible government put this on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and we as responsible politicians have also accepted that this is still a slightly higher priority than the State Statistics Institute Report. Also, for the past two years, we have had several such crisis moments since the set of the Law to restore the affected areas, as well as various anti- epidemi measures that we have brought here in this House of Commons, and therefore it is no wonder that it may have been too late with this debate, and on the other hand we heard from the Secretary of State that the Implementation Report as well as the annual implementation plans was adopted by both the Government and the Statistical Council at the time and from our colleague Grodana Peric we heard that they were processed by their parent Committee on Finance and the State Budget also within the legal deadlines. And so we also heard what was most important, that all the results of official statistics were permanently available to all users whether they adopted in time here or not. Therefore, the purpose of official statistics is to produce and disseminate statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics, and official statistics are provided on an impartial basis by the state, economy and the public with reliable statistics on the economic, demographic, social, health and environmental status, activities or events that can be measured by statistical methods, and to ensure that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production and dissemination of official statistics are met. Official statistics are based on the principles of relevance, impartiality, reliability, transparency, timeliness, professional independence, rationality, consistency of the public, statistical confidentiality, use of individual data for the sole statistical purposes of public responsibility. In addition to the law of certain holders of official statistics, these are the State Statistics Institute as a central body, and the Croatian National Bank. The second authorised bodies of official statistics are defined by the programme and the following official statistics holders have been established for the period 2021 to 2027. It is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and the Croatian Institute of Public Health. These institutions constitute the national system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, the annual implementation plan prescribes the implementation of three types of statistical activities. The first are statistics based on direct data collection, the second are statistical surveys from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and the third are development activities, lists and other major, statistical research. As we heard in the reports themselves, the State Statistics Institute plans to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities in 2020 and all are successfully implemented. In addition, the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021 planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities, and the 2022 planned implementation of a total of 288 statistical activities. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. The State Statistics Institute as the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian Statistical System, starting with the principle of financial rationality and applying modern statistical methods in the planning and implementation of the Statistical Activity Programme and the annual implementation plans, shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that they were implemented in 2020 within the budget-planned framework, and this is how it was planned in 2021 with a slightly higher amount due to the census and in 2022 it was planned as at 2020 level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98395	Replica, respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98396	Thank you. Dear colleague Brkan, at the beginning of the club exposure, we heard from a colleague that the reports were almost and unnecessary, that it was a waste of money, that no one was using it. And I'm like someone who's worked in statistics for years who can't agree with that, because I'm aware of the importance of statistical data and analysis. Statistical data are used for their own purposes by different users from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government, county, research institutions, the economy and the general public. Many of our cities and municipalities and institutions for application for example projects use statistics from various sources without which each written project would be incomplete and incomparable with other categories and other users. What is your experience with the experience of working in local self-government regarding the use of statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98397	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. Every serious state keeps statistics, so remember only from the Roman Empire and the census since it's been run, it's one example, and the serious states run significant and quality statistics as the Republic of Croatia does. To say that such statistics are unnecessary is crazy, and on the other hand we can also be aware that serious and quality statistics are something and cost, as are all others, and if they are well planned and spent in accordance with the plan and if on this basis we get good official statistics they will use everyone, JLS of course are important, of course it's important in various segments that I don't list all the statistics we use, but to say that it's unnecessary and that it's too expensive it's the same as saying that the state is unnecessary and too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98398	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98399	Thank you, Vice President. Today we discussed the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities in 2020, the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2021. And in 2022. It is official statistics of the Republic of Croatia which is important in both national and international contexts because it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic situation with other countries. Given EU membership, it is important to ensure that statistics are comparable to data from other countries. Statistics need to be answered on a number of issues from which we see in some ways whether, as a society, as a country, we are moving in a good direction, what our economy, living conditions, employment and a lot of other characteristics whose analysis should be the basis for making decisions in which we should go. Official statistics are developed, produced and adjusted on the basis of basic statistical principles, which are professional independence, impartiality, objectivity, reliability, statistical confidentiality and cost-effectiveness. According to the Official Statistics Act, official statistics are carried out by the State Statistics Institute as a central body, CNB and other bodies designated by the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, namely the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, HZZZ, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. Of the total 274 statistical surveys in 2020 The National Statistics Institute planned and successfully conducted 225 statistical activities, the other bodies also carried out planned statistical activities. The report is structured according to data groups in 6 areas, demographic and social statistics, macroeconomic statistics, business statistics, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, statistics for several areas, and support for the statistical output. All planned research has been carried out in all areas. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities shall be provided in the national budget for 2020. It amounted to 137 million kuna, an increase of 45% compared to the previous year. The increase was due to the implementation of the list of agriculture and preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. During 2020 activities were carried out aimed at popularising official statistics, bringing statistics closer to users and promoting statistical literacy. Some of the activities are also a statistical competition for high school students as a national phase of the European competition with 1475 participants, activities by publication on social networks, marking significant dates, promotional campaigns on social networks, the development of new networks and the like. Annual implementation plan for 2021. The implementation of 293 statistical activities has been planned, of which the State Statistics Office will conduct 245 and the other holders of official statistics. Annual implementation plan for 2022. The implementation of 288 statistical activities is planned, of which the State Statistics Institute will implement 240 and other official statistics holders. Because of the pandemic, some of the research took place in 2020. have faced difficulties, e.g. a labour poll, but personal contact with households successfully replaced by telephone polling. The population test list for 2021 was also delayed. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support that report and the proposals for the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2021 and 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98400	Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on state aid for 2020. Good night, everybody. The session was interrupted in 19.58 hours. As decided this morning, we are moving to a joint debate on points 2, 3, 4 of the agenda foreseen for today, these are: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021. i - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2022. The holder of the act shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 34th and 37th. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Secretary of State Stipe County.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98405	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Given that all three points are united I will start with the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. This report is the third report relating to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2018-20.g. Of the 274 planned statistical activities in 2020 The DZS planned to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities and other official statistics holders a total of 49 activities. Analyzing from the perspective of the entire statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of planned activities was 274 of which all activities were implemented. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan for the Republic of Croatia's 2021 statistical activities, this plan shall be adopted for each year to which the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia relates, so this plan shall be adopted for 2021. the first year of implementation of the statistical programme for the period from 2021-2027.g. The annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities of 160 on the basis of direct data collection of 87 statistical surveys based on administrative sources or on monitoring and monitoring methods and 46 development activities. All activities have also been carried out in accordance with the plan. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. These are planned to implement a total of 278 statistical activities of these 156 based on direct data collection, 88 based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 44 development activities. Of the 278 statistical activities mentioned above, DZS will carry out 240 activities in 2022 while other 48 activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. The financial framework for the implementation of the annual implementation plan in question is contained in the national budget or budgets of the holder of the statistics served and other sources of funds, in particular Eurostat's gifts and EU structural funds. The total amount of funding planned in the state budget for the implementation of the planned statistical activities is 129 million 911 thousand and 293 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98406	Here's a few replicas. First is Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98407	Yes, according to this introduction, statistics would say that statistics are an endlessly boring and unnecessary thing, but we know that they are not and should not be. I am interested in one question, so we have a joint discussion for three points, the second is the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. Today is 17.3.2022. So I'm asking you what's the point of today talking about the plan for the year that's been through? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98408	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, unfortunately you're right there doesn't make any sense, but the fact is that the programme on which that plan was adopted in HS a few weeks ago, and it wouldn't actually be right to have the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021. adopts before the programme on the basis of which it is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98409	Next replica Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98410	Yeah, I mean, actually, what bothers me is really some lateness with all these documents. So the proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan for 2021 was submitted on 9 September 2021, so there was enough time to discuss it at least in the current year. But we are already late for 2022 because already, it means the third month, it would be more logical that the debate is actually being held in 2021. Again, what my colleague Lalovac noticed at the last debate, we actually discussed a programme of statistical activities from 2021 to 2027 and a strategy of statistics, so he well noticed that it might be good for the applicants to have the opportunity to exhibit. Because we often ask questions that the secretary of state doesn't actually have answers, so that would make the director of the Department of Statistics more useful to my questions. And let's say one of the questions is again about what happened in the previous population register, why is it that the population register is not even included in this proposal for an annual implementation plan in the next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98411	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, we also discussed the same couple of weeks here about the establishment of a population register, so it is more than necessary for the Republic of Croatia, and we agreed in fact the last time we discussed it here. However, this is not exclusively an activity from the department of the State Statistics Office since only statistical registers whose data are used exclusively for statistical purposes and not publicly available registers can be established by the Institute. What is the fact is that the State Statistics Institute is supporting, in fact, already working with other state administration bodies, which was publicly published last year in the establishment of administrative registers where data from those registers would in fact be an input, a key input for statistical production, and the establishment of these statistical registers and for the implementation of research, of course, without additional burden on reporting units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98412	Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98413	Thank you. The esteemed state secretaries from the 2020 report show that 274 statistical activities were planned for all holders of official statistics, all successfully realised by which the State Statistics Office had 225 statistical activities. Also in 2020, preparatory activities were carried out around the list of farms, but also the list which was next year, as well as preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. The operator of the activity, the largest number of activities is the State Statistics Institute, which had 502 employees on 1 January 2021, and the indicative number of executives should be 669 which is about 25% lower. Whether the State Statistics Office as a national statistical authority may carry out all the planned activities foreseen by the programmes in the coming period, given the continued reduction in the number of employees over the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98414	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So as far as I'm aware, actually the State Statistics Office has repeatedly opened tenders for new additional employment. Unfortunately, there is the fact of this fluctuation of employees. What I also know is that it is working to enable, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the state administration, more attractive jobs for certain key positions in the State Statistics Office mainly in the part concerning the national accounts and obligations of the Republic of Croatia when joining the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98415	Dear Marina Opačak Bilić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98416	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in general, we can often read a lot of data from statistics, or better to say, we can read almost all the problems in the country. And it was woven from this data if we look back years, there is always a decrease in the population in the Republic of Croatia. My question to you is why do you think the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not in time reflect your data which here can be found on the website of the State Statistics Office. And here you were in the hall just before the end of the last debate, you heard how much we actually have exports of this human potential and how much it actually affects the very Republic of Croatia. And what do you think this is about why the government didn't appreciate your data in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98417	So data from the census isn't something that came suddenly and came in a year. Unfortunately, these trends have been noticeable for over a decade. I have to correct you. It's not my statistics. I am here a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The information published, which you are talking about, is published by the State Statistics Office and is taken into account by the Government in the implementation and planning of its economic policy measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98418	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98419	Dear Secretary of State, as we can see in today's debate, which will come from data coming from the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the 20th, and also from plans for the annual implementation plans in 2021 and 2022, we see that much of the statistical activities have been done and we can see that a lot of the results of the official statistics have been collected. What interests me is whether these results of official statistics were available to users in 2020 and 2021, and even now in 2022, or whether they are locked up and waiting for us to adopt these reports and implementation plans, and even the end-users who can benefit from them cannot. Are they actual here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98420	Yes, you're right, Your Honor. From all three actually reports we see a huge number of the statistical activities that are planned and implemented entirely. So in all three of these reports, the two that have already been carried out and in this fact that we expect to see an extremely large number of statistical activities and a great effort by the staff of the State Statistics Office. It should be pointed out here that it was not easy and easy for them to carry out all these statistical obligations at the beginning of the lockdown or the pandemic of the covid, including the earthquake that took place in Zagreb, and in particular the building of the State Statistics Institute. None of these information was late and they were all regularly published on the website of the State Statistics Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98421	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98422	Dear Secretary of State, we are probably here for the first time in the problem, not that it was late but it went ahead because you were working in advance or the state office was working ahead without a plan, so the plan is being brought in after something was delivered, so this is, I don't know if this should be commended as that service that either this institution and the institution that is very effective, so it does something in advance knowing what the plan will look like. So, we're a little confused because according to the Law on Official Statistics, The 34th said the annual implementation plan is adopted by the HS no later than 15 December of the current year for the following year. So I don't know how these activities are actually carried out at all, which is why either these implementation plans are just one formality, so they're repeated year by year, so people know what they're going to be, and then they're doing their job automatically. Well, that's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98423	I can't say that you're wrong and that the annual implementation plan wasn't adopted on time. Unfortunately, the fact is so, however, the annual implementation plan was adopted by the Croatian Statistical Council before that and adopted by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here today he adopts HS, or discusses the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98424	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98425	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. I feel a little sorry for you, but I feel like giving up on this replica. So you say the statistical advice fulao rock, government fulalala rock, but it doesn't matter now we're going to spin our thumbs, so we're going to discuss here and adopt something that's in a fat, fat delay. But here to continue in this tragic satirical actually tone, I'm going to continue to, I'm going to refer to the question asked by a colleague of the HDZ ranks, he asked how much data is processed by the Croatian Statistics Institute available to the users? So who is the user, is not the user who orders them, who should know what to do next with that data or just to explain, whether the government should know how to use statistics in planning legislative interventions and implementing certain policies among other things. Not in any of the acts I've read in these two years. I haven't seen the government ever refer to statistics that should be the basis of public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98426	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98427	Very briefly, believe governments, governments are the true basis for implementing its policies statistics from the State Statistics Institute, the government is not exclusively a user of these data but in fact all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, private, business sector, international institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98428	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98429	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, how the State Bureau of Statistics conducted the populationization of official statistics during 2020 and what is the plan for the '21st. and in '22.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98430	Well, the State Statistics Department has been doing a series of popularization activities like you say official statistics. This seemed to me recently corresponded to the distinguished representative Puljak also during the discussion of the strategy, so through his Facebook pages and through workshops continued and interactively co-operated, co-operated with those age groups and groups where the results of statistical activities should be popularized. In addition, it is important to note that soon, which is the 4th April of this year, the State Statistics Institute will finally publish data on new websites. That's what we talked about last time and that, and that data will also be tailored to the needs of a wider population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98431	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to debate was reported by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and on their behalf by a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98432	Co-workers of the applicant. My colleagues and colleagues, there's not much to say here. There's actually one question that needs to be asked here, and that question doesn't need to be asked by statistics, that question should be asked to the government. Here the motionary on behalf of the government said we're using statistics. So if you use statistical data then you see trends that happen in this society and then the debate that we had at previous points and for many others that talk about coughing reactions is actually the question of why it is. We're talking here today about something that went against the law in front of this assembly because it's too late. That means the president of the assembly was supposed to react to that. Today we're adopting a program that's in '21. What my colleagues said today is in '22, so it's all done, what I'd really like to see when we get a report like this. I'm absolutely sure more or less that management is doing the assignments, and I said that from this pay phone. The administration does what the policy says. The question is, what did politics ask? Why did politics do something? And how did politics end up taking advantage of it? Here, statistics have done a certain job, I am asked a question other than what 272 research into ceteras, ceteras, who and how has exploited these researches, which is based on these surveys and which policies have been applied or changed to the Republic of Croatia to the benefit of citizens from these statistics? Once here when I was talking about a disaster, then practically the Republic of Croatia is one of the oldest catastra users in Europe. But why the catastra? Because those who ruled part of these spaces except the Dubrovnik Republic who operated their own space wanted to know what they were managing to manage them in a quality way. Thus, from these statistics, one who manages society should read trends and what needs to be changed to make tomorrow better. We had a population list, we had health research. My question, what's on that basis? That is the key question the government needs to answer. We have a program, why we bring this program, what we want to do with it, what we want to read from society to make some moves afterwards. And that's what your colleague asked you. You've been watching statistical reports for years about what's going on in the Republic of Croatia and you're not responding. The point is that you're reacting based on what you or we are telling them, realistically at this point you are because they did something that didn't even come to us. But real politics has given us assignments. Politics asked for some kind of research to do what based on them? That's the key question. I would really like to, whether in the opening part of the report or in the final government when it adopts it says what it used, or why it is looking for some reports because practically this programme is a policy requirement according to, yes, and rather than who? We're adopting this program, we're adopting it for politics. No, you have the EU, contracts, etc., but all of this is made from a policy title. Politics wants to run society. So he wants to know what's going on in society. Politics has brought the program. He doesn't adopt this program parliament so that we can meet here today. He's adopting it because he wants to know what you're going to explore to make better decisions tomorrow based on these studies. It's the meaning of statistics, however, statistics of any data collection. You collect information that happens in society and according to what happens, we make a decision, or government, or, but politics makes a decision. And the government doesn't respond to it all the time. So let me say here, I think that every report should have for a result other than the activities carried out by the administration and what the results were, a man would say what ultimately to the citizens, but what we concluded from what was done. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98433	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98434	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good evening, thank you for the opening presentation and for the information we received from the ministry's representatives. I also congratulate you on the mild self - criticism that some things are late and that time was painful to present some data and some intentions a little earlier, but I also have to say that all this together for this country is not enough at the end of the day. We do not need data to the end how much these statistical analyses have been done that we are now saying hundreds of thousands are made and we have a bunch of these figures, it would mean a lot more to us that other than adapting to EU regulations when we talk about statistical management and that we can throw an eye on how things are going in the Republic of Croatia so that once on this topic that should be too important we can hear, read, learn what the government or governments are doing based on these data and these analyses that we can get from statistical reports. So, if there was a clear hodogram of how we perform according to which number and what we want to get out of which number at the end of the day, because when we add everything together and subtract it except for the correct work done at the end of the day, we have absolutely nothing left to catch up for and what we could say that we're going to do now to make some things better. One of the best examples in this is demographics, because it is being released in official data from the National Statistics Institute from year to year, which is happening to us with the number of inhabitants, but nothing has obviously moved in 10 years, but we have now made a list, determined which parts of Croatia are being evicted, and unfortunately the whole of Croatia, has established that this situation is somewhere, and now we are going to be making some changes and some new plans, regardless of what took 10 years. Also, when we talk about our economy, we are lacking cross-sectoral analyses to see how which sectors have been acting in what age and in what situation they have achieved, and finally that we can read from which economic branches we should throw more weight, and in which we obviously have a turnaround waiting for us. I mean, it's ugly to say, but it turns out that a number of cross-cutting analyses from which we could read in which direction our ship sailed were in the time of Yugoslavia and in the time of the planned economy, so it's definitely not a good way for our economy. Of course, when we talk about the economy there we can automatically switch to the agricultural segment because we are always full of mouths of self-sufficiency in Croatian agricultural production, and what we can see from statistical reports year by year is that absolutely, apart from finding numbers and from time to time, we haven't done anything to reverse the momentum both in the processing of agricultural areas and in the contribution to those agricultural areas, and also in doing something with our livestock fund and cultures that have recognized Croatia for decades at some point in time and based our intensive industrial development. Of course, we could now mention an educational segment where very often on the ground we get observations that what our education is talking about, especially when we talk about vocational education offers on the labour market is not something that satisfies this same labour market, not to say that in the mass of curricula and the programme we remain in the former Yugoslavia, and apparently last 32 years and many other topics that make up a whole segment and packages that one society and one state should be. So, okay, it's good that we get statistical indicators, it's good that we can read what's going on and at what stages, but what's definitely for the government's criticism is that we're not doing enough to process these data, how we're using these programs to put operational programs together and then to come to parliamentary representatives, and then, of course, to the entire interested Croatian public, we had numbers and so, we did that and we think about it or we made a step in the fields. That's why we're doing it in demographics, that's why we're doing it in the economy, that's why we're doing it in the structure of our education system, so ultimately we're doing it in environmental topics, mostly when we're talking about waste management where today this country doesn't know in which direction and how to go, so we're still dealing with the same stories of losses in the water and sewers network, and now I'm not listing all those topics that we all need together to be very important, not just as a statistical indicator, but as a warning, an indicator and after that plan for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98435	Next is the debate on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98436	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We remained impressed with hundreds of pages and thousands of reports on which our government worked hard and thought further to work during 2020. We can only imagine how many hundreds of millions of kunas are spent on IT resources to produce this amount of information, how many different Kojundzic and IT florists are engaged in these processes. For the mental health of taxpayers, it may be better that the real truth about the resources that stand in these reports is never found out. Our government doesn't understand much, but they did learn something, and it's bombing us with thousands of reports to execute information in that sea so they don't pay attention to the key figures that clearly speak in which direction the government leads this country. And continuously, according to research, 70% and more of the population of the Republic of Croatia thinks the government is leading the state in the wrong direction, which says that the government only partially succeeds in its intention by creating various reports to cloud the water on the real state and direction of the Republic of Croatia. We from the Homeland Movement of Persistent Arrival to the Assembly insist on communicating and warning about key figures that expose the incompetence and corruption of this government. So I'm going to look back now on a few facts that you don't have in your statistics. Let's say that out of 15 billion different subsidies that the government has divided over the year, almost half goes to agriculture, and we all know that agricultural production has dropped in the last 10 years about 20% and that we are increasingly dependent on imports. Can these very analysts possibly explain this phenomenon to us? Or we have to say that as far as the government's entire state-owned assets are concerned, through dividends from state-owned enterprises, rentals, concessions and other incomes, only about 2.3 to 2.4 billion kuna per year. The comparisons for the annual amount of penalties paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for traffic offences are equal to half of this amount. So our police put 50% of the total income of state assets worth at least 50 billion euros into the state budget. Do analysts have an explanation for these figures? We can talk a little bit more about concrete figures to make it easier for HDZ analysts to process relevant data. Let's say that support for the survival of Croats in BiH as a strategic priority a few weeks ago, the Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia issued a tender of total value from the miserable five million cooks. Croatian institutions and associations from BiH must collect a bunch of documentation in order to obtain a maximum of 10,000 euros. 10,000 euros can't buy 10 computers for one school. What about the eu resources that stand with these means of being real can't be done anything, nothing relevant. At the same time, however, the HDZ gives about 50 million kuna per year to its coalition partner in support of the SNV to the Serbian National Council. It should not be a statisticist or analyst, so it should be concluded that the HDZ is at this time more important to the stability of the government than the survival of not only Croats in BiH but also the long-term sustainability of the Republic of Croatia itself. There are still numbers we can talk about. So let's say the government has budgeted 900 million kuna to increase pensions, which is enough to increase slightly more than 2%. If official inflation is three times that, and unofficial and five, six times clear is how our pensioners are going to live even harder because we all know it's bigger five, six times, not three times how I mentioned what's official. We have, say, my favorite Minister Berosch, I haven't forgotten his criminal record. The deficit produced by the health system is increasing every year and headed by Minister Beroshe this year will reach a level so that any minor child in Croatia can be paid an allowance of 800 kuna. Every once a child in Croatia. It continues to invest in insane amounts, so only to improve the CESIH system will invest 105 million kuna. Congratulations, Minister Berosha! The government document mentions very much demographic reports. If they had the cheeks, at least they wouldn't have mentioned them, because over 10% of the population has been expelled from the country in the last ten years. What's even worse than that is that we have a negative trend and that major demographic impact is just following us, and we're not doing anything about it. While revenues from state assets have reached only one and a half percent of the EU's share of aid already reached 20% in the budget. Whether we can get good statisticians or analysts from HDZ or not, I don't know where we're going to explain how one day when that donation disappears, we're going to get out of this addiction. We've become drug addicts, we're so addicted to how they are about drugs, so we're about money from the EU. Well, that's not normal for my people, that's not normal. I could still talk for hours about statistics on government results over the past 20 years that have led Croatia to the very bottom of the EU. It is precisely because they are aware that their statistics are a great enemy deliberately working on 300 pages of specifications, some reports to cloud water and take attention off essential things. They're trying with statistical manipulations an extra crazy people who no longer understands anything like a joke whether you believe in me or your own eyes. I mean, don't be so angry, I really don't have anything personal against you, but you and I both know that this is a paper-shaped cabbage that can only serve us to light fire if we make barbecues. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98437	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98438	Okay. I don't think it's like that, let's just say, you don't really have to think I'm burning it like a razor. It seems to me that there are a lot of interesting things here, but what you're saying is more of a symptom or cause of a problem. But I think you'd probably agree with me, too. Although what we actually objected to about this report and the delay in the report, I think there are more criticisms to go to the government than to the institution itself, that is, the holders of statistical activities. There is also the State Statistics Institute, as well as other institutions that are actually in charge of producing this information and this important data. Not only would I not fire it, I use it as a razor, but it really feels that it's the most important tool that we have in economic development first and then in every other development. But the fact that our government doesn't produce any data, and here some have already been mentioned, such as those amongst the sectoral analyses that would be extremely useful to us, which we really had, so 30 years ago and we don't have them anymore, just show that our government doesn't need these analyses, and in other words there's no need for development. Because if she had a need for development, she'd be looking for those exact analyses. Without that analysis, we can't even talk about which direction we're going. How important statistics are, and this is really a data that means objective measurement of the environment in which we live. I don't think there's much to prove. But these cross-sectoral analyses of the impact of individual sectors, meaning domestic employment, on income, on the production of added value of such an analysis, are really crucial for us to develop certain natural sectors. Why did we destroy the shipbuilding? Well, among other things, because we didn't have a vision of development at all, nor the data that would really give us a picture of what these are by multiplying the effects of such a natural branch, how much these businesses can relate to such a large economic sector as shipbuilding. And then we always find ourselves in a situation why small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs, do not have the ability to develop and grow economically because they do not simply have that power that would be needed to really have this natural development. In addition, Germany is your best example. So in order to have small and medium, you have to have large business entities. Well, that's what you got me talking about. I didn't mean to talk about it. What was extremely important to me is just to point out that the State Statistics Institute, but also other statistical means the subjects in Croatia produce the data they are tasked with producing. And for the most part, we have linked to EUROSTAT and European statistics, and that is not good in my opinion. We should have our own statistics, we should produce our own statistical material that would allow us to move beyond those data that are important to the EU in the direction we care about, among other things, those cross-sectoral analyses. As important as statistics are, here we are today, I guess I don't know how many MPs have mentioned one piece of information, and that's the inflation data published yesterday by the State Statistics Office. So we're running all the data that comes from that workshop. I think an auditorium like this, I think it's embarrassing actually for a debate like this because we're here at the very mouth of information that gives us information about where we're going and where we should actually fix things, but that's how it was last time, so nothing new in that sense, right? But here's the information that we crossed an inflation of 6.3% of annual inflation, which is to exceed the inflation rate, for the first time, exceeding the inflation rate of the Eurozone, means 5.8% of it has an impact on, say, the law on the euro that we talked about the other day and on the possibility of autonomous monetary policies that many have discussed here, and now they're not. What was important to us and why we made the conclusion and the request to the government means that the quarterly calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia is also one of the important things and the debate that we are having here all the time. Why is it important, apart from the consumption survey, which the government has answered is that it is made that the State Statistics Institute makes it, we need to quarterlyly calculate the cost of life to make this data mean this minimal consumer basket, I don't like that term consumer basket because it's really about basic needs, we need to do minimum wage, we need to do pension indexing, so the minimum wage can't be 10,400 kunas calculated by the new union tomorrow, so it should be minimum wage to have a decent minimum wage, but we can know where we have a gap between a real dignified minimum wage and that minimum wage we now have and then make a plan to get a minimum wage adjusted with a decent salary, and not that we have what we have now, and even some on the left are falling to say so on what they say and the average pay is 60%. And the trade unions in Europe really advocate 60% of the average salary to be a minimum wage, but the problem is that our average salary is at the level of Slovenian minimum wage. So this data is actually completely irrelevant to us, or we can't stick to that data, we need that calculation that we asked for, and the government refused to do it urgently, but it promised us that this proposal would be included in the medium-term plans of the State Statistics Office, so now I'm appealing again what I did last time to include it. I have seen that the government has also proposed one amendment, no matter how late we are, but that is why I have proposed the amendment, and that amendment means that it is precisely to be included in the calculation amongst other things, and I hope that it will be included. What's also important to say is that there's one more thing we're going to ask for, but this time not from the National Statistics Institute, but from the CNB, which is also the holder of official statistics, that it means that it commits itself to doing research every year on the concentration of savings on individual accounts as they once did in 2014. for the IRS. Why? Because we all know what happens in the paper, the average Croat on the account has 130, 134,000 kuna and then, of course, everyone laughs, so whoever the average Croat is, we've never seen him. Well, that's the data that's really manipulating, and that's why we need the data that unfortunately the CNB made only in 2014, so it means the concentration of savings on individual accounts, and that data, of course, exists, and it can, can come to it, and why it's important, if we have that data, and we have the data from 2014. Only 1.7% keeps 40 percent of the savings in their hands. So the huge concentration of savings means the role in banks is in the hands of a small handful of people and then of course most people have so much savings that the inflation actually ate it, meaning from a few hundred kunas in the account and in that sense means that when we get that data, then it becomes clearer to us, and that Ginny's coefficient that says that we live in an extreme inequality society, so our giant coefficient is 0.89, zero is absolute equality, one is absolute inequality, our own index is 0.89, so we live in an absolute extreme inequality society. What she would end up saying would mean that the State Statistics Institute and other institutions would mean that the statistics are good certainly the State Statistics Institute must correct its problem of lack of expert staff, and it cannot do so, I will repeat it as last time in the debate, so that there are some of the lowest salaries in the state sector. So every honor means strategy, the development of statistics in Croatia where you said you would work on education, but wages are unfortunately what people keep in the institution and these are material living conditions. I'd also say it's very important that we have the lowest salary in the entire state administration, it's only the State Meteorological Institute. Another thing that would improve the status of the State Statistics Institute is that it becomes a scientific institution. It's very important for people to have this verification, that they're a scientific tool, that they produce scientific content, and that's what the State Statistics Institute is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98439	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Mate Čička.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98440	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 2020 It was the year in which the Republic of Croatia and the whole world faced an unprecedented pandemic, which unfortunately took only about 15,000 human lives to the Republic of Croatia. The statistical activities that we have had today are the result of the work and efforts of people in the system of statistics, primarily of the DZS as well as other institutions. By reviewing and collecting statistics, we can have insight into all the areas that are important for the development of Croatia, and we also have insight into the needs and standards of our citizens as well as the problems they face on a daily basis. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system is constantly developing and implementing new statistical activities. As the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian statistical system, the DZS shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia in the planning and implementation of the statistical activities programme and the annual implementation plans. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018-20.g. The following authorised bodies for the performance of official statistics, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Croatian Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have been established. The DZS as the main holder and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia regularly conducts the largest number of surveys. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss The implementation of the statistical plan under the mandate of the DZS was carried out in a timely and dedicated manner within the financial plan for 2020. Programmes of statistical services of activities and ongoing and capital projects with budgetary expenditure worked out in accordance with regulations, programming and economic classification and sources of funding. The report itself shows that DZS was in 2020. systematically working on improving how official statistics are promoted as well as relations with users. This is clearly evident on the basis of their activities on social networks on which a large number of new escorts have been recorded on all official channels. Several promotional campaigns have also been carried out, and the field of covid-19 within which relevant information on the impact of coronaryvirus on certain statistical areas has been introduced. The Institute is in 2020. received a large number of user requests. The report shows that they were most relevant to the area of population statistics and then to labour market statistics and to the area of trade in goods with abroad. All of the above activities of the DZS have contributed to the development of customer relations and to the promotion and modernisation of the ways in which users access data and rationalisation of costs. DZS in 2021. planning the overall implementation of 293 statistical activities from which the State Institute conducts 245 while the rest is carried out by other official statistics holders. From the Annual Plan of Statistical Activities for 2021. You can see how planned activities in demographic and social statistics, economic statistics, sectoral statistics, environmental statistics and statistics are for several areas. We can also see from the annual plan how DZS actively participates in the revision of the statistical classification of economic activities and how it coordinates different activities in the field of statistical confidentiality. In order to obtain data arising from the needs of the state administration body, the scientific community, the general public and other users from the Republic of Croatia in the programme are also listed by national... 2022. The programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2021-2027 is planned to implement 288 statistical activities. DZS in 2022. carry out 240 statistical activities while other activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. Based on this document, we can see how it is systematically working on developing new and improving existing communication channels and publishing media with a view to more effective promotion of the results of official statistics. I would also like to emphasise that the DZS is coordinating various activities in the field of statistical confidentiality and access to micro-data to improve the availability of micro-data and to increase the availability of databases for scientific purposes. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the Croatian statistical activities for 2020. and Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 and '22nd statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98441	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98442	Thank you. Dear, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just to remind myself of what we here today have united these three points under one point, that is, the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020, then the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, and today it seems to me to be 17 March 2022. So we're already working, we're analyzing the report on the implementation of the activity in 2020, so 2 years ago, and with these two plans we've already missed the legal deadlines. And now the question is, so the Croatian Parliament should adopt them by 15 December of next year at the latest. So on December 15, 2020, we were supposed to adopt this plan for '21 and by '21, December 15, '21. We needed this plan for '22. So we here in the assembly are going to bring in some illegal, I don't know we're going to vote on plans that actually missed legal deadlines here. Now the question is, does it make any sense to vote on them? Can we support some illegal activity? I know when I was, here's two terms I was in the city council, when we were coming up with some decisions that weren't in accordance with the laws we'd just come out of the session, they wouldn't want to take part in the session because we're discussing something that doesn't comply with the laws. But okay. I'm saying that's why I asked how some activities were led when the plan wasn't, then are these plans for all the years actually very similar and they always do one of these same activities and then actually the state's office knows what to do, so then these plans that they've come up with don't have to be brought in, they're busy, right? So it's kind of a weird whole situation. I'm going here now here just repeat a few things from the discussion about the strategy we had a few weeks ago. Why is statistics important? It should again be highlighted whether it should be the basis for some public policies. So here's the statistics in Croatia that in 2020, when we're talking about that year, as many as 10% died than the year before, 10.1%. Statistics show that observed indicators of poverty for Croatia from 2015 to '20. continuously record growth at year-on-year. According to Eurostat, Croatia has confirmed the position of the second poorest country in Europe, and only Bulgaria is worse than us. You can also see from the statistics that the standard in Croatia is 56% weaker than in Germany. In one week, statistics said that Croatia broke out first in the world after dying from Covid weekly compared to the number of inhabitants. So you can see all of this from statistics. That is right, statistics also say that after this census in Croatia lives exactly 396.360 inhabitants less than or 9.25% compared to 2011. So a lot of data can give us those statistics. They are in fact whether facts or information is obtained from a set of numerical data that are important for planning at all levels for both individual and business entities, and would say for the economic and social development of the country as a whole. Especially today, statistics are important in times like this: the global crisis is caused not only by the pandemic but by this war. So, every day we follow numbers, before in the pandemic the numbers of the dead, the infected, the deaths of millions of people, etc., today we are here and with the news daily we follow the news of this war. So, statistics are the one that needs to and can answer many questions like whether society is moving in the desired direction, whether unemployment is increased, decreased, whether CO2 emissions are higher than 10 years ago, what the success of the national economy is compared to other EU members, and on this basis, as I said, there should be some policies, some laws, some directions, the direction of action. However, we are witnessing that sometimes politics often choose from all this data whether it is what it is and what it wants to interpret whether it is in its own way and then create policies based only on selected data. Although independence whether statistics or official statistics are important for its quality, it is embedded in all these legal frameworks in order to prevent some political influences in some way, but here I say at the end politics is the power, an executive authority that defines some direction in this country and ultimately chooses again from that statistics what suits it. Two things I'm going to do the same thing here from, that are important, from this debate on strategy. Statistical literacy, therefore, is important to promote whether we are all together as citizens, and all other institutions of this country are statistically written whether it is especially in today's modern environment. And it is important to work on raising statistical literacy both through education and through school programmes, both in schools and in colleges, and through the activities of the State Statistics Institute, whether it should therefore be involved in some way and co-operated with educational institutions, and also with the Croatian Statistical Society and work on increasing and statistical literacy. I say here's a commendation, I see there's a lot of activity on social networks, and that's commendable, and something my colleague here and Peovic highlighted the human potential of the State Statistics Institute. So we've seen here in the present and very strategy that in some way we're thinking of raising the level of these people, human potentials in a way that promises them and provides them with some kind of better education. But nowadays it is really not enough to keep IT experts, I say especially with salaries like today, it is very difficult to actually get someone to work in the public administration, especially now and in the DZS given the level of pay because in the private sector of IT sector today you can achieve multiple more wages and that is something that people will have to do, so what the strategy says as one of the goals of raising employees' capacity I don't really think that this goal is going to result in people not running away from that institution anymore. Here's just so much I say problems with the date of all these plans and actually something that's not in line with that Official Statistics Act either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98443	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives of the Honored Representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98444	Thank you. Respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we're discussing a couple of things united. The first is the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. So, first of all, I will question the meaning and relevance of the discussion of the two-year-old report. We are regularly, unfortunately, discussing important documents with really years of delay, whether the reports of the Croatian Supervisory Board, the CNB, the police work reports or here is now the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of our country's statistical activities. We are aware that this is something that we, but also many other colleagues and colleagues often warn you so that from the parliamentary majority of the executive authorities, it enters into one ear quickly, but yet I invite you to stop and think about what it actually means to be a problem. In the last three years, we have experienced great earthquakes of the economic crisis, the global pandemic, and now and unfortunately the war that will have a long-term impact on our fellow citizens and citizens as well as on Croatia's future and that we have had the opportunity to discuss this document when it was time, so last year, preferably somewhere at its beginning, we might have the opportunity to direct future data collection in the direction that it really needs most, but like this with two years of delay and without public debate, it is really questionable how much it all makes sense together. However, well, the first document proposed by the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2021. So for the last year, we really don't see the point. The first document at least speaks about what has been done, but the second one speaks about what is proposed to be done, but for last year. Instead of today on the table here we have reports of what was done last year, we are being sent a proposal for a plan for last year that is here we have established past. It is clear that it is an obligation to send these documents to the Assembly and to discuss them, but I see that you see for yourselves how absurd it is for us to discuss and vote on the plan of activity for the year behind us. Let's imagine for a moment that by some miracle at the vote, most of us reject this plan, vote against, what would happen then? Then would you send us a new plan for last year? So that's really completely pointless. I must now say that the report on the implementation of the 2021 plan. Please refer to the procedure as soon as possible because this item is not even included in the agenda. When we talk about how harmful it is that all these reports and the proposals for late plans are, for example. During the pandemic, statistics are neither collected nor processed or used in a way that would help in the rapid decision-making of the crisis. On the pages of the DZS which remain from 2006, be it said, in the section called The effects of the pandemic Covid-19 disease on social economic indicators are not at all what the title implies but always the same indicators and their movements during the crisis. Therefore, there is no statistical processing, no inference, no connection with other relevant indicators and the use of statistics to help decide during the crisis. For example, an institution that could be of great help is, of course, HZJZ because the DZS has both experience and methodology and access to data for such an undertaking, but the problem is in an extremely inflexible approach which actually foresees exclusively long-term planning and modelling, rather than helping institutions in a rapid decision-making crisis use of methodology and statistics in order to adopt public policies, nor does it foresee statistical descripting. For example, compare this with Great Britain, their Office for National Statistics made a joint project in the crown crisis with the British Institute of Public Health, universities in Oxford and Manchester and the Wellco Foundation. As part of the project, they publish daily mass data sets and processed comprehensible images that can be useful to those who are without any statistical knowledge, of course and those who make decisions in crisis. All concepts are explained, again in everyday language and in an understandable way with a special dictionary in a very modern and user friendly interface. Conclusions were also made after the processing of the data, and data sets themselves and their methodology are available. For example, this is a good example of how statistics can be used in a flexible way and to help in the crisis decision that we have unfortunately faced for the past two years. At least for the time being, here we are, unfortunately, sentenced to the 2006 web site to long-term planning and modeling, which in this crisis is completely inappropriate for us to untapped potential and to this debate about the two-year-old report. So the bottom line of this plan is not quite clear how we're going to benefit from the data that's being collected, how this data will help us respond to the challenges we're facing, the great money has been spent preparing for the census, we see it from the reports of the last two years and the plan for last year. But the results of that list are kind of dubious because the checklist hasn't been carried out. Therefore, it is not enough to publish data sets on ancient web sites, it is necessary to process the data. And the job is not finished the moment the databases are published, because citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not exclusive mathematicians and statisticians who can draw conclusions from these data themselves. We were firmly convinced of the work of the Institute, and all of our people are interested in how, for example, the euro will affect prices in shops, how Schengen will affect migration, how the war in Ukraine will affect gas prices or bakery products in the autumn, and this should all be brought closer to the citizens and citizens of Croatia through statistics. Here's my thanks and I hope you'll consider these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98445	The following are individual debates. The first is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98446	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director and the Associates, so if there were a little more attention then you would see, then the colleagues would look at the documents when they came to the Parliament. So the report came in 6 months 2021, processed in 12.7.2021 on the Assembly Committee. Implementing plan for statistical activities in 2021 was too late because it was only nine months and processed on board 24.9. This for the 2021 Implementation Plan was addressed by the Government on 2.12.2021 and processed, i.e. called Committee 7.12.2021. So what happened with the move and the move that happened to come here in the debate is precisely the reason and the covid and a series of other documents, the laws that happened in the meantime, that were passed over to these activities. When we talk about the very activities of the State Statistics Institute, then when a colleague here says that the Institute should predict etc. Then you forget the basic function of the Bureau of Statistics, the State Department of Statistics which actually has and records historical data, not predictions. I mean, it's something that's elemental in knowing statistics. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Economy and Sustainable Development of the Institute of Public Health and, of course, the State Department of Statistics, these are institutions that form the national system of official statistics. Therefore, many data can also be read and obtained from these institutions, and also when all the relevant data published on the State Institute page is seen to be continuously, it means almost 300 activities do what they do on their own, which from other collections, from other administrative sources. So that's something that's a huge mass of data that's being obtained. Among other things, when the budget is planned, everyone is monitored on a monthly basis and on a quarterly basis and on a gross domestic product and gross wages and consumer price indices and employment rates, unemployment, inflation prices, etc. I could list a series of traffic data in the store for large, small, exports, etc. So that's all the data that's getting very spotless and very high-quality from the data I say all relevant institutions, and especially the State Institute that sublimes it and then gives quality data. And it is also forgotten that it is precisely here in this covid when the organization was very complex for the institution, given what conditions they had then you could and can monitor what was given in relation to the effects of the pandemic so research which is covid-19 and how it acted on social economic indicators. Also in 2020, a 2020 agricultural list was carried out where it is very detailed and shows how many OPGs, how many business subjects, how many livestock per number, how many hectares of agricultural surfaces of this type or that type, so there is only a lot of data to be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98447	Replica is the first respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98448	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, I'm actually sorry that we have to do these dates now, and we've actually established here that we're really late with all these adoption plans here for a year, as you've stated. Plan for '21. He entered procedure 9.9.In '21, our committee... He came to the board on 24.9.'21 [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 24.9.21. ed [[/Clip insecure: 12, yes 24.]] So that's what he was supposed to do by the 12th month of '20, so 9 months later and now this plan for '22. It was to be adopted by the law whether it was official statistics until 15.12.In '21, we got him, he got into procedure 2.12, the board came on 7th, okay, let's say that, I don't know, the board adopted him, but he didn't, it's not a council. [[/Clip intrusion: That's right.]] I'm actually saying from this, maybe we shouldn't conclude right now if it's bad work, but we're actually just wondering, and now what are we going to adopt plans for '21? ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98449	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98450	Yeah, I counted this one and said that in relation to the state office here, let's just say the report was correct on the date when it was, when it was regular. Also, this implementation plan in 2022 is within a certain period of time, in 2021 I don't know what reason it is, I don't know what reason it came later and I agree that this should be respected by the legal deadlines, but I am sure that some of the plans of the activities that are happening are obviously the ones that are being repeated, which are legally defined, which are agreed and, and in the commitment of the institutions in view of Eurostat etc., so this is something that doesn't really change every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98451	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98452	Thank you, dear colleague. Official statistics are also important in national and international frameworks because it compares and enables comparison with other countries and activities, and shows where we are, where we have room for progress, where we are lagging behind, where we are good and opens up the possibility of planning activities for all those who need it. That is why statistics must be reliable, clear, timely, available and clear to users. That is why the State Statistics Institute and carry out activities aimed at popularising official statistics, are present on social networks, are making efforts to develop networks, and even have statistical competitions for high school students and a number of more promotional activities. I believe that this is a good way to approach users, but to those who are not aware of the opportunities that the use of official statistics offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98453	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98454	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague, and you've extended everything I haven't said, so this lot of things that are done. What's for me, for example. when I was looking at these very effects of pandemic and covid-19 disease, so one of the indicators is also the number of inhabitants older than 65g. and more and the structure of sex is said to be the fifth inhabitant, for example. in the Republic of Croatia over 65, it is something that we are deeply concerned about, and besides that, in this proportion of women has 508.558, and men 354.105, so it is something that we all have to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98455	Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98456	Thank you. Dear colleague Peric, I would refer to the replica of my colleague Puljak and her debate. So it's really a question under the Law on Official Statistics this plan of activity was supposed to be until 15 December 2020, so the plan of activity for the '21st. was to be adopted by December 15, '20, which means that the year and 3 months are late. Is that even legal, I'm really asking you that, because if the law predicts it and there's no other option in the law than it is there and it's written very precisely by December 15th for next year. Here, so do you know if it's legal and whether it's even possible to vote on it under the law. 34? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98457	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98458	I wish it were within the frameworks as prescribed by the law, I would personally like it to be that way and passed and not be late, but also a lot of other reports we have that come late for these or those reasons, so personally I would like this to be within the legal deadlines as it is intended, whether there are any sanctions and whether it makes any difference I don't think in the statistics itself changes in relation to other possible laws, but here unfortunately in this situation is, some deadlines here have moved and I hope we won't normally practice it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98459	Followed by an individual debate by respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98460	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant, in my debate, I will look back at those without which there would be no statistical plans, no reports, and these are human potentials as well as some other statistical data creators. Official statistics holders in the Republic of Croatia are acting in accordance with the Official Statistics Act, which the State Statistics Institute defines as the central authority for the implementation of statistical activities and is precisely creating the largest number of statistical reports. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, limited and the State Statistics Institute must use cost-effective methods and use modern information communication solutions that involve and ensure human capacities that can respond to the challenges of modern technologies and methods. We are aware of the rapidly growing changes in the areas of economy, agriculture, environmental protection, climate, transport, tourism and many other areas that are statistically monitored and that the authorities responsible for statistics must have the ability to respond to official statistics on the monitoring of all changes. Information seekers want accurate, reliable, quality, detailed and timely information which, for creators in the society of rapid changes, is a major challenge. This is why the system of official statistics must adapt to new trends, use new tools, develop the skills of employees, but also improve the statistical literacy of users, data makers, and improve and simplify the methods of dissemination to make the data more accessible and easier to download and interpret to the interested public. On the day 1.1.2021, the State Statistics Institute has 502 employees who had an average age of 48 years, with a maximum of 45% of employees in the category above 50 years of age who told us that in the next few years, the inevitable departures from the system to retirement are necessary, and in order to maintain the continuity of jobs, it is certainly necessary to strengthen human potentials. In relation to the estimated number of employees, 25% of fewer civil servants and deputies were employed than predicted by systematicisation, with the number of employees continuously falling over the last 10 years. The importance of human potential is also highlighted in the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics for the period 2021, level of expertise and availability, the availability of human potentials is a key element affecting the quality of official statistics. It is therefore necessary to make efforts in the future to continuously increase the number and quality of experts, since this is a matter of really specific knowledge and skills, and it is certainly necessary both internal workshops and training, participation in European courses and all available types of education that will continue to improve the quality of human potential. I will also look back at other stakeholders and statistical data makers whose data is used by official statistics holders, but they also use data from the State Statistics Institute for their reports, such as. HZZ. It keeps records of registered unemployed persons newly registered, employed, registered job-free employment and monthly data processing shall produce standardised reports for national, regional and local levels published through several publications and, as well as through network access to statistical data enabling users to search and create reports independently in accordance with the needs. All of this, this is just one example of bodies that do not include as part of official statistics and participate in the creation of statistical data, so I believe that these bodies should also invest in personnel, train them and provide them with modern information communication solutions. Here is also in the introduction part of the Secretary of State we heard that in the State Statistics Office open job tenders, however the interest is small and certainly is, it will be necessary to improve working conditions and those material conditions and the possibility of progress in the system as expected from a more modern system because otherwise we will not be able to get quality personnel to perform these really specific jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98461	One replica, the esteemed representative Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98462	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you have highlighted both the importance of human potential and this area. The proposal for a 2021 to 2030 strategy on which we have recently discussed puts emphasis on the need for investment in human potentials that must quickly adopt new knowledge and skills, the need to create quality, reliable and with other countries of harmonised statistical reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98463	Thank you, fellow Chichak. Yes, you have well mentioned the importance of human potential is highlighted by the proposal to develop the official strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which we have recently discussed and the analysis of the situation, the picture from this strategy has seen the risk of lack of appropriate quality experts who can respond to global challenges that are further highlighted by EU accession and the need for comparability with the other members in terms of statistical reports. And indeed, in these demanding times of globalisation and digitisation, a quality response to the challenges can only give an educated and quality fit and that is what we have to work on, both in statistics and in all areas of society, and it is certainly necessary to motivate employees what I have already said to better salaries and better working conditions, the possibility of progress, everything that makes people less and less want to do in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98464	Next is the debate of the respected representative of Jurassic Bourcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98465	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It would certainly be good if we had discussed this topic within the legal deadlines, but we are aware that the past two years have not been quite the usual, that there have been a lot of unforeseen things that can be said freely have priority over these reports on the implementation of the annual statistical implementation plan for 2020. Just like planning for 2021 and 2022. Well, just at a point before this, we had a debate on changes to the VAT Act where the Government of the Republic of Croatia lowers VAT in various sectors for reasons of facilitating and reducing the price impact on our citizens. And the responsible government put this on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and we as responsible politicians have also accepted that this is still a slightly higher priority than the State Statistics Institute Report. Also, for the past two years, we have had several such crisis moments since the set of the Law to restore the affected areas, as well as various anti- epidemi measures that we have brought here in this House of Commons, and therefore it is no wonder that it may have been too late with this debate, and on the other hand we heard from the Secretary of State that the Implementation Report as well as the annual implementation plans was adopted by both the Government and the Statistical Council at the time and from our colleague Grodana Peric we heard that they were processed by their parent Committee on Finance and the State Budget also within the legal deadlines. And so we also heard what was most important, that all the results of official statistics were permanently available to all users whether they adopted in time here or not. Therefore, the purpose of official statistics is to produce and disseminate statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics, and official statistics are provided on an impartial basis by the state, economy and the public with reliable statistics on the economic, demographic, social, health and environmental status, activities or events that can be measured by statistical methods, and to ensure that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production and dissemination of official statistics are met. Official statistics are based on the principles of relevance, impartiality, reliability, transparency, timeliness, professional independence, rationality, consistency of the public, statistical confidentiality, use of individual data for the sole statistical purposes of public responsibility. In addition to the law of certain holders of official statistics, these are the State Statistics Institute as a central body, and the Croatian National Bank. The second authorised bodies of official statistics are defined by the programme and the following official statistics holders have been established for the period 2021 to 2027. It is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and the Croatian Institute of Public Health. These institutions constitute the national system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, the annual implementation plan prescribes the implementation of three types of statistical activities. The first are statistics based on direct data collection, the second are statistical surveys from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and the third are development activities, lists and other major, statistical research. As we heard in the reports themselves, the State Statistics Institute plans to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities in 2020 and all are successfully implemented. In addition, the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021 planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities, and the 2022 planned implementation of a total of 288 statistical activities. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. The State Statistics Institute as the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian Statistical System, starting with the principle of financial rationality and applying modern statistical methods in the planning and implementation of the Statistical Activity Programme and the annual implementation plans, shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that they were implemented in 2020 within the budget-planned framework, and this is how it was planned in 2021 with a slightly higher amount due to the census and in 2022 it was planned as at 2020 level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98466	Replica, respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98467	Thank you. Dear colleague Brkan, at the beginning of the club exposure, we heard from a colleague that the reports were almost and unnecessary, that it was a waste of money, that no one was using it. And I'm like someone who's worked in statistics for years who can't agree with that, because I'm aware of the importance of statistical data and analysis. Statistical data are used for their own purposes by different users from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government, county, research institutions, the economy and the general public. Many of our cities and municipalities and institutions for application for example projects use statistics from various sources without which each written project would be incomplete and incomparable with other categories and other users. What is your experience with the experience of working in local self-government regarding the use of statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98468	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. Every serious state keeps statistics, so remember only from the Roman Empire and the census since it's been run, it's one example, and the serious states run significant and quality statistics as the Republic of Croatia does. To say that such statistics are unnecessary is crazy, and on the other hand we can also be aware that serious and quality statistics are something and cost, as are all others, and if they are well planned and spent in accordance with the plan and if on this basis we get good official statistics they will use everyone, JLS of course are important, of course it's important in various segments that I don't list all the statistics we use, but to say that it's unnecessary and that it's too expensive it's the same as saying that the state is unnecessary and too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98469	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98470	Thank you, Vice President. Today we discussed the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities in 2020, the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2021. And in 2022. It is official statistics of the Republic of Croatia which is important in both national and international contexts because it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic situation with other countries. Given EU membership, it is important to ensure that statistics are comparable to data from other countries. Statistics need to be answered on a number of issues from which we see in some ways whether, as a society, as a country, we are moving in a good direction, what our economy, living conditions, employment and a lot of other characteristics whose analysis should be the basis for making decisions in which we should go. Official statistics are developed, produced and adjusted on the basis of basic statistical principles, which are professional independence, impartiality, objectivity, reliability, statistical confidentiality and cost-effectiveness. According to the Official Statistics Act, official statistics are carried out by the State Statistics Institute as a central body, CNB and other bodies designated by the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, namely the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, HZZZ, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. Of the total 274 statistical surveys in 2020 The National Statistics Institute planned and successfully conducted 225 statistical activities, the other bodies also carried out planned statistical activities. The report is structured according to data groups in 6 areas, demographic and social statistics, macroeconomic statistics, business statistics, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, statistics for several areas, and support for the statistical output. All planned research has been carried out in all areas. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities shall be provided in the national budget for 2020. It amounted to 137 million kuna, an increase of 45% compared to the previous year. The increase was due to the implementation of the list of agriculture and preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. During 2020 activities were carried out aimed at popularising official statistics, bringing statistics closer to users and promoting statistical literacy. Some of the activities are also a statistical competition for high school students as a national phase of the European competition with 1475 participants, activities by publication on social networks, marking significant dates, promotional campaigns on social networks, the development of new networks and the like. Annual implementation plan for 2021. The implementation of 293 statistical activities has been planned, of which the State Statistics Office will conduct 245 and the other holders of official statistics. Annual implementation plan for 2022. The implementation of 288 statistical activities is planned, of which the State Statistics Institute will implement 240 and other official statistics holders. Because of the pandemic, some of the research took place in 2020. have faced difficulties, e.g. a labour poll, but personal contact with households successfully replaced by telephone polling. The population test list for 2021 was also delayed. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support that report and the proposals for the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2021 and 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98471	Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on state aid for 2020. Good night, everybody. The session was interrupted in 19.58 hours. As decided this morning, we are moving to a joint debate on points 2, 3, 4 of the agenda foreseen for today, these are: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021. i - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2022. The holder of the act shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 34th and 37th. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Secretary of State Stipe County.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98474	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Given that all three points are united I will start with the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. This report is the third report relating to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2018-20.g. Of the 274 planned statistical activities in 2020 The DZS planned to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities and other official statistics holders a total of 49 activities. Analyzing from the perspective of the entire statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of planned activities was 274 of which all activities were implemented. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan for the Republic of Croatia's 2021 statistical activities, this plan shall be adopted for each year to which the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia relates, so this plan shall be adopted for 2021. the first year of implementation of the statistical programme for the period from 2021-2027.g. The annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities of 160 on the basis of direct data collection of 87 statistical surveys based on administrative sources or on monitoring and monitoring methods and 46 development activities. All activities have also been carried out in accordance with the plan. As regards the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. These are planned to implement a total of 278 statistical activities of these 156 based on direct data collection, 88 based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 44 development activities. Of the 278 statistical activities mentioned above, DZS will carry out 240 activities in 2022 while other 48 activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. The financial framework for the implementation of the annual implementation plan in question is contained in the national budget or budgets of the holder of the statistics served and other sources of funds, in particular Eurostat's gifts and EU structural funds. The total amount of funding planned in the state budget for the implementation of the planned statistical activities is 129 million 911 thousand and 293 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98475	Here's a few replicas. First is Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98476	Yes, according to this introduction, statistics would say that statistics are an endlessly boring and unnecessary thing, but we know that they are not and should not be. I am interested in one question, so we have a joint discussion for three points, the second is the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. Today is 17.3.2022. So I'm asking you what's the point of today talking about the plan for the year that's been through? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98477	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, unfortunately you're right there doesn't make any sense, but the fact is that the programme on which that plan was adopted in HS a few weeks ago, and it wouldn't actually be right to have the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021. adopts before the programme on the basis of which it is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98478	Next replica Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98479	Yeah, I mean, actually, what bothers me is really some lateness with all these documents. So the proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan for 2021 was submitted on 9 September 2021, so there was enough time to discuss it at least in the current year. But we are already late for 2022 because already, it means the third month, it would be more logical that the debate is actually being held in 2021. Again, what my colleague Lalovac noticed at the last debate, we actually discussed a programme of statistical activities from 2021 to 2027 and a strategy of statistics, so he well noticed that it might be good for the applicants to have the opportunity to exhibit. Because we often ask questions that the secretary of state doesn't actually have answers, so that would make the director of the Department of Statistics more useful to my questions. And let's say one of the questions is again about what happened in the previous population register, why is it that the population register is not even included in this proposal for an annual implementation plan in the next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98480	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Yes, we also discussed the same couple of weeks here about the establishment of a population register, so it is more than necessary for the Republic of Croatia, and we agreed in fact the last time we discussed it here. However, this is not exclusively an activity from the department of the State Statistics Office since only statistical registers whose data are used exclusively for statistical purposes and not publicly available registers can be established by the Institute. What is the fact is that the State Statistics Institute is supporting, in fact, already working with other state administration bodies, which was publicly published last year in the establishment of administrative registers where data from those registers would in fact be an input, a key input for statistical production, and the establishment of these statistical registers and for the implementation of research, of course, without additional burden on reporting units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98481	Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98482	Thank you. The esteemed state secretaries from the 2020 report show that 274 statistical activities were planned for all holders of official statistics, all successfully realised by which the State Statistics Office had 225 statistical activities. Also in 2020, preparatory activities were carried out around the list of farms, but also the list which was next year, as well as preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. The operator of the activity, the largest number of activities is the State Statistics Institute, which had 502 employees on 1 January 2021, and the indicative number of executives should be 669 which is about 25% lower. Whether the State Statistics Office as a national statistical authority may carry out all the planned activities foreseen by the programmes in the coming period, given the continued reduction in the number of employees over the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98483	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So as far as I'm aware, actually the State Statistics Office has repeatedly opened tenders for new additional employment. Unfortunately, there is the fact of this fluctuation of employees. What I also know is that it is working to enable, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the state administration, more attractive jobs for certain key positions in the State Statistics Office mainly in the part concerning the national accounts and obligations of the Republic of Croatia when joining the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98484	Dear Marina Opačak Bilić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98485	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in general, we can often read a lot of data from statistics, or better to say, we can read almost all the problems in the country. And it was woven from this data if we look back years, there is always a decrease in the population in the Republic of Croatia. My question to you is why do you think the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not in time reflect your data which here can be found on the website of the State Statistics Office. And here you were in the hall just before the end of the last debate, you heard how much we actually have exports of this human potential and how much it actually affects the very Republic of Croatia. And what do you think this is about why the government didn't appreciate your data in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98486	So data from the census isn't something that came suddenly and came in a year. Unfortunately, these trends have been noticeable for over a decade. I have to correct you. It's not my statistics. I am here a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The information published, which you are talking about, is published by the State Statistics Office and is taken into account by the Government in the implementation and planning of its economic policy measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98487	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98488	Dear Secretary of State, as we can see in today's debate, which will come from data coming from the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the 20th, and also from plans for the annual implementation plans in 2021 and 2022, we see that much of the statistical activities have been done and we can see that a lot of the results of the official statistics have been collected. What interests me is whether these results of official statistics were available to users in 2020 and 2021, and even now in 2022, or whether they are locked up and waiting for us to adopt these reports and implementation plans, and even the end-users who can benefit from them cannot. Are they actual here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98489	Yes, you're right, Your Honor. From all three actually reports we see a huge number of the statistical activities that are planned and implemented entirely. So in all three of these reports, the two that have already been carried out and in this fact that we expect to see an extremely large number of statistical activities and a great effort by the staff of the State Statistics Office. It should be pointed out here that it was not easy and easy for them to carry out all these statistical obligations at the beginning of the lockdown or the pandemic of the covid, including the earthquake that took place in Zagreb, and in particular the building of the State Statistics Institute. None of these information was late and they were all regularly published on the website of the State Statistics Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98490	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98491	Dear Secretary of State, we are probably here for the first time in the problem, not that it was late but it went ahead because you were working in advance or the state office was working ahead without a plan, so the plan is being brought in after something was delivered, so this is, I don't know if this should be commended as that service that either this institution and the institution that is very effective, so it does something in advance knowing what the plan will look like. So, we're a little confused because according to the Law on Official Statistics, The 34th said the annual implementation plan is adopted by the HS no later than 15 December of the current year for the following year. So I don't know how these activities are actually carried out at all, which is why either these implementation plans are just one formality, so they're repeated year by year, so people know what they're going to be, and then they're doing their job automatically. Well, that's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98492	I can't say that you're wrong and that the annual implementation plan wasn't adopted on time. Unfortunately, the fact is so, however, the annual implementation plan was adopted by the Croatian Statistical Council before that and adopted by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here today he adopts HS, or discusses the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98493	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98494	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. I feel a little sorry for you, but I feel like giving up on this replica. So you say the statistical advice fulao rock, government fulalala rock, but it doesn't matter now we're going to spin our thumbs, so we're going to discuss here and adopt something that's in a fat, fat delay. But here to continue in this tragic satirical actually tone, I'm going to continue to, I'm going to refer to the question asked by a colleague of the HDZ ranks, he asked how much data is processed by the Croatian Statistics Institute available to the users? So who is the user, is not the user who orders them, who should know what to do next with that data or just to explain, whether the government should know how to use statistics in planning legislative interventions and implementing certain policies among other things. Not in any of the acts I've read in these two years. I haven't seen the government ever refer to statistics that should be the basis of public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98495	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98496	Very briefly, believe governments, governments are the true basis for implementing its policies statistics from the State Statistics Institute, the government is not exclusively a user of these data but in fact all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, private, business sector, international institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98497	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, how the State Bureau of Statistics conducted the populationization of official statistics during 2020 and what is the plan for the '21st. and in '22.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98499	Well, the State Statistics Department has been doing a series of popularization activities like you say official statistics. This seemed to me recently corresponded to the distinguished representative Puljak also during the discussion of the strategy, so through his Facebook pages and through workshops continued and interactively co-operated, co-operated with those age groups and groups where the results of statistical activities should be popularized. In addition, it is important to note that soon, which is the 4th April of this year, the State Statistics Institute will finally publish data on new websites. That's what we talked about last time and that, and that data will also be tailored to the needs of a wider population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98500	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to debate was reported by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and on their behalf by a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98501	Co-workers of the applicant. My colleagues and colleagues, there's not much to say here. There's actually one question that needs to be asked here, and that question doesn't need to be asked by statistics, that question should be asked to the government. Here the motionary on behalf of the government said we're using statistics. So if you use statistical data then you see trends that happen in this society and then the debate that we had at previous points and for many others that talk about coughing reactions is actually the question of why it is. We're talking here today about something that went against the law in front of this assembly because it's too late. That means the president of the assembly was supposed to react to that. Today we're adopting a program that's in '21. What my colleagues said today is in '22, so it's all done, what I'd really like to see when we get a report like this. I'm absolutely sure more or less that management is doing the assignments, and I said that from this pay phone. The administration does what the policy says. The question is, what did politics ask? Why did politics do something? And how did politics end up taking advantage of it? Here, statistics have done a certain job, I am asked a question other than what 272 research into ceteras, ceteras, who and how has exploited these researches, which is based on these surveys and which policies have been applied or changed to the Republic of Croatia to the benefit of citizens from these statistics? Once here when I was talking about a disaster, then practically the Republic of Croatia is one of the oldest catastra users in Europe. But why the catastra? Because those who ruled part of these spaces except the Dubrovnik Republic who operated their own space wanted to know what they were managing to manage them in a quality way. Thus, from these statistics, one who manages society should read trends and what needs to be changed to make tomorrow better. We had a population list, we had health research. My question, what's on that basis? That is the key question the government needs to answer. We have a program, why we bring this program, what we want to do with it, what we want to read from society to make some moves afterwards. And that's what your colleague asked you. You've been watching statistical reports for years about what's going on in the Republic of Croatia and you're not responding. The point is that you're reacting based on what you or we are telling them, realistically at this point you are because they did something that didn't even come to us. But real politics has given us assignments. Politics asked for some kind of research to do what based on them? That's the key question. I would really like to, whether in the opening part of the report or in the final government when it adopts it says what it used, or why it is looking for some reports because practically this programme is a policy requirement according to, yes, and rather than who? We're adopting this program, we're adopting it for politics. No, you have the EU, contracts, etc., but all of this is made from a policy title. Politics wants to run society. So he wants to know what's going on in society. Politics has brought the program. He doesn't adopt this program parliament so that we can meet here today. He's adopting it because he wants to know what you're going to explore to make better decisions tomorrow based on these studies. It's the meaning of statistics, however, statistics of any data collection. You collect information that happens in society and according to what happens, we make a decision, or government, or, but politics makes a decision. And the government doesn't respond to it all the time. So let me say here, I think that every report should have for a result other than the activities carried out by the administration and what the results were, a man would say what ultimately to the citizens, but what we concluded from what was done. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98502	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98503	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good evening, thank you for the opening presentation and for the information we received from the ministry's representatives. I also congratulate you on the mild self - criticism that some things are late and that time was painful to present some data and some intentions a little earlier, but I also have to say that all this together for this country is not enough at the end of the day. We do not need data to the end how much these statistical analyses have been done that we are now saying hundreds of thousands are made and we have a bunch of these figures, it would mean a lot more to us that other than adapting to EU regulations when we talk about statistical management and that we can throw an eye on how things are going in the Republic of Croatia so that once on this topic that should be too important we can hear, read, learn what the government or governments are doing based on these data and these analyses that we can get from statistical reports. So, if there was a clear hodogram of how we perform according to which number and what we want to get out of which number at the end of the day, because when we add everything together and subtract it except for the correct work done at the end of the day, we have absolutely nothing left to catch up for and what we could say that we're going to do now to make some things better. One of the best examples in this is demographics, because it is being released in official data from the National Statistics Institute from year to year, which is happening to us with the number of inhabitants, but nothing has obviously moved in 10 years, but we have now made a list, determined which parts of Croatia are being evicted, and unfortunately the whole of Croatia, has established that this situation is somewhere, and now we are going to be making some changes and some new plans, regardless of what took 10 years. Also, when we talk about our economy, we are lacking cross-sectoral analyses to see how which sectors have been acting in what age and in what situation they have achieved, and finally that we can read from which economic branches we should throw more weight, and in which we obviously have a turnaround waiting for us. I mean, it's ugly to say, but it turns out that a number of cross-cutting analyses from which we could read in which direction our ship sailed were in the time of Yugoslavia and in the time of the planned economy, so it's definitely not a good way for our economy. Of course, when we talk about the economy there we can automatically switch to the agricultural segment because we are always full of mouths of self-sufficiency in Croatian agricultural production, and what we can see from statistical reports year by year is that absolutely, apart from finding numbers and from time to time, we haven't done anything to reverse the momentum both in the processing of agricultural areas and in the contribution to those agricultural areas, and also in doing something with our livestock fund and cultures that have recognized Croatia for decades at some point in time and based our intensive industrial development. Of course, we could now mention an educational segment where very often on the ground we get observations that what our education is talking about, especially when we talk about vocational education offers on the labour market is not something that satisfies this same labour market, not to say that in the mass of curricula and the programme we remain in the former Yugoslavia, and apparently last 32 years and many other topics that make up a whole segment and packages that one society and one state should be. So, okay, it's good that we get statistical indicators, it's good that we can read what's going on and at what stages, but what's definitely for the government's criticism is that we're not doing enough to process these data, how we're using these programs to put operational programs together and then to come to parliamentary representatives, and then, of course, to the entire interested Croatian public, we had numbers and so, we did that and we think about it or we made a step in the fields. That's why we're doing it in demographics, that's why we're doing it in the economy, that's why we're doing it in the structure of our education system, so ultimately we're doing it in environmental topics, mostly when we're talking about waste management where today this country doesn't know in which direction and how to go, so we're still dealing with the same stories of losses in the water and sewers network, and now I'm not listing all those topics that we all need together to be very important, not just as a statistical indicator, but as a warning, an indicator and after that plan for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98504	Next is the debate on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98505	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We remained impressed with hundreds of pages and thousands of reports on which our government worked hard and thought further to work during 2020. We can only imagine how many hundreds of millions of kunas are spent on IT resources to produce this amount of information, how many different Kojundzic and IT florists are engaged in these processes. For the mental health of taxpayers, it may be better that the real truth about the resources that stand in these reports is never found out. Our government doesn't understand much, but they did learn something, and it's bombing us with thousands of reports to execute information in that sea so they don't pay attention to the key figures that clearly speak in which direction the government leads this country. And continuously, according to research, 70% and more of the population of the Republic of Croatia thinks the government is leading the state in the wrong direction, which says that the government only partially succeeds in its intention by creating various reports to cloud the water on the real state and direction of the Republic of Croatia. We from the Homeland Movement of Persistent Arrival to the Assembly insist on communicating and warning about key figures that expose the incompetence and corruption of this government. So I'm going to look back now on a few facts that you don't have in your statistics. Let's say that out of 15 billion different subsidies that the government has divided over the year, almost half goes to agriculture, and we all know that agricultural production has dropped in the last 10 years about 20% and that we are increasingly dependent on imports. Can these very analysts possibly explain this phenomenon to us? Or we have to say that as far as the government's entire state-owned assets are concerned, through dividends from state-owned enterprises, rentals, concessions and other incomes, only about 2.3 to 2.4 billion kuna per year. The comparisons for the annual amount of penalties paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for traffic offences are equal to half of this amount. So our police put 50% of the total income of state assets worth at least 50 billion euros into the state budget. Do analysts have an explanation for these figures? We can talk a little bit more about concrete figures to make it easier for HDZ analysts to process relevant data. Let's say that support for the survival of Croats in BiH as a strategic priority a few weeks ago, the Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia issued a tender of total value from the miserable five million cooks. Croatian institutions and associations from BiH must collect a bunch of documentation in order to obtain a maximum of 10,000 euros. 10,000 euros can't buy 10 computers for one school. What about the eu resources that stand with these means of being real can't be done anything, nothing relevant. At the same time, however, the HDZ gives about 50 million kuna per year to its coalition partner in support of the SNV to the Serbian National Council. It should not be a statisticist or analyst, so it should be concluded that the HDZ is at this time more important to the stability of the government than the survival of not only Croats in BiH but also the long-term sustainability of the Republic of Croatia itself. There are still numbers we can talk about. So let's say the government has budgeted 900 million kuna to increase pensions, which is enough to increase slightly more than 2%. If official inflation is three times that, and unofficial and five, six times clear is how our pensioners are going to live even harder because we all know it's bigger five, six times, not three times how I mentioned what's official. We have, say, my favorite Minister Berosch, I haven't forgotten his criminal record. The deficit produced by the health system is increasing every year and headed by Minister Beroshe this year will reach a level so that any minor child in Croatia can be paid an allowance of 800 kuna. Every once a child in Croatia. It continues to invest in insane amounts, so only to improve the CESIH system will invest 105 million kuna. Congratulations, Minister Berosha! The government document mentions very much demographic reports. If they had the cheeks, at least they wouldn't have mentioned them, because over 10% of the population has been expelled from the country in the last ten years. What's even worse than that is that we have a negative trend and that major demographic impact is just following us, and we're not doing anything about it. While revenues from state assets have reached only one and a half percent of the EU's share of aid already reached 20% in the budget. Whether we can get good statisticians or analysts from HDZ or not, I don't know where we're going to explain how one day when that donation disappears, we're going to get out of this addiction. We've become drug addicts, we're so addicted to how they are about drugs, so we're about money from the EU. Well, that's not normal for my people, that's not normal. I could still talk for hours about statistics on government results over the past 20 years that have led Croatia to the very bottom of the EU. It is precisely because they are aware that their statistics are a great enemy deliberately working on 300 pages of specifications, some reports to cloud water and take attention off essential things. They're trying with statistical manipulations an extra crazy people who no longer understands anything like a joke whether you believe in me or your own eyes. I mean, don't be so angry, I really don't have anything personal against you, but you and I both know that this is a paper-shaped cabbage that can only serve us to light fire if we make barbecues. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98506	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98507	Okay. I don't think it's like that, let's just say, you don't really have to think I'm burning it like a razor. It seems to me that there are a lot of interesting things here, but what you're saying is more of a symptom or cause of a problem. But I think you'd probably agree with me, too. Although what we actually objected to about this report and the delay in the report, I think there are more criticisms to go to the government than to the institution itself, that is, the holders of statistical activities. There is also the State Statistics Institute, as well as other institutions that are actually in charge of producing this information and this important data. Not only would I not fire it, I use it as a razor, but it really feels that it's the most important tool that we have in economic development first and then in every other development. But the fact that our government doesn't produce any data, and here some have already been mentioned, such as those amongst the sectoral analyses that would be extremely useful to us, which we really had, so 30 years ago and we don't have them anymore, just show that our government doesn't need these analyses, and in other words there's no need for development. Because if she had a need for development, she'd be looking for those exact analyses. Without that analysis, we can't even talk about which direction we're going. How important statistics are, and this is really a data that means objective measurement of the environment in which we live. I don't think there's much to prove. But these cross-sectoral analyses of the impact of individual sectors, meaning domestic employment, on income, on the production of added value of such an analysis, are really crucial for us to develop certain natural sectors. Why did we destroy the shipbuilding? Well, among other things, because we didn't have a vision of development at all, nor the data that would really give us a picture of what these are by multiplying the effects of such a natural branch, how much these businesses can relate to such a large economic sector as shipbuilding. And then we always find ourselves in a situation why small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs, do not have the ability to develop and grow economically because they do not simply have that power that would be needed to really have this natural development. In addition, Germany is your best example. So in order to have small and medium, you have to have large business entities. Well, that's what you got me talking about. I didn't mean to talk about it. What was extremely important to me is just to point out that the State Statistics Institute, but also other statistical means the subjects in Croatia produce the data they are tasked with producing. And for the most part, we have linked to EUROSTAT and European statistics, and that is not good in my opinion. We should have our own statistics, we should produce our own statistical material that would allow us to move beyond those data that are important to the EU in the direction we care about, among other things, those cross-sectoral analyses. As important as statistics are, here we are today, I guess I don't know how many MPs have mentioned one piece of information, and that's the inflation data published yesterday by the State Statistics Office. So we're running all the data that comes from that workshop. I think an auditorium like this, I think it's embarrassing actually for a debate like this because we're here at the very mouth of information that gives us information about where we're going and where we should actually fix things, but that's how it was last time, so nothing new in that sense, right? But here's the information that we crossed an inflation of 6.3% of annual inflation, which is to exceed the inflation rate, for the first time, exceeding the inflation rate of the Eurozone, means 5.8% of it has an impact on, say, the law on the euro that we talked about the other day and on the possibility of autonomous monetary policies that many have discussed here, and now they're not. What was important to us and why we made the conclusion and the request to the government means that the quarterly calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia is also one of the important things and the debate that we are having here all the time. Why is it important, apart from the consumption survey, which the government has answered is that it is made that the State Statistics Institute makes it, we need to quarterlyly calculate the cost of life to make this data mean this minimal consumer basket, I don't like that term consumer basket because it's really about basic needs, we need to do minimum wage, we need to do pension indexing, so the minimum wage can't be 10,400 kunas calculated by the new union tomorrow, so it should be minimum wage to have a decent minimum wage, but we can know where we have a gap between a real dignified minimum wage and that minimum wage we now have and then make a plan to get a minimum wage adjusted with a decent salary, and not that we have what we have now, and even some on the left are falling to say so on what they say and the average pay is 60%. And the trade unions in Europe really advocate 60% of the average salary to be a minimum wage, but the problem is that our average salary is at the level of Slovenian minimum wage. So this data is actually completely irrelevant to us, or we can't stick to that data, we need that calculation that we asked for, and the government refused to do it urgently, but it promised us that this proposal would be included in the medium-term plans of the State Statistics Office, so now I'm appealing again what I did last time to include it. I have seen that the government has also proposed one amendment, no matter how late we are, but that is why I have proposed the amendment, and that amendment means that it is precisely to be included in the calculation amongst other things, and I hope that it will be included. What's also important to say is that there's one more thing we're going to ask for, but this time not from the National Statistics Institute, but from the CNB, which is also the holder of official statistics, that it means that it commits itself to doing research every year on the concentration of savings on individual accounts as they once did in 2014. for the IRS. Why? Because we all know what happens in the paper, the average Croat on the account has 130, 134,000 kuna and then, of course, everyone laughs, so whoever the average Croat is, we've never seen him. Well, that's the data that's really manipulating, and that's why we need the data that unfortunately the CNB made only in 2014, so it means the concentration of savings on individual accounts, and that data, of course, exists, and it can, can come to it, and why it's important, if we have that data, and we have the data from 2014. Only 1.7% keeps 40 percent of the savings in their hands. So the huge concentration of savings means the role in banks is in the hands of a small handful of people and then of course most people have so much savings that the inflation actually ate it, meaning from a few hundred kunas in the account and in that sense means that when we get that data, then it becomes clearer to us, and that Ginny's coefficient that says that we live in an extreme inequality society, so our giant coefficient is 0.89, zero is absolute equality, one is absolute inequality, our own index is 0.89, so we live in an absolute extreme inequality society. What she would end up saying would mean that the State Statistics Institute and other institutions would mean that the statistics are good certainly the State Statistics Institute must correct its problem of lack of expert staff, and it cannot do so, I will repeat it as last time in the debate, so that there are some of the lowest salaries in the state sector. So every honor means strategy, the development of statistics in Croatia where you said you would work on education, but wages are unfortunately what people keep in the institution and these are material living conditions. I'd also say it's very important that we have the lowest salary in the entire state administration, it's only the State Meteorological Institute. Another thing that would improve the status of the State Statistics Institute is that it becomes a scientific institution. It's very important for people to have this verification, that they're a scientific tool, that they produce scientific content, and that's what the State Statistics Institute is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98508	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Mate Čička.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98509	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 2020 It was the year in which the Republic of Croatia and the whole world faced an unprecedented pandemic, which unfortunately took only about 15,000 human lives to the Republic of Croatia. The statistical activities that we have had today are the result of the work and efforts of people in the system of statistics, primarily of the DZS as well as other institutions. By reviewing and collecting statistics, we can have insight into all the areas that are important for the development of Croatia, and we also have insight into the needs and standards of our citizens as well as the problems they face on a daily basis. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system is constantly developing and implementing new statistical activities. As the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian statistical system, the DZS shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia in the planning and implementation of the statistical activities programme and the annual implementation plans. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018-20.g. The following authorised bodies for the performance of official statistics, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Croatian Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have been established. The DZS as the main holder and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia regularly conducts the largest number of surveys. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss The implementation of the statistical plan under the mandate of the DZS was carried out in a timely and dedicated manner within the financial plan for 2020. Programmes of statistical services of activities and ongoing and capital projects with budgetary expenditure worked out in accordance with regulations, programming and economic classification and sources of funding. The report itself shows that DZS was in 2020. systematically working on improving how official statistics are promoted as well as relations with users. This is clearly evident on the basis of their activities on social networks on which a large number of new escorts have been recorded on all official channels. Several promotional campaigns have also been carried out, and the field of covid-19 within which relevant information on the impact of coronaryvirus on certain statistical areas has been introduced. The Institute is in 2020. received a large number of user requests. The report shows that they were most relevant to the area of population statistics and then to labour market statistics and to the area of trade in goods with abroad. All of the above activities of the DZS have contributed to the development of customer relations and to the promotion and modernisation of the ways in which users access data and rationalisation of costs. DZS in 2021. planning the overall implementation of 293 statistical activities from which the State Institute conducts 245 while the rest is carried out by other official statistics holders. From the Annual Plan of Statistical Activities for 2021. You can see how planned activities in demographic and social statistics, economic statistics, sectoral statistics, environmental statistics and statistics are for several areas. We can also see from the annual plan how DZS actively participates in the revision of the statistical classification of economic activities and how it coordinates different activities in the field of statistical confidentiality. In order to obtain data arising from the needs of the state administration body, the scientific community, the general public and other users from the Republic of Croatia in the programme are also listed by national... 2022. The programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2021-2027 is planned to implement 288 statistical activities. DZS in 2022. carry out 240 statistical activities while other activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders. Based on this document, we can see how it is systematically working on developing new and improving existing communication channels and publishing media with a view to more effective promotion of the results of official statistics. I would also like to emphasise that the DZS is coordinating various activities in the field of statistical confidentiality and access to micro-data to improve the availability of micro-data and to increase the availability of databases for scientific purposes. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the Croatian statistical activities for 2020. and Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2021 and '22nd statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98510	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98511	Thank you. Dear, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just to remind myself of what we here today have united these three points under one point, that is, the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020, then the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, and today it seems to me to be 17 March 2022. So we're already working, we're analyzing the report on the implementation of the activity in 2020, so 2 years ago, and with these two plans we've already missed the legal deadlines. And now the question is, so the Croatian Parliament should adopt them by 15 December of next year at the latest. So on December 15, 2020, we were supposed to adopt this plan for '21 and by '21, December 15, '21. We needed this plan for '22. So we here in the assembly are going to bring in some illegal, I don't know we're going to vote on plans that actually missed legal deadlines here. Now the question is, does it make any sense to vote on them? Can we support some illegal activity? I know when I was, here's two terms I was in the city council, when we were coming up with some decisions that weren't in accordance with the laws we'd just come out of the session, they wouldn't want to take part in the session because we're discussing something that doesn't comply with the laws. But okay. I'm saying that's why I asked how some activities were led when the plan wasn't, then are these plans for all the years actually very similar and they always do one of these same activities and then actually the state's office knows what to do, so then these plans that they've come up with don't have to be brought in, they're busy, right? So it's kind of a weird whole situation. I'm going here now here just repeat a few things from the discussion about the strategy we had a few weeks ago. Why is statistics important? It should again be highlighted whether it should be the basis for some public policies. So here's the statistics in Croatia that in 2020, when we're talking about that year, as many as 10% died than the year before, 10.1%. Statistics show that observed indicators of poverty for Croatia from 2015 to '20. continuously record growth at year-on-year. According to Eurostat, Croatia has confirmed the position of the second poorest country in Europe, and only Bulgaria is worse than us. You can also see from the statistics that the standard in Croatia is 56% weaker than in Germany. In one week, statistics said that Croatia broke out first in the world after dying from Covid weekly compared to the number of inhabitants. So you can see all of this from statistics. That is right, statistics also say that after this census in Croatia lives exactly 396.360 inhabitants less than or 9.25% compared to 2011. So a lot of data can give us those statistics. They are in fact whether facts or information is obtained from a set of numerical data that are important for planning at all levels for both individual and business entities, and would say for the economic and social development of the country as a whole. Especially today, statistics are important in times like this: the global crisis is caused not only by the pandemic but by this war. So, every day we follow numbers, before in the pandemic the numbers of the dead, the infected, the deaths of millions of people, etc., today we are here and with the news daily we follow the news of this war. So, statistics are the one that needs to and can answer many questions like whether society is moving in the desired direction, whether unemployment is increased, decreased, whether CO2 emissions are higher than 10 years ago, what the success of the national economy is compared to other EU members, and on this basis, as I said, there should be some policies, some laws, some directions, the direction of action. However, we are witnessing that sometimes politics often choose from all this data whether it is what it is and what it wants to interpret whether it is in its own way and then create policies based only on selected data. Although independence whether statistics or official statistics are important for its quality, it is embedded in all these legal frameworks in order to prevent some political influences in some way, but here I say at the end politics is the power, an executive authority that defines some direction in this country and ultimately chooses again from that statistics what suits it. Two things I'm going to do the same thing here from, that are important, from this debate on strategy. Statistical literacy, therefore, is important to promote whether we are all together as citizens, and all other institutions of this country are statistically written whether it is especially in today's modern environment. And it is important to work on raising statistical literacy both through education and through school programmes, both in schools and in colleges, and through the activities of the State Statistics Institute, whether it should therefore be involved in some way and co-operated with educational institutions, and also with the Croatian Statistical Society and work on increasing and statistical literacy. I say here's a commendation, I see there's a lot of activity on social networks, and that's commendable, and something my colleague here and Peovic highlighted the human potential of the State Statistics Institute. So we've seen here in the present and very strategy that in some way we're thinking of raising the level of these people, human potentials in a way that promises them and provides them with some kind of better education. But nowadays it is really not enough to keep IT experts, I say especially with salaries like today, it is very difficult to actually get someone to work in the public administration, especially now and in the DZS given the level of pay because in the private sector of IT sector today you can achieve multiple more wages and that is something that people will have to do, so what the strategy says as one of the goals of raising employees' capacity I don't really think that this goal is going to result in people not running away from that institution anymore. Here's just so much I say problems with the date of all these plans and actually something that's not in line with that Official Statistics Act either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98512	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives of the Honored Representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98513	Thank you. Respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we're discussing a couple of things united. The first is the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. So, first of all, I will question the meaning and relevance of the discussion of the two-year-old report. We are regularly, unfortunately, discussing important documents with really years of delay, whether the reports of the Croatian Supervisory Board, the CNB, the police work reports or here is now the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of our country's statistical activities. We are aware that this is something that we, but also many other colleagues and colleagues often warn you so that from the parliamentary majority of the executive authorities, it enters into one ear quickly, but yet I invite you to stop and think about what it actually means to be a problem. In the last three years, we have experienced great earthquakes of the economic crisis, the global pandemic, and now and unfortunately the war that will have a long-term impact on our fellow citizens and citizens as well as on Croatia's future and that we have had the opportunity to discuss this document when it was time, so last year, preferably somewhere at its beginning, we might have the opportunity to direct future data collection in the direction that it really needs most, but like this with two years of delay and without public debate, it is really questionable how much it all makes sense together. However, well, the first document proposed by the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2021. So for the last year, we really don't see the point. The first document at least speaks about what has been done, but the second one speaks about what is proposed to be done, but for last year. Instead of today on the table here we have reports of what was done last year, we are being sent a proposal for a plan for last year that is here we have established past. It is clear that it is an obligation to send these documents to the Assembly and to discuss them, but I see that you see for yourselves how absurd it is for us to discuss and vote on the plan of activity for the year behind us. Let's imagine for a moment that by some miracle at the vote, most of us reject this plan, vote against, what would happen then? Then would you send us a new plan for last year? So that's really completely pointless. I must now say that the report on the implementation of the 2021 plan. Please refer to the procedure as soon as possible because this item is not even included in the agenda. When we talk about how harmful it is that all these reports and the proposals for late plans are, for example. During the pandemic, statistics are neither collected nor processed or used in a way that would help in the rapid decision-making of the crisis. On the pages of the DZS which remain from 2006, be it said, in the section called The effects of the pandemic Covid-19 disease on social economic indicators are not at all what the title implies but always the same indicators and their movements during the crisis. Therefore, there is no statistical processing, no inference, no connection with other relevant indicators and the use of statistics to help decide during the crisis. For example, an institution that could be of great help is, of course, HZJZ because the DZS has both experience and methodology and access to data for such an undertaking, but the problem is in an extremely inflexible approach which actually foresees exclusively long-term planning and modelling, rather than helping institutions in a rapid decision-making crisis use of methodology and statistics in order to adopt public policies, nor does it foresee statistical descripting. For example, compare this with Great Britain, their Office for National Statistics made a joint project in the crown crisis with the British Institute of Public Health, universities in Oxford and Manchester and the Wellco Foundation. As part of the project, they publish daily mass data sets and processed comprehensible images that can be useful to those who are without any statistical knowledge, of course and those who make decisions in crisis. All concepts are explained, again in everyday language and in an understandable way with a special dictionary in a very modern and user friendly interface. Conclusions were also made after the processing of the data, and data sets themselves and their methodology are available. For example, this is a good example of how statistics can be used in a flexible way and to help in the crisis decision that we have unfortunately faced for the past two years. At least for the time being, here we are, unfortunately, sentenced to the 2006 web site to long-term planning and modeling, which in this crisis is completely inappropriate for us to untapped potential and to this debate about the two-year-old report. So the bottom line of this plan is not quite clear how we're going to benefit from the data that's being collected, how this data will help us respond to the challenges we're facing, the great money has been spent preparing for the census, we see it from the reports of the last two years and the plan for last year. But the results of that list are kind of dubious because the checklist hasn't been carried out. Therefore, it is not enough to publish data sets on ancient web sites, it is necessary to process the data. And the job is not finished the moment the databases are published, because citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not exclusive mathematicians and statisticians who can draw conclusions from these data themselves. We were firmly convinced of the work of the Institute, and all of our people are interested in how, for example, the euro will affect prices in shops, how Schengen will affect migration, how the war in Ukraine will affect gas prices or bakery products in the autumn, and this should all be brought closer to the citizens and citizens of Croatia through statistics. Here's my thanks and I hope you'll consider these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98514	The following are individual debates. The first is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98515	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director and the Associates, so if there were a little more attention then you would see, then the colleagues would look at the documents when they came to the Parliament. So the report came in 6 months 2021, processed in 12.7.2021 on the Assembly Committee. Implementing plan for statistical activities in 2021 was too late because it was only nine months and processed on board 24.9. This for the 2021 Implementation Plan was addressed by the Government on 2.12.2021 and processed, i.e. called Committee 7.12.2021. So what happened with the move and the move that happened to come here in the debate is precisely the reason and the covid and a series of other documents, the laws that happened in the meantime, that were passed over to these activities. When we talk about the very activities of the State Statistics Institute, then when a colleague here says that the Institute should predict etc. Then you forget the basic function of the Bureau of Statistics, the State Department of Statistics which actually has and records historical data, not predictions. I mean, it's something that's elemental in knowing statistics. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Economy and Sustainable Development of the Institute of Public Health and, of course, the State Department of Statistics, these are institutions that form the national system of official statistics. Therefore, many data can also be read and obtained from these institutions, and also when all the relevant data published on the State Institute page is seen to be continuously, it means almost 300 activities do what they do on their own, which from other collections, from other administrative sources. So that's something that's a huge mass of data that's being obtained. Among other things, when the budget is planned, everyone is monitored on a monthly basis and on a quarterly basis and on a gross domestic product and gross wages and consumer price indices and employment rates, unemployment, inflation prices, etc. I could list a series of traffic data in the store for large, small, exports, etc. So that's all the data that's getting very spotless and very high-quality from the data I say all relevant institutions, and especially the State Institute that sublimes it and then gives quality data. And it is also forgotten that it is precisely here in this covid when the organization was very complex for the institution, given what conditions they had then you could and can monitor what was given in relation to the effects of the pandemic so research which is covid-19 and how it acted on social economic indicators. Also in 2020, a 2020 agricultural list was carried out where it is very detailed and shows how many OPGs, how many business subjects, how many livestock per number, how many hectares of agricultural surfaces of this type or that type, so there is only a lot of data to be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98516	Replica is the first respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98517	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, I'm actually sorry that we have to do these dates now, and we've actually established here that we're really late with all these adoption plans here for a year, as you've stated. Plan for '21. He entered procedure 9.9.In '21, our committee... He came to the board on 24.9.'21 [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 24.9.21. ed [[/Clip insecure: 12, yes 24.]] So that's what he was supposed to do by the 12th month of '20, so 9 months later and now this plan for '22. It was to be adopted by the law whether it was official statistics until 15.12.In '21, we got him, he got into procedure 2.12, the board came on 7th, okay, let's say that, I don't know, the board adopted him, but he didn't, it's not a council. [[/Clip intrusion: That's right.]] I'm actually saying from this, maybe we shouldn't conclude right now if it's bad work, but we're actually just wondering, and now what are we going to adopt plans for '21? ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98518	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98519	Yeah, I counted this one and said that in relation to the state office here, let's just say the report was correct on the date when it was, when it was regular. Also, this implementation plan in 2022 is within a certain period of time, in 2021 I don't know what reason it is, I don't know what reason it came later and I agree that this should be respected by the legal deadlines, but I am sure that some of the plans of the activities that are happening are obviously the ones that are being repeated, which are legally defined, which are agreed and, and in the commitment of the institutions in view of Eurostat etc., so this is something that doesn't really change every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98520	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98521	Thank you, dear colleague. Official statistics are also important in national and international frameworks because it compares and enables comparison with other countries and activities, and shows where we are, where we have room for progress, where we are lagging behind, where we are good and opens up the possibility of planning activities for all those who need it. That is why statistics must be reliable, clear, timely, available and clear to users. That is why the State Statistics Institute and carry out activities aimed at popularising official statistics, are present on social networks, are making efforts to develop networks, and even have statistical competitions for high school students and a number of more promotional activities. I believe that this is a good way to approach users, but to those who are not aware of the opportunities that the use of official statistics offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98522	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98523	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague, and you've extended everything I haven't said, so this lot of things that are done. What's for me, for example. when I was looking at these very effects of pandemic and covid-19 disease, so one of the indicators is also the number of inhabitants older than 65g. and more and the structure of sex is said to be the fifth inhabitant, for example. in the Republic of Croatia over 65, it is something that we are deeply concerned about, and besides that, in this proportion of women has 508.558, and men 354.105, so it is something that we all have to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98524	Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98525	Thank you. Dear colleague Peric, I would refer to the replica of my colleague Puljak and her debate. So it's really a question under the Law on Official Statistics this plan of activity was supposed to be until 15 December 2020, so the plan of activity for the '21st. was to be adopted by December 15, '20, which means that the year and 3 months are late. Is that even legal, I'm really asking you that, because if the law predicts it and there's no other option in the law than it is there and it's written very precisely by December 15th for next year. Here, so do you know if it's legal and whether it's even possible to vote on it under the law. 34? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98526	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98527	I wish it were within the frameworks as prescribed by the law, I would personally like it to be that way and passed and not be late, but also a lot of other reports we have that come late for these or those reasons, so personally I would like this to be within the legal deadlines as it is intended, whether there are any sanctions and whether it makes any difference I don't think in the statistics itself changes in relation to other possible laws, but here unfortunately in this situation is, some deadlines here have moved and I hope we won't normally practice it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98528	Followed by an individual debate by respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98529	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant, in my debate, I will look back at those without which there would be no statistical plans, no reports, and these are human potentials as well as some other statistical data creators. Official statistics holders in the Republic of Croatia are acting in accordance with the Official Statistics Act, which the State Statistics Institute defines as the central authority for the implementation of statistical activities and is precisely creating the largest number of statistical reports. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, limited and the State Statistics Institute must use cost-effective methods and use modern information communication solutions that involve and ensure human capacities that can respond to the challenges of modern technologies and methods. We are aware of the rapidly growing changes in the areas of economy, agriculture, environmental protection, climate, transport, tourism and many other areas that are statistically monitored and that the authorities responsible for statistics must have the ability to respond to official statistics on the monitoring of all changes. Information seekers want accurate, reliable, quality, detailed and timely information which, for creators in the society of rapid changes, is a major challenge. This is why the system of official statistics must adapt to new trends, use new tools, develop the skills of employees, but also improve the statistical literacy of users, data makers, and improve and simplify the methods of dissemination to make the data more accessible and easier to download and interpret to the interested public. On the day 1.1.2021, the State Statistics Institute has 502 employees who had an average age of 48 years, with a maximum of 45% of employees in the category above 50 years of age who told us that in the next few years, the inevitable departures from the system to retirement are necessary, and in order to maintain the continuity of jobs, it is certainly necessary to strengthen human potentials. In relation to the estimated number of employees, 25% of fewer civil servants and deputies were employed than predicted by systematicisation, with the number of employees continuously falling over the last 10 years. The importance of human potential is also highlighted in the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics for the period 2021, level of expertise and availability, the availability of human potentials is a key element affecting the quality of official statistics. It is therefore necessary to make efforts in the future to continuously increase the number and quality of experts, since this is a matter of really specific knowledge and skills, and it is certainly necessary both internal workshops and training, participation in European courses and all available types of education that will continue to improve the quality of human potential. I will also look back at other stakeholders and statistical data makers whose data is used by official statistics holders, but they also use data from the State Statistics Institute for their reports, such as. HZZ. It keeps records of registered unemployed persons newly registered, employed, registered job-free employment and monthly data processing shall produce standardised reports for national, regional and local levels published through several publications and, as well as through network access to statistical data enabling users to search and create reports independently in accordance with the needs. All of this, this is just one example of bodies that do not include as part of official statistics and participate in the creation of statistical data, so I believe that these bodies should also invest in personnel, train them and provide them with modern information communication solutions. Here is also in the introduction part of the Secretary of State we heard that in the State Statistics Office open job tenders, however the interest is small and certainly is, it will be necessary to improve working conditions and those material conditions and the possibility of progress in the system as expected from a more modern system because otherwise we will not be able to get quality personnel to perform these really specific jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98530	One replica, the esteemed representative Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98531	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you have highlighted both the importance of human potential and this area. The proposal for a 2021 to 2030 strategy on which we have recently discussed puts emphasis on the need for investment in human potentials that must quickly adopt new knowledge and skills, the need to create quality, reliable and with other countries of harmonised statistical reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98532	Thank you, fellow Chichak. Yes, you have well mentioned the importance of human potential is highlighted by the proposal to develop the official strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which we have recently discussed and the analysis of the situation, the picture from this strategy has seen the risk of lack of appropriate quality experts who can respond to global challenges that are further highlighted by EU accession and the need for comparability with the other members in terms of statistical reports. And indeed, in these demanding times of globalisation and digitisation, a quality response to the challenges can only give an educated and quality fit and that is what we have to work on, both in statistics and in all areas of society, and it is certainly necessary to motivate employees what I have already said to better salaries and better working conditions, the possibility of progress, everything that makes people less and less want to do in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98533	Next is the debate of the respected representative of Jurassic Bourcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98534	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It would certainly be good if we had discussed this topic within the legal deadlines, but we are aware that the past two years have not been quite the usual, that there have been a lot of unforeseen things that can be said freely have priority over these reports on the implementation of the annual statistical implementation plan for 2020. Just like planning for 2021 and 2022. Well, just at a point before this, we had a debate on changes to the VAT Act where the Government of the Republic of Croatia lowers VAT in various sectors for reasons of facilitating and reducing the price impact on our citizens. And the responsible government put this on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and we as responsible politicians have also accepted that this is still a slightly higher priority than the State Statistics Institute Report. Also, for the past two years, we have had several such crisis moments since the set of the Law to restore the affected areas, as well as various anti- epidemi measures that we have brought here in this House of Commons, and therefore it is no wonder that it may have been too late with this debate, and on the other hand we heard from the Secretary of State that the Implementation Report as well as the annual implementation plans was adopted by both the Government and the Statistical Council at the time and from our colleague Grodana Peric we heard that they were processed by their parent Committee on Finance and the State Budget also within the legal deadlines. And so we also heard what was most important, that all the results of official statistics were permanently available to all users whether they adopted in time here or not. Therefore, the purpose of official statistics is to produce and disseminate statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics, and official statistics are provided on an impartial basis by the state, economy and the public with reliable statistics on the economic, demographic, social, health and environmental status, activities or events that can be measured by statistical methods, and to ensure that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production and dissemination of official statistics are met. Official statistics are based on the principles of relevance, impartiality, reliability, transparency, timeliness, professional independence, rationality, consistency of the public, statistical confidentiality, use of individual data for the sole statistical purposes of public responsibility. In addition to the law of certain holders of official statistics, these are the State Statistics Institute as a central body, and the Croatian National Bank. The second authorised bodies of official statistics are defined by the programme and the following official statistics holders have been established for the period 2021 to 2027. It is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and the Croatian Institute of Public Health. These institutions constitute the national system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, the annual implementation plan prescribes the implementation of three types of statistical activities. The first are statistics based on direct data collection, the second are statistical surveys from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and the third are development activities, lists and other major, statistical research. As we heard in the reports themselves, the State Statistics Institute plans to carry out a total of 225 statistical activities in 2020 and all are successfully implemented. In addition, the Annual Implementation Plan for 2021 planned to implement a total of 293 statistical activities, and the 2022 planned implementation of a total of 288 statistical activities. In line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system continuously develops and implements new statistical activities. The State Statistics Institute as the main holder and coordinator of the Croatian Statistical System, starting with the principle of financial rationality and applying modern statistical methods in the planning and implementation of the Statistical Activity Programme and the annual implementation plans, shall take into account the limits related to the availability of financial resources provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that they were implemented in 2020 within the budget-planned framework, and this is how it was planned in 2021 with a slightly higher amount due to the census and in 2022 it was planned as at 2020 level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98535	Replica, respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98536	Thank you. Dear colleague Brkan, at the beginning of the club exposure, we heard from a colleague that the reports were almost and unnecessary, that it was a waste of money, that no one was using it. And I'm like someone who's worked in statistics for years who can't agree with that, because I'm aware of the importance of statistical data and analysis. Statistical data are used for their own purposes by different users from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government, county, research institutions, the economy and the general public. Many of our cities and municipalities and institutions for application for example projects use statistics from various sources without which each written project would be incomplete and incomparable with other categories and other users. What is your experience with the experience of working in local self-government regarding the use of statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98537	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. Every serious state keeps statistics, so remember only from the Roman Empire and the census since it's been run, it's one example, and the serious states run significant and quality statistics as the Republic of Croatia does. To say that such statistics are unnecessary is crazy, and on the other hand we can also be aware that serious and quality statistics are something and cost, as are all others, and if they are well planned and spent in accordance with the plan and if on this basis we get good official statistics they will use everyone, JLS of course are important, of course it's important in various segments that I don't list all the statistics we use, but to say that it's unnecessary and that it's too expensive it's the same as saying that the state is unnecessary and too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98538	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98539	Thank you, Vice President. Today we discussed the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities in 2020, the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2021. And in 2022. It is official statistics of the Republic of Croatia which is important in both national and international contexts because it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic situation with other countries. Given EU membership, it is important to ensure that statistics are comparable to data from other countries. Statistics need to be answered on a number of issues from which we see in some ways whether, as a society, as a country, we are moving in a good direction, what our economy, living conditions, employment and a lot of other characteristics whose analysis should be the basis for making decisions in which we should go. Official statistics are developed, produced and adjusted on the basis of basic statistical principles, which are professional independence, impartiality, objectivity, reliability, statistical confidentiality and cost-effectiveness. According to the Official Statistics Act, official statistics are carried out by the State Statistics Institute as a central body, CNB and other bodies designated by the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, namely the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, HZZZ, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. Of the total 274 statistical surveys in 2020 The National Statistics Institute planned and successfully conducted 225 statistical activities, the other bodies also carried out planned statistical activities. The report is structured according to data groups in 6 areas, demographic and social statistics, macroeconomic statistics, business statistics, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, statistics for several areas, and support for the statistical output. All planned research has been carried out in all areas. The funds for the implementation of statistical activities shall be provided in the national budget for 2020. It amounted to 137 million kuna, an increase of 45% compared to the previous year. The increase was due to the implementation of the list of agriculture and preparatory activities for the census, households and apartments. During 2020 activities were carried out aimed at popularising official statistics, bringing statistics closer to users and promoting statistical literacy. Some of the activities are also a statistical competition for high school students as a national phase of the European competition with 1475 participants, activities by publication on social networks, marking significant dates, promotional campaigns on social networks, the development of new networks and the like. Annual implementation plan for 2021. The implementation of 293 statistical activities has been planned, of which the State Statistics Office will conduct 245 and the other holders of official statistics. Annual implementation plan for 2022. The implementation of 288 statistical activities is planned, of which the State Statistics Institute will implement 240 and other official statistics holders. Because of the pandemic, some of the research took place in 2020. have faced difficulties, e.g. a labour poll, but personal contact with households successfully replaced by telephone polling. The population test list for 2021 was also delayed. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support that report and the proposals for the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2021 and 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u98540	Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on state aid for 2020. Good night, everybody. The session was interrupted in 19.58 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83009	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83010	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. I will begin with a paraphrasing of Peter Preradovic, a permanent in this country only affair, which I will tell you about in these five minutes about the appointment of a new board of directors for science. Namely, in the atmosphere of numerous affairs... which continue to dominate the Croatian public space, the almost undetected appointment of the new Governing Board of Croatian Science, the central national body for the financing of science and scientific research in the Republic of Croatia remains. It is particularly interesting to see who was appointed president of the board of directors of the mentioned trusts. Mr. Nikola Ruzynski. I know it doesn't tell you much, but even though it's been 10 years since Nikola Ružinski's last public service, she's a person who's been deeply cut down in recent Croatian history. This president of the roof house for the financing of science, the Croatian public is not familiar with scientific or professional achievements but unfortunately with numerous affairs. Let's take it in a row. The first political phase was at the Ministry of Science and Technology where it was from 1993 to '95. He was an assistant, and then until 2000, the Deputy Minister. Although his name was never legally proven in connection with the affair of the installation of telephone stations by numerous institutions in Croatia, as well as the scandalous appointment by the ministry of the authorised person who was in an eclatant conflict of interest and carried out such procurement procedure, public procurement. Without a valid court epilogue, it has saved today's chairman of the Board of Directors from any responsibility. From 2005 to 2012 Nikola Ruzhinski was the secretary of state in charge of environmental protection. From that time on, it's a series of affairs. Of the many at least suspicious recoverys of public money, the strategically guilty and unsuccessful waste management centres, a series of irregularities associated with the Environmental Protection Fund and entirely unusual combinations with once known and perspective, and today the failed Brodar Institute. There are many lines written about this, so it would be easy for an impartial observer to conclude that Mr. Ruzhinski should actually be happy that he remained quite uncircumcised without serious investigations, let alone arrests or detentions. However, his close associate, Minister Fuchs, appointed him to be the chairman of the National Science Foundation Management Board. How did this happen in the first place? Are we going to watch our prime minister again in a few months and listen again to the story of his very sophisticated and sensitive radar, which seems to have missed another bird through his anti-corruption airspace. Of course, it is not nice or pleasant to talk about someone like this, but if we look at the scientific opus Professor. It's easy to see that it's a modest scientific career. His last published work was in 2011. However, we must recognize the person who was ready in 77 years of life to take the lead in the central national institution in charge of the financing of competitive science, such a person could and should be able to handle it without a problem. Let's say we put our hand on the heart, this is another insult to anyone who works, thinks and acts in Croatia, especially in science and higher education. If in this way we choose the leaders to finance healthy and competitive science what we can expect in other areas. How does this light make it look like a diaspora call to return to Croatia? At least it's funny, at least transparent. Knowledge, competence, transparency and perspective are still very far from today's Croatia. And I'm going to end up as I started, slightly changed words from Peter Preradovic. Constant in this country is just an affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83068	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83069	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the war in Ukraine has put many problems aside yesterday and they are no longer so much at the heart of the Croatian and world public, but they remain. Especially in our immediate environment, even more dangerous they may become even more serious since this crisis in Ukraine can be easily spilled over to our neighbouring countries where there are very important political actors of extremely important interest of the Russian Federation. The biggest problem lies in BiH. Namely, Croats there are a constituent people and BiH must be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, we have the Republika Srpska, which has been talking about potential secession for years, on the other hand, we have a prodigal unitary policy that advocates so-called. civil BiH primarily under Bosniak patronage. The Croats, although under the Dayton Agreement, are a constituent people, have lost numerous elements of nationality and are turning into a national minority. The biggest problem is currently the electoral law where Croatia's second term in BiH is notorious Zeljko Komsic. Zeljko Komsic, who has repeatedly said that he is a Bosnian patriot, a Catholic who won primarily the votes of Bosniaks, who has never visited municipalities with the majority Croatian population in BiH because he is simply not welcome there, who said two days ago that the Croat is obviously in line with existing laws, but which definitely does not represent the politics of Croats in BiH. There is even an anecdote and some stories around BiH that the only thing Zeljko Komsic has in him is a bullet from the HVO. Whether it is true or not, it is true, but it is true that Zeljko Komsic is the winner of the "golden lily" for all, his contribution within the BiH Army, but it is also true that he took the picture in '93. the year in Kresevo in the BiH Army uniform, although it is the majority Croatian place where the Croatian defence council existed. And this same Zeljko Komsic today, according to the Dayton Agreement, represents Croats in BiH. And his first interview after his second election as a Croatian member of the presidency was where he said he would sue Croatia's International Court for violations of law and would stop the construction of the Pelje Bridge. The same one, Zeljko Komsic, said on several occasions that Croatia has committed an open aggression against the Republic of BiH. However, his most recent statement took place 2 days ago when, through a video link, he reported to the European Parliament where he said the following. To accuse Croatia and Serbia of treating BiH as Russia against Ukraine. The neighbouring countries are under cover of concern for their constituent peoples openly meddling in internal affairs in BiH. If that looks like Doneck and Lugansk to you, then you're right. The only difference is that neighbouring countries aren't trying to do it the armed way. This is what we say at the time of Russia's open aggression on Ukraine and the biggest security threat for the European continent is scandalous, even more regrettable that no one from Croatian diplomacy has responded to this. So I will remind Zeljko Komsic once again that he is exactly the Croatian people in BiH in '92. the year when the referendum allowed BiH to be independent. That's right, the Croatian army accused of aggression and HVO in '94. and '95. Freed a large part of BiH and created a precondition for peace in BiH and created a precondition for a single BiH, that Croatia is just the signator of the peace Dayton Agreement, and that according to the agreement and under the Washington agreement, the Federation of BiH should be in confederation with Croatia. But it's sad that today the Croats are like this. And therefore, Croatia must seek a different reconstruction of BiH unless the election law is amended, and this is the only creation of a third entity for Croats within BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83212	On behalf of the Centre and GLAS's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83213	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. News of which in the past few weeks has been suffering the whole world, news of the war in Ukraine about the aggression carried out by Russia and all the problems caused by the problems that we as a state will have to face, the small state may not be the happiest moment to talk about how dysfunctional and still unfinished Croatia is, as well as constitutionally and legally unregulated state, how much trouble it is that we still have two different foreign policies today, and it seems two different parallel chains of command over the military. The problems were that we should have solved long ago, but somehow in our political life it seemed that the debate on the necessary changes to the Constitution was never welcome behind it there was never a good time and a good timing and now we are where we are. The fact that we do not know who is managing the state at this point, especially in some key issues, is very important at this time of war, is that we simply need to consider how badly this affects the safety of all our citizens and also the poor position of the Republic of Croatia in international relations. In order not to see what we unfortunately see in our media about bickering between the two great political hills escalated into internal instability, I believe that HS must take over the role that belongs to it under the Constitution and solve those dilemmas and doubts, the treasuries we now see in the relationship between the president of the state and the Prime Minister. HS is the one who should direct the state in making key strategic and political decisions, and one of them is how to stabilise price growth and ensure energy and thus economic stability and security at these times when it is clear that the situation in Ukraine and Russia's behaviour has a significant impact on the growth and savagery of oil and oil prices on the world market. In the case of a Member The Energy Act is prescribed by clear authority and the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in exceptional circumstances, these war circumstances are certainly a decision to ban oil exports from the Republic of Croatia. This is the moment when all of us together have to take first of all care about the protection of our own interests, the fact is that Croatia has its own oil pipeline, has its own refinery, has its own refinery which the strategic and ownership partner in INA in some way abuses, deliberately brings it into a dysfunctional state, deliberately shutting down the processing in order to please its refineries in Slovakia and Hungary. The question can only be raised here, not so much as whether the government has the authority and legitimacy to make such a decision, have long matured the conditions for such a decision to be made, however, the question of how autonomous and free the government is in making such a decision, and how many interests of Croatia have been sold long ago. A few years ago, a memorandum of understanding was signed between Resolute Minister Tomislav Ćorić between the JANF Administration, who was then represented by Dragan Kovacevic and the INA Administration, including Mr. Dalic, on the basis that the last two years of oil produced in Croatia is being exported to Hungary and further processed there, and our oil products are far, far more expensive than they would have been if we were to produce approximately 25% of the production capacity for our market ourselves. These elements suggest that Croatia is unable to think about its strategic needs and I will indeed initiate one decision, one conclusion which will require the government to make a decision on the ban on exporting our oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83355	The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST's representative, Nikola Grmoy, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83356	After these important discussions, therefore concerning our economic prosperity as well as our identity. So, that's definitely what I say I'll focus on, so Banovina. The bank that we all know was affected by great Serbian aggression but also by Banovina, which unfortunately was affected by an earthquake, and then I would say forgotten. Because the reconstruction is late, the restoration isn't happening. Our people there still live in containers, and what is particularly worrying is the relationship and the state and local authorities towards entrepreneurs. We all know, in fact, that Petrinja has increased the cut, which is scandalous. So, the new HDZ mayor did this in a city hit by an earthquake, which should do everything to keep it if possible, of course it is now much harder to attract an entrepreneur in this unrenewed Petrinja. And what's even more scandalous is that the Ministry of Regional Development there cancelled the tender where 124 applications were made by entrepreneurs worth 100 million kuna, and 15 million and 700 000 kuna were distributed, respectively, and the fastest finger per model. And part of the entrepreneurs went through that contest and now suddenly as a contest was cancelled because there were much more applications than the money being shared. Well, then you should've thought about it before. People invested in the competition, in the project documentation, some cost tens of thousands of kuna, and now nothing. The contest is cancelled and the money is not split, and in fact it was all over, the contest was over. This can only be corrected if this is the reason, so as they claim from the Ministry of Regional Development that there have been many more applications, worth 100 million kuna, that now the ministry is raising the budget of that tender from 15 million and 700 000 kuna to 100 million kuna and that everyone who has applied, and that is 124 applicants get that money for their jobs that they intend to either run or upgrade. This will make it seem that ruling for some reason does purposely damage to petrinian entrepreneurs who, with their own good will, still remain to work and live in Petrinja. From this point on, I strongly protest against this kind of behaviour and call on the Minister and the Ministry of Regional Development to correct this major failure and increase this amount that will be allocated in some new competition. And finally, so it doesn't turn out that I'm just criticising the Croatian Democratic Community and HDZ what I heard from Sisak-Moslavina County yesterday amazed me. The city power of the town of Sisak has banned schools, so it is the mayoral office of SDP Kristina Ikić Baniček to collect funds for the humanitarian actions of Caritas at this time of use in primary schools. All humanitarian actions are ordered to be carried out exclusively through the town's Red Cross organization, in agreement with the town of Sisak. This is scandalous in one democratic country, so to ban it, the credentials carried out an action with Caritas to ban it and the action was halted. Parents, although it was due to last until Friday, were informed parents that the director, by the classmates, that the action of Caritas is being suspended, so this is scandalous. Here I am asking my colleagues from the SDP to condemn such behaviour and to do something to stop this behavior in the city of Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83441	Here is an esteemed colleague and colleagues for exactly 1 hour and we are starting to make a statement on behalf of MPs and independent representatives, and the first representative of the SDP Club will speak for the respected representative Andreja Maric on behalf of the SDP. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83442	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in March, we mark 2 important dates aimed at raising awareness of the population's problems of obesity. On 4 March, World Fat Day was marked with this year's motto "we all need to get involved", and on 16 March we mark the Croatian Day of Enlightenment of Fatness. So, it was yesterday announced by the Croatian Parliament in 2017. The decision to declare states that special attention should be paid to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of obesity, a disease that has become one of today's biggest public health problems. The purpose of the Croatian Day of Fat Consciousness is to highlight the causes and consequences of obesity as well as the importance of prevention of obesity, how to improve health, how to promote proper nutrition and physical activity, all in order to reduce the number of diseases that are closely associated with excessive body weight or thickness. According to the 2022 World Atlas, which was issued on World Fat Day this year, almost a million people are expected to live in Croatia by 2030. So almost every three women and every three men. These findings stress that Croatia's failures will meet the World Health Organization's goal of stopping the increase in thickness by 2025 and retaining the 2010 level. What's the current situation? According to the latest Eurostat survey, Croats are the whitest people in Europe. More than 70% of men in our country have a body mass index equal to or greater than 25 kilograms per square metre, and in women 60% have such or similar body mass index and 65% of adults are threatening. Right behind Croatia is Malta with slightly smaller percentages. The opposite of us is Denmark. Well, here we are tomorrow at the Health Committee, visiting the biggest Danish expert on thickness, Professor. Arne Astrup with the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Denmark to the Republic of Croatia and I believe that we will establish good cooperation and exchange of experiences in the field of public health policies, especially in the field of combating obesity. All of these projections for the future represent a serious incentive to stop the misunderstood and the stigmatization of the thickness. They also call for a system of high investment in prevention and treatment of obesity that will prevent the realization of these projections that I have cited. In the Republic of Croatia this month, a working group on draft proposals for the Action Plan for the Prevention of Thickness began to work. This working group includes experts and Croatian scientists who deal with different aspects of prevention of treatment of obesity under the direction of Prof. Sanja Musić Milanović, who at the beginning of the working group, pointed out that obesity is an important health problem, not an aesthetic problem, and that as a society, we should actually create assumptions for early detection, prevention and treatment of obesity, bearing in mind the socioeconomic background of the formation of thickness, expansion and quantification of thickness and the need for multi-sectoral action. The thickness is associated with a number of diseases. Diabetes, increased blood pressure, increased fat in the blood that then leads to other problems associated with the cardiovascular system, so heart attack, stroke, sexual dysfunction, infertility, psychological, emotional problems, complications during anaesthesia and surgery, chronic obstructive lung disease, various malignancies, skin changes, moving systems, etc. One of the important goals that the Health Ministry, the entire government, the media, industry, all of us, as a profession, or the whole of society, would have to focus more strength and attention is health prevention. Programmes, campaigns and other measures implemented by public health institutions and other institutions aim to promote healthy, or prevent unhealthy life habits and reduce the occurrence of chronic non-infectious diseases. However, full success requires a comprehensive and coordinated action at national level, but of course with the contribution of each individual or all of our citizens. On the occasion of the celebration of the Croatian Day of Fat Consciousness, the World Day of Fatty, the World Day of Sugar Disease, and so will be the occasion of the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease which we recently voted here in the Croatian Assembly, Patronising Sisters, Doctors of Family Medicine, Medical Doctors, Doctors of the Institute of Public Health, Nurses, Nutritionists organize for interested citizens of public health actions and activities where blood pressure, sugar values, body mass index, etc., and all to make sure that our citizens are aware that they need to take care of the prevention of their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83517	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andro Krstulovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today 55 years ago, it was published in the form of the declaration of the title and position of the Croatian literary language. Croatian linguists Miroslav Brandt, Dalibor Brozović, Radoslav Katičić, Tomislav Ladan, Slavko Mihalić, Slavko Pavisic and Vlatko Pavletić, all among the members of Matica hrvatska. It is necessary to repeat their names and remember their courageous step-up that has thundered Croatian silence in times of communist rule. The Communist authorities were amazed to borrow the declaration, and their composers and numerous signatories were persecuted and punished. The declaration also announced the Croatian Spring, which was also brutally attacked by communist authorities, and many Croatian patriots and intellectuals ended up in multi-annual prisons just because they wanted to speak their mother tongue and seek freedom for the Croatian people. I would like to remind you that in the old assembly several tens of meters from here, our Reverend Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski spoke in Croatian for the first time in the assembly in May 2, 1843, and said that cherry sweetness and soap had spoken, power and garbage to his native mother tongue. Then, on October 23, 1847, he gave his historic speech and called for the introduction of Croatian language into schools and offices that they had decided in the assembly that day. I spoke of all of this five years ago here at this pay phone when I asked for a council to be re-formed for the Croatian standard language standard standard standard language that they had suspended twice without much discussion and explanation. On the road in 2000, and the second time in 2012 by the decision of Minister Željko Jovanovic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs are required to re-establish a council for the Croatian standard language norm, which will be composed of linguisticists, representatives of relevant institutions, to continue to worry about the preservation and development of our language. Will this so much needed council be supported by a special law on Croatian language for which I hold that we should have it should leave us to debate. But for the debate there can be no survival in the Croatian language, its care, development and modernisation. Our young generations today read and understand Marulic's Judith in... Croatian complex only adapted to modern Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our language is clearly changing, and in this transformation we must be careful and aware that our children and young people are more exposed to a mixture of English and Croatian than to the standard Croatian language. In doing so, there is no need to forget the problem of the rapid loss of our local speech that young people leave behind and almost no longer understand. The Croatian language is our most important identity mark that we must preserve on behalf of our ancestors and for our descendants. It is not easy to say that Croatia is among 24 recognised languages in the EU and stops at that. The Croatian language strikes again from Serbia, coming down for part of our heritage. This was answered by our authorities and institutions with notes and communications, and their attacks were a little quiet, but unfortunately they won't stop at that. Five years ago there were also people from the public and the media who signed a statement about a language in the Balkans that we can call our own name if we want to. But there's no difference there, either. It is only one step towards the reintroduction of the Serbian-Croatian and the recurrence of the New Sad agreement, which was opposed by our linguists. Here it is spoken in Croatian native language as Kukuljevic Sakcinski spoke. In all its forms from the languages of Bunjevac, Srijemac and Slavons, via Međimurac and Zagorac, central Bosnia, beautiful countries of Istria, Bodula and Dalmatians, Herzegovac to Kotoran. And as Antun Gustav Matoš said today we mark the anniversary of death. Croatian language is a product of the relationship of Croatians to Croatia, according to nature, towards the field, mountain, forest and air. Only our beautiful homeland could create the beauty of our beautiful language, the wonders of our words, beautiful like our islands, beautiful gardens, sea swimming. Let's watch the Croatian! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83612	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Emil Daus, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-17-0.u83613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Pula County Chamber and employers from the graphics and audiovisual technologies sector intend to re-launch interests in this area of graphics and audiovisual technologies. Also, every 10 years, a third grade school with a solution for the implementation of individual programmes in the sector has opened a classroom and educated students for the professions of graphic engineering, graphic preparation technician and graphic printing technician. The HGK addressed the resolution ministry to obtain approval for the opening of the classroom, but there is still no response. In fact, it is a class department that would not be constant, every year, but, if necessary, in cooperation with the graphic school in Zagreb, they would enroll every 5 years 24 students because the practice showed that there is no need every year, but this period every 5 years would meet the needs of the market. In financial terms, it's not some significant amount, at least it shouldn't be. It's about 40 hours of direct work by the professor. Given that 20 hours of direct work by teachers is in principle full-time, it turns out that two jobs are needed to meet the needs of the market. So we have a situation other than the problems we have been talking about for many years about vocational education and the lack of labour, above all in the field of hospitality and tourism, today also in the machinery sector, shipbuilding and metallurgy, electrical engineering, computing, Istria today, its problems due to systematic education and the way in which the Ministry of Science and Education functions to other sectors as well as to the sector of graphic and audiovisual technology. Istria, its educational institutions as well as employers in the Istrian county need to develop all sectors of education programmes, with their development, with the growth of the number of children Istria necessarily needs new programmes. The approval of educational programmes in this case in the sector of graphic and audiovisual technology where there is a great interest in employers who act and make huge revenues while paying taxes, of course, needs the help of a relevant ministry or state. This is why I use the opportunity in this free speech to call for help from our employers and the HGK and through educational institutions to open a programme in the sector of graphic, audiovisual technologies that contribute to the development of the environment and to reduce labour deficits. It is a small funding for investments that cannot and must not be discussed but is actually an investment for a better future of the environment, a better and safer future for the entire Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, we will be threatened with the closure of another economically growing sector, and we all hope that this country is not an interest or a goal. Thank you very much.
