ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101359	We are done with the presentation of the position so now we move on to those points of the agenda we announced today, the first is: - The final proposal of the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, second reading, P.Z. No 251 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate has been carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now like to present, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land, but before that, we have a request for a break, a colleague named Mrak Taritas reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101360	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please rest on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS for 2 minutes. So in our second reading, the Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land came relatively quickly. When a law like this comes up, the key question is what the goal is, is the goal of really getting into the cohesion of agricultural land because from the explanation we had, it was obvious that the former law did not bring certain results. And now that we've got this material it's a surprise team over. That ease by which the applicant rejected any objection that was even least possible by opposition representatives not only appalles the opposition. It's startling because we have to ask ourselves a really crucial question, is the aim of this law to really go with the cost of agricultural land or is the aim of this law that we have the Agricultural Land Act, so it doesn't matter there in 5, 10 years someone else will be involved in the business of gambling. So, of those most innocent remarks that were, so I'm not going to evaluate them about, to compare, to do something with what you need to know that the law in the first reading caused debate. The debate was constructive, the debate wasn't ours and yours, the debate was in order, and in terms of we really have a problem, there's no cohesion of agricultural land, the law that's on the basis of it hasn't been made a single commission and let's make a law that would make it possible. Unfortunately, though, the goal of having a Law on COMMASSATION, which would really not be possible. My mom has a saying that I told you, and now I'm telling you, in five or ten years, someone else is going to be working again. The Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Lands as COMMUNICATIONS BASED BY THIS [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There will be no law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101361	Thank you very much. The break is approved. Second request from counterpart Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101362	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for 10 minutes in order to actually consider the provisions of this law and point to the very context of the adoption of this law. It is absolutely certain that in all the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture and political games in the last 7 years, the victim is a Croatian farmer. Indeed, according to the applicable Law on Cooperation adopted in 2015, we do not have a single start of the compromise procedure. During 2016 we had completed pilot projects in five counties on which hundreds of hours of work, professional work was invested. The funding of these procedures has been promised through European funds and since then it has all cared because the ministry has become entangled in implementation, has complicated their own actions and deceived Croatian farmers into five counties, which is Brodo-Posaviska, Virovitica-Podravska, Ličko-senjska, Međimurska and Istria County. It was a political decision, as well as a decision not to finance a single process of membership in the Rural Development Programme from 2014 to 2020. We now have an ex-post mind, and yet the ministry has found that there is no development of agriculture without a development strategy in which there is also a membership. On a public call for interest issued by the ministry at the end of last year, 23 local self-government units came forward, and today we heard on the Agriculture Committee that it was a sort of poll, and that a public call only follows through which units of local self-government will have to register independently of these applications. The interest may be more than 46600 ha as much as has been reported in this statement of interest, and the question is how will the ministry make the choice. Today we have a great announcement of the commission and the statement of interest carried out, so we hope that history will not happen again and that Croatian farmers will not be replayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101363	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club, and let's point to a few of the things we pointed to in fact at the first reading. It is not at all a questionable good intention of the ministry, and of course we are in favour of going into a commercial, or rounding up the land in various ways, and also through cohesion because it is the only way we can do it or it is one of the ways to make agriculture of Croatia more effective. But here, too, for good reason, we have made some suggestions, several remarks. Unfortunately, they weren't adopted. I would once again point out the specificity of the Republic of Croatia, its diversity. Not every end is the same, not the same plain-based Slavonic Croatia with the coast, Istria, Dalmatia, islands. We have major problems of cadastar, grant, property-legal, and it is a proposed process for only the Law on the Compassion of Agricultural Land to solve these problems. There are no preconditions made, the preconditions are certainly related to the Law on Heritage and the Law on Land Books and Double Taxation and a lot of other things. Also what I also tried to point out during the first reading is that it will be very difficult regardless of the court's experts and what's going on, trying really legally to solve it in one way. It will be very difficult to estimate land in coastal Croatia, in Istria where every few hundred meters away are very different land prices, let alone when it is a kilometer away because it depends so much on the price of wild, price of real estate or land and there will be a very big problem to reconcile the owners themselves. I know that in these first ones, I don't know a dozen, 20comcommissioning projects aren't an area in Istria, but we are still working on a law that we must think about in the future. And here I wanted to draw attention, and later, of course, I'm going to talk about a few other details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101365	And this break has been approved. Is there anyone else? If not, then we will continue to work and now it is on behalf of the promoter, therefore the respected Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak, who will present the final draft of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101366	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected members and members of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament representative, the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Law on the COMMASSATION of Agricultural Land is in force and the application of the law in force has shown that there are obstacles that slow down agricultural land pollution, which is definitely affecting the efficiency of the use of agricultural land, given the fragmentation of land and the large number of small land particles. The new Law on the COMMUNATION of Agricultural Land is proposed in a practical way to achieve the objective and purpose of the agricultural land pooling based on what can be expected and progress in agricultural production. The main objective of the new law is to reduce administrative barriers, and to speed up the process of land accumulation, to place agricultural land into function, which is not functional or difficult to use due to the fragmentation of small areas, and all this affects the increase in productivity and the creation of added value and better and better quality use of agricultural land. This draft bill enables the placing into service of agricultural production of fragmented and abandoned agricultural land, which makes it difficult to access through optimisation of the forms and surfaces of agricultural land, i.e. by rounding it, and the construction of water structures for meliorations and other infrastructures. It is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a programme for the accumulation of agricultural land produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, which shall establish the implementation of agricultural land co-operation on the indicative surface of land for the intended period and in accordance with the planned financial resources. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the Ministry shall establish and manage the information system of co-operation and in electronic form in the framework of which there is also a register of communication. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the commission is being launched on the basis of an idea-based solution of the co-operation that will be developed by the local self-government unit, or the city of Zagreb when it is found that there are significant areas of agricultural land not used for agricultural production or poor exploitation, and more than 50% of that land is located in their area, which must be in line with the programme. It is also prescribed that the ministry will adopt a decision to develop a proposal for an idea-based solution of membership, i.e. to initiate a commission procedure if the local self-government unit has not decided to make a proposal for an idea-based solution of the commission for significant areas of agricultural land not used or not used, and that the ministry will take over the competence for the co-operation process which the local self-government unit has launched and does not implement. It is prescribed that the holders of the commission may be units of local self-government, the city of Zagreb or the Ministry of Agriculture. It is prescribed that the implementation of the comcommissionation process, appoints the commission as a collective body coordinating the regulation and ownership of real legal and other relations on land, works on the construction of waterways for melioration and other works, and prepares and develops proposals for acts brought by the holder of the commission. It is prescribed that the expert basis for the implementation of the co-composition is a co-composition project which determines the areas in which the co-communications, sources of financing, implementation deadlines, the list of land of the participants of the co-commissioning that has been introduced into the commercial cluster and others. The final proposal for a law has made the following changes. It is added that both the terms and conditions and the criteria and means of granting financial resources and allocation are prescribed in the comcommissionation programme. For members and alternate commissions of the Commission for Cooperation, a working experience in the profession of at least 5 years has also been added, only exceptionally can be appointed persons with less working experience if there is no person with a prescribed condition of at least 5 years. For acts approving the construction in the cohesion area, it was added that the prior consent of the holder of the commission was required. It is added that the criteria laid down in the Regulation on the procedure and the criteria for the design of the commercial project are prescribed in the area of determining the value of the objects and devices on the land for the commercialisation. The deadline of 60 days from the expiry of the deadline for the production and delivery of a proposal for a co-commissioning project is prescribed in which the holder of the commission is calling for a meeting of the participants to present a proposal for a commission. Following today's debate, we have a draft of the Final Proposal of the Law on COMMASSATION and Agricultural Land, which includes most of the objections and proposals received by the authorities of the State Administration as well as from discussions at the working bodies and meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so when it adopts amendments to the Legislative Committee which they have submitted, it means 3 amendments. Thank you. Nomotechnical nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101367	Let's go to the replicas now. First up, Comrade Mazhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101368	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here you have now and in this introduction pointed out that between the first reading and the final proposal of the law, there have also been adopted objections from certain parliamentary committees, not only to the Legislative Committee but also to the parent Committee on Agriculture, so here we welcome this part that both the motioner consulted and the parliamentary committees and went to advance the final draft of the law. Of course, we welcome everything the final bill provides for both administrative discharge related to and greater role of landowners, related to concrete deadlines and objections, but my question would be in the direction of establishing an information system of cohesion, given that it is something that will certainly contribute most to the whole process and transparency. What role could be the existing information system of the former Agricultural Land Agency and whether She can use it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101370	I thank you for your inquiry. So, the information system will install into its part and an important segment of the register of participants in the commission, and our initial idea that we will translate into realisation is that the existing e-rent, therefore the existing electronic platform is the basis for this information system. Of course, of the four regulations that are laid down under this law, one of them is now defining the information system related to the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101371	There's a fellow Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101372	Thank you, Your Honor. For now, only Mr. Secretary of State will we see in the future what we will call you soon. First of all, I speak to the legislators themselves, in Croatian, we have the word circumnavigation I think it would be much simpler and to understand the average Croatian citizen, so we all know what it is, but some may not know. Nothing is missing from the Croatian word circle. And one question for you that has been very interesting to the Croatian public over the past few days, the question is this. Are we really going to lose 10% or more of the total envelope for direct incentives due to the corrections following the European Commission's audit findings? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101373	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101374	I thank you for your question, so European audits as well as internal audits, as well as national audits, are certainly part of the procedures for the implementation of European funds, hence the European Agricultural Fund and the European Guarantee Fund, or the European Fisheries and Maritime Fund. The decision has therefore not been taken on the possible loss of these funds, and the Ministry of Agriculture or the implementing body in this case, the paying agency therefore removes all comments so far submitted by the audit and that is, at this point, all that we can manifest. So, the review has given its comments as well as so far, and we will respond teachingly to our legal or procedure that we have built to implement these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101375	Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101376	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State these days, the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers sent an open letter to the government asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give up the ban on agricultural land parcels, and to particles less than 1 hectares and 10,000 m2. The plot is a necessary step in solving property legal relations, so I believe we all agree, and I believe that this Final Proposal for a Law on the COMMUNATION of Agricultural Land is a good one, because it is exactly a solution to many property legal gaps. Have you seen this open letter and what do the agriculture ministry think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101377	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101378	I thank you for your inquiry. It is certainly important to adopt any legislative and sublegal act of communication with the public but also to communicate with the profession. That we are also in communication with the chamber that you stated about geodetic engineers, and in this work we also look at the Law on COMMASSATION but also about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land as well as the proposals of the entire profession that is related to this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101379	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101380	Thank you very much. I must first say that I came from Međimurje and 2016 we were supposed to be a pilot project where 5 municipalities were to participate, but obviously none of this happened, so our employees, or citizens, were played. Now we hope that it will be as indicated at least according to what I have the data, that the Belica municipality and the Novo Selo Rok Catastrian municipality will participate within the town of Čakovec, so please confirm or disprove it for me. And the next thing I know, it's unclear how you're actually going to motivate landowners who don't process land and who aren't really interested in the process of compromise at all or are not informed at all, that's the first thing and the second thing I see is that you've given the interpretation that you're going to try to make public calls that, units that aren't chosen in some way, co-finance how you're going to try and to what extent. Here are three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101381	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101382	I thank you for your inquiry. So the Belica municipality provided a proposal for an idea solution on the basis of our call for a statement of interest. In our survey, if so, they can call it a call for a statement of interest, he was precisely due to a reform measure under the National Resistance and Cooperation Programme, or related to the regulation of agricultural land. When we discuss a public call based on the funds granted through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, then this unit of local self-government will have the right to report as well as all other units of local self-government. So this public call has not in any way disabled and discredited other units of local self-government to report through a public call after a programme of co-operation has been adopted at government level and after this programme of co-operation has been defined Therefore, not only the area but also the financial resources to be targeted. [[Intruder: Thank you, finish the sentence freely.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101383	Comrade Cosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101384	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State according to data from the State Office for Statistics in the area of Brod-Posavina County is 103.315 hectares of processed surfaces, however, in the ARCOD means that 64,874,4 hectares are registered in the system of state support, so 38,440 hectares are not listed in the ARCOD that is 37,2% means one of the possible reasons is certainly one that you mentioned the same, meaning there is no legal basis or ownership on those particles and, of course, the use contracts and, of course, the areas that are less than one hectare. Surely this law will contribute to a good deal of this being resolved, but we also have this hilly part where maybe the commission, the commission is not necessary, but we should run small measurements where the state and municipalities and Croatian water and road would participate, to determine the right situation because there are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101385	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101386	I thank you for your question that, in good part of the county of ARCOD, the notified particles for the achievement of support in agriculture and fisheries do not fully coordinate with the total working surfaces in that county, i.e. by looking at the republic, in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the fact that in the ARCOD system we have been declared to support about 260,000 hectares of state land through the new availability programmes that we have approved at the level of over 350 units of local self-government has already been over 300,000 hectares in the direction that we have a good fund and state but also private ownership that is not in office. Of course, in addition to the commission which is part of the agricultural land arrangement in order to gain productivity or greater competitiveness of our farmer that we must think and beyond, and what you have stated is precisely this contribution not only in the area where it is possible to co-operate but also in other areas it is necessary that certain procedures to be carried out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101387	Hey, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101388	Thank you very much. With this law, you transfer everything to local self-government, where you have forgotten the county no matter what the human potential is. They have the capacity, everything on local self-government because you've been washing Pilate's hands since 2009, so in 2015, the law absolutely didn't achieve anything on this issue. However, I would just say that what we have in less and less fruit and vegetables production at present is much more relevant, so that it is time for you to make a reasonable decision that as much as possible, all the incentives that can be given for artificial fertilisers and thus allow the farmer and the farmer and the peasant to sow these particles and countries to sink and to gnaw properly because otherwise we won't be self-sufficient this year. Well, we made 50% less tomatoes, pomidors last year, or what you're going to call fruit, vegetables, so we're currently in bigger trouble than this. Laddering and washing Pilate's hand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101389	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101390	Thank you for your inquiry. The Ministry of Agriculture is preparing for spring sowing and, in this context, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approved an amount of €200 million, which it directs exactly into the inputs into agricultural production, and the largest item in that part is mineral fertiliser. Therefore, this amount, or programme, will allow for more than 80,000 farmers to support up to the first 20 hectares, which is the most socially endangered group of farmers in order to successfully overcome therefore the spring seed, which is planned according to our data, we are in communication with agricultural producers, or their associations, which are planned on the surfaces that were sown last year. In autumn we also have certain, certain increases at the level of grain production by 6%, so the autumn seed in 2021 was realized to 6% higher surfaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101391	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101392	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, many believe that the commission is a holy grail of agriculture, that it can improve the added value that is absolutely important in agricultural production and on the trail of what the distinguished representative Maric asked me to think that this is very, very important for the leaders of the local self-government units. So the process is actually just about to start now, so those who made the call in that preliminary kind of call okay, but that doesn't mean that other members of the local self-government unit can't now when the law enters the procedure and when the ministry prescribes that local self-government is the beginning of this whole story, I think it's very important and I don't think that most of the local self-government unit leaders might be well informed about it, so it's not bad maybe again or several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101394	I also thank you for asking. So, the commission is a reform measure within the NPOO and for it are allocated 313 million kuna funds for the total combined area that we plan to realise in the finality of 18,000 hectares. The initial public call was therefore a call for a statement of interest based on 23 units of local self-government in 11 counties and the documentation submitted will be adequate for them to apply for a public call when the government makes it possible and defines a comcommissioning programme. For all units of local self-government which have not registered under a public call for expression of interest, we urge them to do so in the context of a public call that will follow the adoption of a comcommissioning programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101395	Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101396	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. According to this final proposal of the laws of the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb, or the Ministry when prescribed by this law. Can we imagine the next scenario to say some smaller municipalities that have appeared here and in this ahead of this showing of interest that the ministry is helping to resolve and that the ministry is also reporting as a resolutionist and that it is rounding up the real surface. '23. It is possible to sell this if it is a private country or it may be possible for that country to go to a long-standing concession and yet it is said to be of interest to the small municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101397	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101398	I appreciate the question. Therefore, the commission is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and as a reform measure, so will all the procedures that will be related to the commission, which will include reserve and other relevant ministries, will be directed to the emergency procedure, or will be dealt with by emergency procedure, and thus will enable all competent ministries to have an emergency process of co-operation. With regard to the Commission itself, discharges will also be set in accordance with specific regulations defined at not only the Ministry of Agriculture but also the Ministry of Finance in order for the commission to have a discharge for the final participant of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101399	Comrade Dark Tarritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101400	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Therefore, the applicable law still in force has not produced a result and therefore decided to make a new law with the idea of really bringing the result was just an idea and to aim to be a commission. I asked you a few times, so now I'm going to do it again this time, so when it's done then a particular diagram is done, so some tables show up according to the applicable law, which is how it goes and what are the changes. I'm guessing you've done some kind of autograph as a ministry where you can see some months, some deadlines, some stuff. Your associate is on several occasions and in her first reading when the minister was here she showed that it exists and you have it. It was somehow my remark was that you put it into the reasoning of the law that we too saw what hodograms were under the applicable law or why these changes were going on. Why didn't you put that in the law? Why didn't you show us these two parallel hodograms? Let's see what the improvements are in this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101401	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101402	I thank you for your inquiry. During the debate on the first reading of this law, but also during the debate within the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Legislatives today but also during the first reading, we have explained how the procedure, i.e. the hodogram of the activities, is going to run and related to the process of compromise itself, it will, according to our estimates, cover a period of two and a half years from the date of the first documents to the final degree of cohesion or realization. That doesn't mean we're starting today and we're ending for the next two years. Simultaneously, the processes will last for the commission, with an estimate that the average commission will last for two-and-a-half years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101403	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101404	I thank the president. The Honorable Representative of the President. I would prefer it if it were the Minister of Resort in your place, namely, the law stipulates that the commission is carried out in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and that the process of compromise is an emergency procedure. By prescribing the urgency itself, you have achieved nothing, firstly in the law no deadlines have been set for any procedural action in the process itself, and secondly the model by which the commission is carried out in which a large scale is placed on a variety of committees to form at local level is further complicated, further slowing down, further making it difficult. These commissions which are some ad hoc bodies, drawn up in one way or another which have no basis in the previous experience cannot carry out procedures which are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest that you adopt amendments and a new model for the commission to be carried out by a professionalised, professional department at the level of the ministry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101405	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101406	I appreciate the question. So, unlike the current law, instead of a dozen commissions, we will form one commission that will make up seven members of the commission, two representatives of the unit of local self-government two representatives of the ministries, two, one representative from the area of the judiciary or the municipal court, also one representative of the State Geodesy Administration or one representative of the owner. So in that part of the experience that we have prescribed that in changes and additions, in changes to the first reading, first reading upgrade or first reading text is an experience of 5 years and if there is no adequate professional person with this experience in that area of the local self-government unit for a representative, or for a member to include someone below [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that experience. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101407	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101408	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State when we compare the necessary funds from 2016 that were intended for the commission, it was 12 thousand, 12 million kuna per year and 32 million euros through the rural development programme and when compared, for 7.5 thousand hectares, and now we have the assumption that for 18,000 hectares we have planned 313 million euros. How do you comment on this accumulation of the comcommissioning process, or which, why are such high costs if by this law you are, in fact, simplifying the overall process, reducing the number of implementing bodies, commissions and all that you say will reduce the overall and simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101409	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101410	Thank you, therefore, for the measure defined in the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 in this amount that you mentioned, so it was never in realisation and implemented for the reasons of certain difficulties in the current law because it could not be realised. Therefore, the implementation of this measure could not be realised. According to the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, therefore as a reform measure within this programme, as a program that defines 4 components, this amount defines an area of 18,000 hectares, and in this part we cannot compare the rural development programme in relation to the National Resistance, Recovery and Resilience Programme related to the financial allocation itself. As far as the costs are concerned, the users themselves are definitely this emergency procedure. the process with fewer acts and bodies cheaper for the end-user. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101411	Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101412	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, the commission is not something that is done every 30 years but should be one process that is done in continuity. Obviously the legal framework was not good, you found it yourself, you started to change and it was anyway something to support. Whether this law will be more effective will be seen further, but the fact is that the average price of hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is among the lowest in the EU. So my question is very simple and only one thing, I'm not going to ask you 3 as other colleagues. Will you extend the moratorium for sale of agricultural land to foreigners who expire next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101413	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101414	I thank you for your inquiry. As regards your inquiry, therefore, the moratorium that stands out next year in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land will be defined by the right of first reading and thus regulate the agricultural land market for both private and state agricultural land. So the right of the first act will be activated by the state and that is how we plan to define this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101415	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101416	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, the situation on the ground is very different from any region. Somewhere in some parts this land is agriculturalally really well aggregated, but unfortunately in some parts it is still very small particles. Local self-government units have also managed, i.e. very much, to manage agricultural land, and have been able to aggregate through their distribution programmes, to rent, to create technological units, and thus to aggregate land. Now it is possible for those who have not done so to implement it through this law. Unfortunately, though, many people often seem to be insinuating only by grouping. It's a lot more than that. It means defining both roads and draining, unclassified roads, etc., all that together, so I'd like you to explain a little more about what this really means to be a communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101417	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101418	I thank you for your inquiry. Yes, we have to distinguish the commission from the rounding, the rounding is essentially just an increase in the agricultural area while the commissioning of the procedure that imposes on the holder of the commission is essentially the Ministry of Agriculture as well as other ministries, a whole series of procedures in relation to the resolution of property legal relations or land arrangements, the construction of certain infrastructure facilities in the area, so the whole procedure that enters into several courts, in law, in agriculture and definitely in construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101419	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101420	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected directors such as Croatia are generally diverse as well as the possibilities for the formation of the constituency clusters themselves are different in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. I'm curious about that. can you explain to me how, after the adoption of this law, areas will be chosen for the commission, I specifically ask for the Split-Dalmatia County and its municipalities and cities. How and will we be able to participate as a county in these 18,000 hectares that are planned through the NPO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101421	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101422	I thank you for your inquiry. So in the context of a public call for expression of interest, I have already pointed out that there has been an interest by 23 JLS at 11 counties, which does not define that framework only for those 23 JLS on the surface of 46 thousand hectares, but after the adoption of the programme, the National Programme of Cooperation at the level of the government that defines the area, the frameworks and the financial framework itself for cohesion will be made possible through a public call and a public tender and other JLS to report and to implement the membership and to be chosen for the commission, and as someone in the replica pointed out earlier this is not a process that will be completed at the level of the reform measure, but it will be a continuous process and will be financed in the future from the national budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101423	Thank you. Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101424	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, since this bill prescribes the use of information technologies in the planning, implementation, monitoring and monitoring of the state of the co-massified land in a way that plans to introduce the information system of cohesion I am interested in whether the existing G Information System, for example, we use in Osijek and which we regularly update, are talking about the state of property from the territory of the city of Osijek, can be brought into line with this new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101425	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101426	I thank you for your inquiry. So as I have already pointed out, I think I responded to Agent Ivanovic, so our basic setting is that e-rent should be the basis for and the information system in the compromise and upgrade of the same will therefore be the basis for the information system and the registration of the participants in the commission. Of course we are open to the possibility of upgrading this system and other applications if possible networking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101427	Mr. Troscott. I'm asking the MPs to put on masks while that decision lasts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101428	Do I have a mask now or how?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101429	No, no, not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101430	Yeah, okay. Dear Secretary of State, my question is the following, so as far as the land is surrounded, so everything you've done in the last 30 years. It was made today in the Voice of Slavonia. Here's the cover here today, the drop in production, so almost all categories of agricultural products, that's it, that's the product of rounding the land in the last 30 years. And my question is next. So, obviously, if we're going to use Mr. Ivanovic's dictionary, it hasn't lasted two half-times, it's gone, where is it today? It is due today to represent the country's circularing strategy in Croatia. My question is only next, here it is, so in the last 15 years. Yugoslavia's existence is surrounded by 500 thousand football playgrounds in Slavonia and Baranja. Why can't we round up 500 thousand football fields in Croatia? Now, just answer me what's the problem, where's the metaphysics, what's so complicated about it? Those kids from Slavonski Brod from that high school would probably do it better than this administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101431	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101432	Thank you. If it's possible to realize the composition not on probably this surface, it's already complicated, so you don't need a double-commasted surface. It is possible to implement the cohesion and this reform measure through the law that we propose, through the procedure we have designed, we will definitely implement these 18 thousand hectares by 2026, but also create preconditions through the law, through this legislative measure for further continuing the land-related and financing through the state budget for which there will be definitely places in the future in the budgetary paragraphs of the Ministry of Agriculture. But to answer the first detail about therefore the decline in fruit and vegetable production. In the last year, it has been a good result of certain natural disasters related to the production of fruits and vegetables. in the open. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101433	Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, the statement of interest in the commission in Varazdin County is 3.5 thousand acres of 13 thousand particles, but from what I hear now, it will take another call, and once again, this was only preliminary to feel the need for it, and then after the law comes into force, and I guess the plan will then have to be reported again. I mean, it's very important that people don't think they've solved their problem now and that they're gonna have a piece of business with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101435	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101436	Thank you. The JLS which have applied for a public call for expression of interest shall have information and shall be made available to them that, after the adoption of the comcommissioning programme, they will have to re-apply, but the documentation prepared in the most part for this public call for expression of interest will therefore be adequate for what will be prescribed by the comcommissioning programme or the basis of the law we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101437	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101438	Dear Secretary of State, here's how the Croatian public gets a little idea of what we're even discussing, the average property, the agricultural property in the Republic has 5.5 hectares, maybe a little bit more or less okay. For comparisons worse than us are Bulgarians and they have 5.1 hectares, Slovenians 6.3, although the mountainous hill country, Austria 19 hectares, and Germany over 43 hectares is an average agricultural property, Canada if I'm not wrong for over 100 hectares of agricultural property. And when we know this then we see that Croatian agriculture can't be competitive and here I urge it to put this commission as your ministry's priorities because without the cost, the Croatian agricultural product simply can't be competitive, and it's obviously from the figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101439	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101440	I thank you for your appeal. Yes, and we have this view that one of the preconditions for competitive and more productive Croatian agriculture is surrounded and arranged agricultural land. The data indicate that at the level of the total agricultural area compared to the number of farmers the average area per agricultural holding is 6.7 hectares and according to... methodology 11 hectares. So we are still lagging behind the EU average, and this reform as well as other measures must be aimed at increasing and rounding up agricultural land, but what I have repeatedly pointed out also at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101441	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Do the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge to be represented by Mr. Petrov and then Mr. Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101442	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the ministry. Key two resources for Croatia's future, the future of the whole world is agricultural land and water. What is Croatia doing about it? First of all, we have 600,000 more than 600,000 hectares of agricultural land today in Croatia that is abandoned which is not used, we have a law that regulates it, a law on agricultural land that is completely inadequate, and so far has changed 28 times. Second, the rounding of land, i.e. a combination, which actually means more production of agricultural products on these land, is therefore almost as important as the distribution of agricultural land is not implemented at all. Despite the government's adoption 13 years ago of a plan for the commission, despite the fact that by 2020 the government had over 300 million kuna at its disposal. We warn that for a long time, even this law that has been passed today has not changed things, has not resolved how property relations will be resolved, has not defined the right responsibility but has transferred responsibility almost entirely to local self-government units etc., etc. Croatia will lose years again, Croatia will not be able to produce agricultural products even enough for itself. I'm curious to know what the meaning of lawmaking is when there's absolutely no responsibility for it, why the passing of a law that won't change anything? What exactly is the responsibility of those who pass such laws? What are the consequences? I said, denied, promised, forgotten, so I honestly think that in the resume of people who have passed such laws should stand not only a workplace but an effect, and the effect is not the number of laws passed, that's what the Agricultural Land Act tells you. The effects are the outcomes of agriculture itself, and I believe that then things would change significantly. Croatia should invest in agriculture, I guess today it is absolutely clear why it should be. When we look at today's geopolitical picture, Croatia needs to invest in agriculture, but not the way it is done today, in a way that shares money without any subsequent control and inspection, but by key I know you, you are good to me. Croatia should invest in agriculture, but not in a way that because you want to arrest additional people, you invent commissions, you invent protocols, you create the reason why these people need to exist, you cause an administration to stop that same agriculture. Priorities need to change, priority is not ruling, priority is not survival in power, survival and development of Croatia in this case is a particular agriculture. Today, we have a situation in Croatia that the average size of the plot in Croatia is 0.83 hectares, in Zagreb 0.57 hectares, in Dubrovnik-Neretva County 0.23 hectares. I'll tell you again from 2009, you've come up with a plan that needs to be arranged, nothing's been arranged. Since 2014-2020, you have had 300 million kunas available to carry out the commission, nothing has been done. For the last four, five years, you've done nothing but comment that the law is not good, and now that they've given you suggestions on how to change it still has no interest. I beg you, we will all pass, I only hope that Croatia will survive despite such incompetence, incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101443	Farmers would be happy to have the Minister of Agriculture here if he's talking about something law in the second reading, unfortunately here all morning there's no minister. Last time in the first reading was all day, we gave commendations, I don't know why she didn't come today or she realized that this was actually a pilician handwashing since 2009, when it was a plan and a program for composing, so it's the 2015 law. So far nothing has been done, everything has been transferred to local self-government, all as if there are no counties, let offices, they don't know how many employees they have so that people in local self-government are wondering if they have human capacity potentials at all are able to make anything. There was a trial of course being someone from the judiciary so that he would tell this whole story mainly in these areas where I came from in rural areas of the entire Republic of Croatia where these lands were not three, four centuries prescribed from the heir to the heir. However, I would just briefly say that at this point, the most important secretary of state is to send a message, even if the telephone minister is currently in full swing. We're currently seeing in Ukraine where the war is the most invested in doing so in free territory. So, artificial snooze, let the farmer and the peasant as cheap as possible. All the incentives you have, all the money you have at this point is the most important means food with food, water and energy. So we don't have any other options, but the gas has accumulated, artificial sneezing depends on it. As far as agricultural land is concerned, I am talking about the cost of, for example, a hectare of agricultural land in the Netherlands is 70,000 euros. We have 3,000 euros in Croatia, which means 20 times cheaper, and we soon run out of moratorium to sell agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. What Hungary is not allowed to foreigners, we Croats cannot go to Hungary, but Hungarians will be able to do in Croatia. Is that equality and what it is, the regulation and the EU directive. I gave the law, there are two years in the procedure of banning the sale of agricultural land as one of the key resources I see in this crisis, which means, which is agricultural land, and we're not talking about cohesion at this point where one percent of us have irrigated agricultural land. Out of a million-and-a-half acres of 700,000 ha, a million-and-a-half acres of 700,000 was processed, half unprocessed. Only one percent of the total is listed in the Republic of Croatia 14000 ha. So wake up! Now we've been talking here for the last 15 years the same things about the combination by switching and washing pilator hands, because the fact that without rich villages there is no rich state. That's what Stjepan Radić said from village to village. And now after Stjepan Radic, various systems have passed. We didn't do anything at all, but we were worse when the king of Belgrade ruled with us or I don't know where he came from, or when he was Communism, worse to the agrarian and the farmer, the peasant, the cattleman. So at this point in the last year, we produced 50% less tomatoes, fruits, vegetables, nuts, fairy tales, plums, abandoned orchards, plums, households. We're under emergency measures. We're talking about a piece that, in 15 years, absolutely nothing has been done. Do you want to take it? Where's the Minister of Justice? In what way? What resources? Shells? Material? What potential? To show interest here and transfer to local self-government for all that the state has not done and these unnecessary counties that have destroyed not only the systems of homes of health, education that is under their jurisdiction, irrigation that is under their jurisdiction. Now the Tribals wash their pylor hands and transfer everything exclusively to local self-government. And what do they serve? Transferred state offices to them, to make more productions. How is that decentralisation? It's not decentralisation, it's a hack, it's peeling the skin of a peasant and a farmer. Take measures now. Here's my suggestion. The measure of inciting artificial sneezing to the maximum, to the pain. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101444	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Shimpraga will speak in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101445	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director, my colleagues and my colleagues. The proposal for a law on the accumulation of agricultural land in the second reading does not make too much difference compared to the first reading. It is also interesting to see a whole series of observations made in the first reading and not accepted. However, however, this new law should make a positive step and a root change from the current law. A few days ago, I read a text about a rounding process in the south of the country in the Konavle municipality. This example will hopefully be followed by many because rounding is a prerequisite for the activation of the vast untapped potential where, in a concrete example, about 460 ha, there are incredible thousands and 300 owners and co-owners, some of whom are entitled only to a meter of square or two. Therefore, at the outset, particles were isolated and listed within the so-called “particles”. Compassionate gromads. It was done on 100 ha of land, of which 170% are state-owned. This structure testifies to the great fragmentation of parcels which significantly increases the costs and time needed to process them, and the commission should solve the problems of this type. Cruising land is, to the most extent, the basis for more serious future investments and stronger technological empowerment of smaller farms that today lose a lot of energy, energy and money to process a large number of small land parcels scattered on different sides that make their work more difficult. The implementation of cohesion as a reform measure is also important because it can represent a model that we will use throughout Croatia and encourage the other JLS to launch rounding procedures for agricultural land in its fields. The law will further regulate this important area and prescribe rights, as well as obligations, and in the design of a programme of agricultural land membership. Agricultural land is the most important resource we have, and we hope to be faster, more efficient, fairer and more transparent by implementing this law, as well as by amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. As I said earlier, but also in the first reading, unfortunately the plots that are being done are mostly depreciated, property-law relations complex, so the whole process of co-composition cannot go smoothly at this time. Without the rounding, there is no advanced agricultural production, and the rounding would also be practical and pragmatic because large parcels are always lower costs precisely due to the machinery, large machinery with a large working procedure reduces the total cost of production of each culture. According to data from the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb in 2018, more than 157 thousand OPGs were registered in Croatia with an average of 7.2 hectares of surface area in 8.6 plots of an average size of 0.8 hectares. The largest average parcels are in Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, and Virovitica-Podravska County, the lowest average of Dubrovnik-Neretva and Krapina-Zagorska County. It would also put raw agricultural land into operation, which is not small, and the potential problem is think and fear of people because people are afraid that they will not get the same quality and class of the country or they will be in a smaller plot. Why do I hope it doesn't happen? First of all, due to the defined principles of equal value, and the principles of shape, use and position of land. The proposal for a law should be implemented in such a way as to assign to the participant a new one of equal values for its land, with a reduction in the value of land for general needs, common needs of settlements and participants. Exceptionally, the value of the land assigned to it cannot be less than 90% or greater than 120% of the value of the land that was introduced into the commercial thunder. The bill also provides for fines ranging from 15 to 50 000 kuna for a legal person who interferes with the introduction of a participant in the ownership of the land assigned to them. Responsible persons in the legal person will also be punished as will natural persons. These penalties should also deter potential problems. The key to such a serious undertaking as the commission certainly is to simplify the procedure through reducing administration and educating people, especially this second segment. I understand people who sometimes don't have enough information about something, don't simply see all the benefits, so they don't agree to change. The same must apply to the management of individual JLS. That is why the competent ministry must assume on itself the burden of approaching and clarifying this institute not only to individuals but also to JLS representatives. We are all interested in implementing the law in practice primarily because it should lead to an improvement in the blood count of Croatian agriculture. The SDSS advocates' club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101446	- Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101447	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Recently, this law was in our first reading and until the second reading, the proposal experienced only a few changes mostly technical and nomotechnical nature and this is more or less so. The debate was very good, there were many quality proposals, both from the opposition and from the ruling ranks, from the Committee on Agriculture as well, but everything was rejected. This is very interesting that today is ahead of us because more or less everything was that they were HDZ's proposals from the Agriculture Committee, where the ruling majority again, of members of the ruling coalition, of the individual representatives of the ruling coalition, of us from the opposition, when you look at this text, is not accepted, not accepted, and it is very well said that this government is functioning, so it is asked after this debate and unfortunately not only after this very legitimate question, why all of this if the Proposer i.e. The ministry rejects all proposals in turn, and the robot hands will vote on Friday, regardless of what their proposals are all rejected and that is, it should not be surprised that the public is asking the question of why the parliament, why parliamentarians should always vote if the ruling majority always vote anything the ministry proposes, and even when proposals by the ruling majority are rejected. So what's the fundamental feature of this government and the proposing is we still have to agree with the haughtiness that grows every day and we don't see the end of it, and this document right here is white-and-white and it proves and confirms it. What is the second feature of the proposal of this law that today is in the second reading before us? It's a big rush. This law obviously had to be passed just as it was written, as soon as it was 30. one big nothing, and now in a few weeks immediately and quickly we will pass a law that will allegedly solve the mess and lead to a regulated, decorated area of agricultural land and everything that should be the result of this law. Under the current law, no commissions were made, but it did not bother anyone that the past minister was not still a valid minister. So, for years, the rulings did not mind the reduced parcels of both the SDP governments and the HDZs, and it is these depravated parcels that are one of the main causes of low productivity of our agriculture, which is about 30% of the EU average, and now, suddenly, we are going to do it better, so we all need to be aware of the fact that next year, the moratorium stands out for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And when we have the average price of a hectare of agricultural land, which is among the lowest in the EU, we really have to ask ourselves why the haste and why it is right now and why it is all being arranged by EU funds right now, I am not a supporter of some conspiracy theories, but all this kind of conveniently coincided and too much came together to make it random. We must ask ourselves in the finale what will remain of this Croatia. The answer that the first law will have the state should not comfort us but need further concern. We send oil to Hungary until our refineries work, our concessions make a little more than 200 million kuna a year, which means that all our mines and other resources are literally given to invaluable. Here and recently we saw that the competitions were scattered on Christmas Eve, and then also some minor prices and concession fees are charged for hydroelectric power plants. Today, more than ever, we see the importance of energy independence and agricultural production, and it is the agricultural land that is invaluable and what are these issues that have been raised from day to day since the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, will there be food, what is our food security? Such a question in Croatia that could produce food not for these 3 million and 800 thousand inhabitants but significantly more means that all governments have failed the exam so far. This situation in our agriculture is not from yesterday and in all governments so far lies responsibility for this disastrous situation. But that usually happens when you go to ruin something, and you have no vision of how a new system should be built, very often there is no knowledge. It's a 30-year story. Our farms from the '90s to today are looking at a copy of that approach, and today we are where we are. So today in Croatia despite the incentives of very high 7 billion per year, farmers are looking for an urgent thematic session of the government. That says enough about the seriousness of the situation we're in. Farmers, as well as the rest of the population, are concerned about food safety, and especially the situation in livestock that is literally on their knees. That our farmers are doing their job responsibly and thinking ahead of time about the problems that could be said and the fact that they are asking for a postponement of the application of the EU's common agricultural policy for a year. It is one thing to implement the CAP in circumstances that were until the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, and now it is a completely different situation when food security is crucial. The increase in grain prices is unremembered, products from cattle meat, milk, eggs do not cover 50% invested in food for animals, prices on the markets of wheat and corn these days range from 350 to 400 euros per tonne, at the annual level of wheat and corn have accumulated as much as 85% compared to last autumn, and compared to the period from one year ago and the multi-year average price is more than 150%. These are the circumstances in which we live and these are the circumstances in which our farmers work. They've also collected all the additives in the feed of cattle and that multiple, artificial fertiliser, too, so we currently have the most expensive crop in these last 30 years. All of this could lead to a reduction in the stock fund that is now insufficient for the needs of our population. Given the unfavourable situation on the market and unless an adequate solution is quickly found, estimates are that the stock fund will fall another 25%. At a time when prices of gas, fuel and fertilisers are savage, the emphasis must be on food security, not environmental policies. A year or two of the ZPP's delays in this situation must not be a problem. We today have bans on using certain means of protection, and the chemical industry continuously in innovation finds new chemicals that are less harmful and have the desired effect, which is a good breed. And let us not be fooled that the application of the CAP and the green plan will raise the yields, on the contrary, will reduce the yields on average 10 to 20%, and in some crops even 50%, food production and the income of farmers will be reduced, which is totally unacceptable in this situation. If Germany can talk about their thermal power plants starting to use coal, then we too must start thinking in this direction to support the initiative to postpone the application of the CAP for a year so that our farmers can perform in these challenging circumstances their function that they always perform well, which is to ensure the food security of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101448	Thank you. Mr. Emil Daus will represent the views of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed State Secretary with an associate, the IDS Club of course believes that agricultural land should be rounded up and the commission is certainly one of the ways to do so. In any case, we want more rounded acres than more divided and plotted on which illegally zero buildings and cottages, I'm talking about agricultural land. However, I would refer to and I will not be very long on these differences between the first and second readings because reading the explanation that the representatives' proposals were not accepted in the first reading with regret I note that they were not accepted and mine, but also a few other representatives, even some of the ruling majority in this assembly such as the fact that a multidisciplinary issue is not met and when it comes to such a reform of agrarians, one system so complex that it should be brought into line with other institutions, other ministries that other regulations should be previously amended and it is proposed that this law goes in a package with amendments to the Law on Heritage, the Law on Land Books and the Law on Double Taxation in order to create pre-community conditions. And what's wrong with that? On the contrary, we think that this is the only way to do it if we want to make a complete agricultural reform because one without another is not going. It can be done that several projects or 10-ac, 20-ac commissions in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia but it is not a systematic approach and it is not an overall approach to solving such a complex problem because Croatia is so diverse and so specific, so I think all of these diversity and specificities should be taken into account when it comes to such a complex process as agricultural land. And I will repeat just a few reasons why this law is in practice very difficult to implement primarily by referring to the area I come from, it is the area of Istria, Kvarner, but it is similar throughout the Adriatic Croatia, Dalmatia, islands, the northern coast. First, unresolved property legal relations, the grantovnica still contains owners who died 100 years ago, particle owners located in America, Australia, Canada, Italy, Germany, etc., since you know the history of large population migration from Istria, Kvarner, Primor, Dalmatia and the island in the history of our country. Secondly, the optantic assets were never resolved until the end of the issue of the property of former owners, or that a little precision was never fully resolved properly and which, after World War II, opted for the citizenship of other states. We have such cases in the Istrian peninsula. Third, unsolved possession, we know it's not always the same as the grant, at least where it should be the same if we know it's the same owner and owner. Catastar can be late for 7 to 8 years compared to land books. And, of course, catastrian operatives are not in line with the real situation on the ground. And there was another comment from the debate in the first reading that was not accepted, and that was when I said that it would be extremely difficult in Istria to estimate the value of a particular particle compared to the other unless it was in its immediate vicinity. It is an area where land prices are enormously different, high, wild, constantly changing, most often growing, and where in practice there can be a very large difference in prices from one particle to another even if they are only a few hundred meters away. Believe me, that's the situation on the ground. In the light of the above, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I understand all of this clearly, but I repeat, the situation is not the same everywhere in the Republic of Croatia, and this will be a big problem in the future if these differences and specificities of the territory in Croatia are not valid. And to sum up because it doesn't make much sense to be longer, I think a lot is said during the first reading, in the debate on the first reading of this law. The IDS Club is a position to unite agricultural parcels in order to multiply the effect of agricultural production itself, in order to consequently even, and this is very important to us down below, to alleviate and to accelerate the harmful activities of savages, but to speed up the natural overall development of agriculture in the country. However, we continue to believe that this law will not be sufficient for the quality of commissioning throughout the Republic of Croatia, but the whole process should have been approached more systematically, more fully and not quite a prerequisite for its quality implementation. Believe me, this will prove to me, except where there are almost ideal conditions for the implementation of the commission, because when such a reform of agrarians is done, and this should be part of the overall reform and of such a complex system, then it should be brought into line with other institutions, I said in my first reading to other ministries, it is necessary to change other regulations previously. So here we were expected to be in the package to go except for the amendments, or other than this law, to change the Law on Heritage, the Law on Land Books, the Law on Double Taxation, in order to actually create much more quality preconditions for the very membership. And on the one hand, if we were to go rounding, to go into the commission, but because of all of this IDS club, he's going to be held back in voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101450	Thank you. Mr. Niksha Vukas, will represent the views, views of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101451	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues second reading of the agricultural land's memberships. What do you say? If anyone knows anything about agriculture, they can't say that the commission won't help Croatia's agriculture tomorrow. In our strategy that we had here in the Croatian Assembly A strategy of agricultural production is also mentioned that we need to round up, that we need to be competitive. However, when we talk about cohesion we cannot avoid here not to draw attention to all the problems of Croatian agriculture we have today. In my opinion, 30 years of agriculture, we've been tearing up, privatizing, crumbling, moving out, and then after 30 years, we've remembered that we should be rounding up. Okay, it's never too late. The law of this amendment between the first and second reading o.k.a. This could have been reduced by 5 years of working experience in the profession for these commissions. The commissions are seven members. I remain on my claim that if agriculture is important to us, if agriculture is really of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and must be, because we see what happens next to Ukraine because of Russia's aggression with Ukraine, the question is whether we can be self-sufficient in agricultural production today. No one will answer or have the courage to give that answer whether we have enough in our stock reserves, whether we will sow enough in this agricultural crop. These are topics of national interest and I think that this is how agriculture should be treated. When at a time in the former state, under alleged signs during this communism, people were committed to it, created as giants, farmers are created. I worked 15 years ago on a property that's been compromised and it's beautiful. You have particles in one piece, you have an economic building with those machines, you don't go on the road, you don't have to have the cost of registration, everything's close to you. Therefore, if we want to do anything for Croatian agriculture, it should enable people to circle around. To circle, then they need to hang out afterwards, they need to have enough to go to the market. To talk today about the price of mineral fertilisers is insane. We have a mineral fertiliser factory called Petrokemia that doesn't work or is on machines. We know that Russia was a major exporter of mineral fertilisers and that channel is closed. We destroyed our seed production. I don't see, we've got a little leftovers from the Osijek Institute and I want any luck, they need to be helped in every way to keep working. The BC Institute has been privatised, while American companies have had a little more expertise in doing this, they have had a 50 per cent stake in the seed market in Croatia, and these are all things to talk about as we have to talk about the subject of cohesion today. 23 units of local self-government have shown that a public call for co-operation is open, it is 18000 to 46,000 ha. I threw a little bit of statistics on the board, we later got what units of local self-government were, so I saw there was a mixed 23, it seems to me that the Slavonian Countys have 5 or 6 units of local self-government. There are also 4, 5 in Dalmatia, something in northern Croatia and that's good. Europe will co-finance this, but what I would like to say is let's not just do it to withdraw money from the EU. Of course, the money for agriculture is important, but I see recently that everyone likes to talk about agriculture, everyone likes to talk about agricultural production, but the only thing agriculture has come down to is who's going to buy what tractor and who's going to pull some money from the EU. And then we have after that, and who's going to pick up some of them, but not because that family has some tradition, which is what they want to deal with, which is going to end up on the market that they might be able to live on for maybe three generations. Because if we go a little deeper into that farm now, it's family business, it's hereditary. Look at the small farm in Italy, look at the French wineries, dairys, sirens, vineyards, and it's all passed down from knee to knee. I have a feeling that in that farm we're just going around, just looking at where measure three, measure four, measure this, measure it to withdraw some money. Someone's gonna sell some machines. I was with a farmer a few days ago who was raising blueberries right now, so I guess the blueberry's healthy, so he got some money, so his son's a small farmer, so he pulled it out of his O.P.G. to get that money. I welcome everyone. But in the meantime, from the app itself to today, she's collected all that equipment, and it can't be covered at all, because she has to finance to get the money back, so she's going to have to be in debt. And in the end, that agriculture comes down to the fact that we buy expensive farm equipment from outside because we destroyed everything at home, there's no one else to sell. People are always in some loans, they always have to pay for something, pay for it later, and that's your real state of Croatian agriculture. We need to be honest, real, we killed everything we could kill. And if this commission is one prerequisite now, that old Law of Cooperation that was in 2015 that I don't remember anymore, so the hectare didn't go round. I support this, we will support this Law of Cooperation on behalf of the Social Democrats Club so as not to say that we are against farmers, that we want to put the last nail in the coffin of our agricultural producers. No, we'll uphold the law. Those little things that I can bother you with will always bother you if you want to find a reason to bother you. If you want to help agriculture, we'll support it, but it's a drop in the sea. So here's an example of you wanting to circle something private, to move the state and units of local self-government out of the process, that two neighbors want to replace the land, so I can't replace it. One must sell to another, the other must sell to the first and both must pay taxes. It's impossible to do that! There's gonna be a problem, and it's not going to go so smoothly, but we're going to give support. We'll give support because I think our agriculture, I admire those people who still stay talking more about small farmers, let's let companies or people who work more than 100 hectares, these are big producers, but small OPGs who have 2-10, 15 acres and need help. If this commission is going in this direction to start more seriously and more easily, more collected and statistically to put everything on the table of agriculture needs a lot of things. So we're scheduled with irrigation systems, we're scheduled with agricultural cooperatives, we're, say someone's pleasing to foreign importers, no, we're killing our own. We killing ours have opened the way with foreign chains and foreign products that our farmers don't know they don't have bills to produce. Well, ten years ago when I ran a cattle production farm, you couldn't get that hero's incentive if your calf got kidnapped on a farm, and if you bought it in Romania, you could get a boost. Well, we did absurds in our agriculture, absurds. And why now, on the list of people from Slavonia, so many people moved out, because they couldn't find an economic calculation that they could live from agriculture. But we killed agriculture and in secondary activity, before people worked in a company in the morning, they were doing agriculture, so now there's no farm. When I came to Zagreb there in 2002. When I was driving down the Pisarovina by the road I had three, four times a statue to pass some cow, so now you can't see it anymore. And then we're writing a strategy, and in that strategy we jewelry so many things, we don't want to be the state of Denmark, or France or Spain. So let's look ourselves in the eye we killed Croatian agriculture. Let's find some consensus, let's find some people who will have some serious fun. This commission proposal will pass by the Social Democrats Club for or against it will certainly 77 hands be secured there and it will pass and ok, but let's see in two years how many of these hectares we have circled, how many agricultural productions are there, what has been produced strategically, what has been sold, how much VAT has been charged these are things we need to talk about, but I see that everyone likes to talk about agriculture populistly, everyone would like to get some political points. There's no point in agriculture because all the governments that were scheduled to go to agriculture, no matter whether it's left or right. But now it's the last time we try to help Croatian agriculture not to shut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101452	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Stromar in front of the club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A fellow secretary of state. As I prepare for this debate, I came across a thought that says about this, “You will need a doctor, a lawyer, a policeman, a preacher, but every day at least three times a day you will need a farmer. ” I believe that you will agree, agricultural production is a fundamental branch of the economy, and farmers have the necessary bearers of prosperity and the future of the country. We see it best today. EU membership opened a large market for agricultural products, but at the same time exposed domestic farmers to strong competition. On the other hand, the pandemics of the coronaryvirus we have been living with for two years, then the energy crisis, and now the war in Ukraine are causing strong global disturbances that will have a long-term impact on agriculture, agricultural production, food security, lack of food and availability. He would dare say that soon agricultural land will become one of the most wanted resources. In Croatia, agricultural areas are sufficient, but are used enough. According to the ARCOD, the registration of the agricultural land administration in the Republic of Croatia currently deals with 1.15 million hectares of land, of which 281,445 hectares of state and 867,167 hectares of private. With a number of figures facing domestic farmers, what is certainly a problem for competitive and productive agricultural production is land depletion. About 170,000 agricultural holdings were registered in Croatia, with 76% of farmers using less than five hectares. And in the Varazdin County where I come from, data are devastating, the average plot area of 0.36 hectares is not enough for any producer of production and long-term and serious projection of the development of agriculture. It is similar in some other parts of Croatia. It is precisely the proposal for a law on the cohesion of agricultural land that we are discussing today that should be addressed in the direction of solving these problems. In the HNS, we welcome this proposal, given that it should reduce administrative barriers and speed up and simplify the process of cohesion, which in practice would mean increasing productivity, creating additional value and better and better quality use of agricultural land. As indicated in the proposal, a favourable condition was created for the development of agricultural production by establishing larger and more regular cadastrian particles, construction of waterways and waterways for milliorization and other land planning works. The team would also place unprocessed land on as many as 70,000 hectares. For the implementation of this law, which should allow for a total of at least 18,000 hectares in the first phase by the end of the first quarter of '26. 250 million kuna is secured through the NPOO. I am pleased that the interest in the comassation process has also been shown by several units of local self-government from Varazdin County, more specifically over 3,500 hectares in 7 cadastrian municipalities with more than 13 thousand particles, with which to start immediately in rounding projects, and these are locations of the surroundings of Vidovac and the surrounding area of Ludbredsko region. I hope that interest is expressed in other counties, and we also see that I also believe that we will support this bill by consensus, given that it is essential that we develop serious and competitive agricultural production in the future. The implementation of the system should also result in an increase in the value of agricultural land, in particular in the context of the fact that in early '23. expires on the sale of agricultural land to foreign investors. It is precisely because of the fragmentation and weaker infrastructure of agricultural land prices in Croatia that are currently among the lowest in EU countries. But what worries me about the implementation of this law and what could in practice significantly slow down the process of cohesion is the problem of unsettled land books and ownership relations. It is necessary to move seriously into the process of regulating agricultural land in a cataract and land-based way as soon as possible. So this isn't just a job that's tied to just one ministry, but it takes a synergy of a few resistors. The commission itself is a complex business and the law should be as simple and as efficient as possible. To conclude, agricultural production may seem easy and successful when the pen is a plow, and the organ when the office is in town, but we all know that agriculture is much more complex and requires much more engagements if we want it to be productive, competitive and quality, it takes a lot of knowledge of our farmers and a lot of sweats to pass to make a quality agricultural product. Therefore, the proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, which goes in this direction, is necessary and I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101454	Thank you. Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101455	Dear Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is the third time behind this speaker I am talking about combating and, as the legislator says, the bill is a prerequisite for putting agricultural land into operation to create better economic foundations for the growth of agricultural production to enable it to function as a deserted agricultural land of irregular forms, thus creating greater added value, regulating municipal infrastructure, other types of infrastructures, Polish roads and in fact better conditions for living in rural space. For us in Međimurje, the topic is good and current. I come from the end if you pass through the entire Međimurje you won't find a free and unprocessed, unprocessed plot, let's say an empty plot, but it's a thing of one tradition where everyone with their job has a land on the side that has worked for their own needs, but times change, people no longer have time to mechanise, opportunities to process these surfaces, but the surfaces remain fragmented, it's hard to have enough surfaces of a serious agricultural holding to meet certain conditions needed to report to competitions, get support etc.. There are numerous problems in agriculture, it is easy to list them, small and uncompetitive economies, a large number of old economies, fragmented agricultural land, small production plots, insufficient use of agrotechnical measures, poor productivity, poor supply of permanent and agricultural waste. No one escapes from it, but this government is trying to solve problems slowly. The problems of the commission are one of these problems, and I hope that this law will solve one in most of the major problems. The improvement of the agricultural land restructuring and cohesion system is a reform measure within the NPOO 2021 to '26, and 313 million kunas are planned for its implementation, 80% of EU funds, and 20% from the state budget. These funds plan to cover 18 thousand hectares of agricultural land, the statement of interest is excellent, 26 JLS with approximately 46,000 hectares. The commission is a long-term job, a serious job, and therefore the process should be taken seriously from all sides especially for JLS which play a very large role in this. In the Republic of Croatia, we know of small-sized possessions, and if we return in 2015. where the Cooperation Act has been adopted, it has not been implemented and according to statistical data since 2018. We have an average of 7.6 hectares of surface in 8.6 plots of only 0.8 hectares per plot. There are great differences again in the counties where Osijek-Baranja County has an average of 2.5 hectares while Krapina-Zagorje County is 0.3 hectares. For many reasons, and primarily high cost of land regulation, the commission is recommended for the counties with a smaller number but average larger, larger landowners while for the other counties some other forms of rounding of the area are recommended... Production, such as, are a voluntary replacement, sale or creation of certain manufacturing forms of integration, for example. cooperative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The comcommissioning process is carried out by placing the land into the so-called land. a composite thunder from which it is assigned... land of equal value and in as small a number of cadastrian particles... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the deduction of the value of land for general needs, common needs of settlements and participants of the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Experts point out that land circulation is largely the basis for future serious investment and stronger technological empowerment of smaller farms that today lose a lot of energy, energy and money to process large numbers of small land parcels broken down on different sides that make their work more difficult. The implementation of agricultural land pollution will be implemented in accordance with a programme built up by the Ministry of Agriculture and brought by the government in line with the financial means provided. The law provides for the Ministry of Agriculture to establish and manage an information system of electricity-based communications within which there will also be a registration. Excessive basis for the launch of the commission will be the idea of solutions to the commission that will create units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb, which is again good for us who come from local self-government because we know best the problems we face on the ground. The implementation of systematic co-operation should also ultimately result in an increase in the value of agricultural land because at the moment our agricultural land is as fragmented and weak infrastructure as a whole has one of the lowest prices in the countries, in the EU countries. We believe that this commission will again be a further basis for irrigation and other and other measures that improve agricultural production because our farmers are very valuable and diligent. They need to be encouraged to sometimes join in smart, quality, to follow competitions, to follow the market, and to sell their final products at a good price. Therefore, we believe that this Law on Cooperation is the first and fundamental measure to improve agricultural production and the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101456	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar, Department of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101457	Thank you very much. And here's our valuable officer who keeps it all clean. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, as we have heard from Mr. Kolarek, a man who knows what the situation is that we must ask myself this whole law reminds me of a moment in which a little better-standing family of farmers who are doing a little better in life then order a piano from a great work. And the piano comes into the house, the whole village comes to watch it, but there's one problem nobody can play on it. So, unfortunately, this law also raises a fundamental question before us. Is this law, i.e. this circumnavigation, a commission a good solution for all parts of Croatia? I'm sure he didn't. Where we can spend it in the regions of Croatia, which are extremely simple agricultural production, let them not mind, but I will call it simple, maybe it can be implemented in Slavonia, perhaps it can be carried out in the area of Baranja or some other county. Here I have a very, very, very interesting letter from a peasant, a real peasant from Podravina. Let's hear the word of the peasants from Podravina. The problem of rounding arises because the pile needs to be placed with a wide variety of soils from sands, pebble soils to the soil of the hammocks or those where the oaks of forests that give high yield land were long ago, and, of course, in this area changes the quality of land are followed and numerous meanings of Drava are changing high quality land with practically an unborn animal within a few hundred meters away and such is the state from the entry of Drava in Croatia, so from Legrad to Baranja. So the commission scares farmers in this area because almost everyone can happen to get a hundred acres of sand in one round place, and the other, of course, gets a high - birthed black woman in another area of the county again. Land prices in Predravlje range from 3,000 euros for plots in Strugam to 10,000 euros for Hungary's plot. Believe it or not, these two plots are only a mile away. So, 3 next to the Drava County grabs their heads when they hear the word "commission." Let's think this through. The official attitude of the Homeland Movement is, of course, the same as that of any reasonable man. We've had a law since 2015, we've had attempts since the '80s, all together, unfortunately one big zero. How to spend our dear lordship's compassionation being about as well as playing the piano in the already mentioned home of the village master. It is said that the work would put about 7 hundred thousand hectares of unprocessed land into operation. That sounds very nice, but of course I'm asking you how we're going to do it and what are we going to plant or grow on those 700 thousand acres? Replacement of land is a good idea, but it can possibly work when we change land with one-year cultures. How will you take his vineyard and give him a pasture a few miles away when it takes him 3, 4, 5. to bring that piece of land to its culture in the first place. What is written in this proposal for a law on property relations is settled according to the existing legal framework. Great, but the existing legal framework so far has proved extremely ineffective, we are still suffering from serious illnesses, huge problems regarding the identification of property relations, inconsistencies of cadastres and grantovnica, and as we have recently spoken here on behalf of the Homeland Movement when we talked about the cataster and the land measurements are sometimes the basis for the commissioning of the Austro-Hungarian Land Book. I also remind you of a public call to show interest in the commission of 23 JLS. Is that exactly all the JLS that could have come to the competition, whether they reported their surfaces or I repeat the question from the beginning of this exhibition, whether they were interested in composing or rounding at all? To praise it is understood that these meetings and invitations to farmers to come back and report again and that is absolutely all right. The question is, will all the resources be withdrawn since we see how the funds from the Solidarity Fund are withdrawn for earthquake recovery? The law proposed a return application so that it could be implemented through funding from funds available through NPOO. Public consultation on this draft bill was conducted please from 21 December of last year to 5 January of this year. Let's move on, according to Art. The 24th law provides the possibility, but does not oblige 3 members of the agronomic profession to be members of the commission, but also members of the legal and geodetic profession can be appointed in these places, which could be problematic due to the assessment of the land situation, its values according to the class, etc., etc. It wouldn't be a bad thing to condition the agronomic profession, but we're in the second reading, so good-bye ideas, bye. It is necessary to define more clearly which conditions must be met by experts for the preparation of the proposal for a commission. The question arises whether these are authorized geodetic offices, which in this business for 10 years, as well as in the famous legalisation will collect creams instead of using existing professional institutions of agronomic, geodetic and legal professions that will carry out this project of exceptional interest for the Croatian state. Before the very beginning of the work relating to the commission, we should work to amend legal regulations, to make clear powers stronger to include the agronomic profession in part of the professional works defined by the current law through the subject of the performer of expert geodetic affairs. Let's not forget we have to give it to the importance and the agronomic profession. I'll remind you there's a recent president of the Homeland Movement. Two days ago in Osijek, I.E. held a press conference at which we presented the Committee on Agriculture of the Homeland Movement in Osijek. We believe that Osijek is the centre of Slavonia, we believe that the focus of some resources should be where the administrative administration will be, when we talk about agriculture, it is certainly Slavonia and Osijek. Similarly, the management of Croatian forests should be located in Vinkovci because the city and the county have the richest resources of wood raw materials in Croatia. For a moment, I will jump out of the topic and say we will be busy getting Split as well as the Ministry of Tourism, but also other services such as the management of transport at sea and aquaculture. So far, agricultural policy has choked on a small OPG, the model we have in Croatia is approximately such that less than a hundred or two hundred hectares are not considered sustainable. What the Homeland Movement intends to change is Croatia's enough to produce all agricultural products that can be produced on our country. All except agrum and possible exotic fruit and vegetables Croatia must produce in sufficient quantities for its needs, but also for export, and we will know Croatia will offer a solution to this issue. The main comparative advantages of Croatia are agriculture and energy. We must carry out decentralisation of Croatia in the sense that where there is a production should be managed and managed because problems are best recognised. Croatia needs to be decentralised when it comes to state governance because it cannot develop differently. And finally, to what extent will the implementation of the Cooperation Act affect the announced merger of municipalities, or municipalities, of mergers to the membership? It is not until the end that the criteria for rewarding municipalities that decide to connect or completely abolish certain tasks are known. Let me remind you, when we were here a year ago to advocate the abolition of certain completely dysfunctional tourist communities we were told would you go to these places and tell these people we're cutting off your tourist community, so now I'm asking you, on the basis of which needs, what ideas do you really think that the residents of a municipality will just one morning get up, drink coffee and wish their municipalities were gone? So, the Law of Compassion absolutely yes, but once again I remind you it seems like no one needs a dusty piano on which no one can play.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101458	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Martina Vlasic Iljkic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101459	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Komassation of Agricultural Land announced in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Before we start an analysis of the final bill, I have to ask the Ministry again what they've been doing for seven years. In fact, the law has existed since 2015, and as far as we know under the current law, nothing has been done, but nothing but the minister at the end of last year could say that the law is wrong and that's all. It's obviously not the only area where nothing is done. According to data from the State Statistics Office last year, most fruit and vegetable production dropped compared to 2020. Last year was the worst tomato production in ten years. The production of cabbage, carrots, salads, beans, etc. has also been reduced. In the case of fruit, the decrease in production was also seen in all species except for the production of mandarin. For example, only 5800 tonnes were produced in plums, and one of the worst years in production was as regards apples, cherries, peaches, nectarines, etc. And now you may wonder what this has to do with the combination of agricultural land, but believe in agriculture is all connected and one activity is chain-stamped to another. With all the affairs of agricultural land that the law has not yet been passed, a commission in which no one has done anything for years, we can say nothing but wonder who it will serve. Croatia's agriculture is all but insufficient and every day our greatest wealth is crumbling. In our first reading, we expressed doubts about the implementation of the new Law on Cooperation, since no proceedings have been initiated in force. As a reason, it is instructed to be non-executive and that this is in fact simplifying the procedure that the European Commission must also be convinced of. So to approve an 80% co-financing while co-financing by the local self-government unit would amount to 20% of the total eligible cost. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan states that following the adoption of the 2015 law and the implementation of the first phase, five commercial project pilots have identified the need to amend the legislative framework in order to create a more economical and simpler rounding process. Pilot projects, as we have heard, have failed, and a great opportunity has been missed to at least take part of the means to implement the commission from the rural development programme between 2014 and 2020. For this purpose, the programme was intended for units of local and regional self-government, for the implementation of the commission, with the aid intensity of up to 100% of the eligible costs. Local self-government units now have to provide 20% of the budget, as well as additional costs for the employment of certain employees, commission work and a number of other costs. We believe that this is not more economical, especially for smaller units of local self-government in rural areas. The new law provides for 11 implementing bodies in place of 17 bodies and instead of 6 commissions, it provides for 1 commission to produce draft acts, public procurement, the system has been informed. The ministry is conducting a commission where local self-government cannot or does not have enough resources. All that has been promised, and in fact, it will simplify this process of compromise and justify the actual means of planning. What may have been the real problem of non-implementation under the existing law is the funding that is still provided this time, but the question is how much the ministry will withdraw the funds, how much we are actually willing to carry out these procedures, which according to some estimates, here we heard today for two and a half years but question whether it really is and so. What might be a real problem is we really need to repeat what happened in 2016 when we had completed pilot projects that were unwarranted from the numerous organisational and administrative obstacles that the ministry itself actually made to itself as ideas that were related to the abolition of the Agricultural Land Agency in 2018, and still to all other obstacles that actually prevented the pilot projects from actually being implemented. So what does the ministry do now? It transfers responsibility to units of local self-government, i.e. the holders of the commission, and among other things, the right to appeal to almost all decisions and solutions made in the comcommissioning process is abolished. I guess it's that simpler procedure. As with most of the laws that come from agriculture, the Institute of Administrative Dispute is introduced at the competent administrative court. It is not clear why we have a roof law, a general administrative procedure that actually defines the possibility of a complaint and why the whole procedure of starting a administrative dispute is actually being replaced. Since the law was not made in time last year, a public call was also made to local self-government units regarding how ready they are to carry out the commission. 23 local self-governments have applied and are covered by 46600 ha of agricultural land. We haven't received any information yet which are local self-government despite our enquiries. Today we heard that it was actually a sort of poll, not a real public call behind which there will actually be certain procedures. Therefore, after the vote of this law, if voted after this debate, a new public call will follow where units of local self-government will have to report again with documentation, perhaps with additional documentation and then will actually be a commission to decide which units of local self-government to include, or how much, that land will be included from its total to choose those 18000 ha as planned. Therefore, 313 million kunas are planned to cover a 18-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. As for the implementation of the comcommissioning process itself, we have made proposals in the first reading that have not been accepted and we will also submit amendments. Unfortunately, four years have been missed for the implementation of the agricultural land-based commissioning and rounding, an almost identical situation with the state-owned agricultural land. The stories of increasing the amount, quality and competitiveness of the positive results sound tragic until farmers can invest in irrigation actually because of the depletion of parcels and cannot reach the basic resource for work, which is agricultural land. In Croatia, about 160,000 agricultural holdings have been registered with an average of 7.2 hectares of agricultural land on 8.6 plots of an average size of 0.8 hectares per plot. This structure actually speaks and proves the great fragmentation of parcels which significantly increases both the costs and the time needed to process them. The productivity of Croatian agriculture is at 31% of the EU average, although the ministry provided data on the use of 85% of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. which led us to the fifth place in the EU, but during that period, not a single euro has been used to combine agricultural land. The land price is the lowest among the lowest in the EU, which is certainly a major problem, since more than 18,000 hectares need to be planned, because according to the data, there are as many as 700,000 hectares of unprocessed land, which can actually be put into operation through a commercial process. We are now talking about only 18,000 hectares, which is devastating when we see how many more acres of unprocessable land we have left. In Slavonia, Vukovar-Srijem County, Osijek-Baranja, Virovitica-Podravska County and the highest average parcels are also in these counties, and at least the average size of the parcels in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Krapina-Zagorska. It would be interesting if we had a chance to see what local self-governments were showing interest in seeing if it was following this real state. We can agree that there is no development of agriculture without the commercialization, and that's all we're waiting for. All these seven years. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101460	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Lenart Club of Representatives of HSS and RF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101461	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State. My colleagues. We are talking about the great importance of membership in the Republic of Croatia, here on this topic we six in the assembly plus the vice president obviously it is not so important for the Republic of Croatia because no one wants to hear it, and too much as I see neither debate nor discuss this topic. The cost of agricultural land is an extremely sensitive topic because it is a private land mainly, and private ownership is a constitutional category, private property is inalienable and violently conduct a procedure will be very, very difficult. I'm not saying that the commission is not necessary, however, we should have done agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia long ago, especially private, but 31 years nothing. For 31 years nothing on this matter has been done. What happened at 31? We had agricultural industrial combinations, former PICs that were formed how? By nationalising agricultural private ownership by rounding technology units, by forming agricultural combinations that also had quality production, it was built on a large part of the canal network, a meliorative procedure was made, draining. And what happened in those 31 years? The PICs were destroyed as the legacy of communism, they were distributed to some of the new Counts we see today. Here's an article in the Morning List, "Nine of the top ten OPGs don't settle their debts," these little ones settle because I know they have to. If they do not settle, pension and health 600 kunas every month sue them and then in court they must prove, be completed and must pay what is... What's worse? Agricultural parcels, i.e. The technological production units that were drained were divided into several parts, which is the opposite of what we want today and what we're talking about in the field. A commission from the old days still today has scars in people because it was not properly made. As I said last time in the debate, a massage is a mother to someone and a stepmother to someone. And here in Art. 3. It is also said that, exceptionally from Article 1. of this article, the value of land granted to a participant cannot be less than 90% or greater than 120% of the value of the land. Is everything going to be well assessed? Who's going to get 120 percent of the value? At 10 hectares it is 2 hectares, and who will get 90% at 10 hectares it is one hectare lost today when the land price is growing astronomically, when it is already difficult to find free agricultural land to buy or even rent someone here could profit well. I'm not saying that the intention of this law is that, but knowing all the processes that have been going on all these 31 years with state agricultural land, I'm not convinced it's going to be done right. It says the purpose of the commission is to make more economic use of agricultural land, with more favourable conditions for agricultural production, more correct particles, roads, channel network, rounding, increase in ownership of higher rentability. Yes, I agree that there will be better conditions if a channel network is created, if roads are made where they are not, if there are correct particles, but I don't see here that the properties will increase. If you're going into a combination with a certain amount of land, and about that same amount should come out of that commission. The fact is that there are areas in the Republic of Croatia where it is necessary, but I don't think it can be done this way as proposed by the law. It says a comcommissioning programme is being developed by the ministry, sources of funding are being established, the programme is being made, the programme is being decided by the government. The Ministry is responsible for implementation, the holder of the commission is responsible for launching and implementing the programme when the holder of the unit of local self-government City of Zagreb is the competent authority of the municipal head or mayor. Today we discussed this committee, and the conclusion is that local self-government units should be working on a commission. So the local self-government units have so far proven that they haven't properly run the state-owned agricultural land contests, that there have been a number of malfeasances, that there have been a series of sheriffs in certain municipalities that have done so, you've seen on TV both in the checkers and in the newspapers, let's stop it. I can't do that, Chief. I'm asking you how it's going to work, say, the Major municipality that has about one and a half million original budgets, and the pay expenditures are 1.8 million kunas. 10 million kuna total budget gross, the state certainly keeps them alive so that the municipality can do this kind of work at all, no capacity, nothing at all. He may have 100 times the will to do it, but he can't do it. I believe that the commission must operate exclusively by the ministry, that the ministry must carry out all processes and that people who are subject to political change must not be involved in the commission. So it must be employees with great experience, with proven knowledge from various professions there must certainly be a paying agency that still has the most information on what is being processed from the land and how it is processed, which has all the cards, which sees everything from the air, so these are people who have to work whether or not the government is going to change or are people who will continue to do this job. It says the commission will not be launched if it is established that the implementation of the co-operation could make the conditions for agricultural production of landowners in the area of the planning of cohesion worsen. And here we leave one space, if there's one giant under the quotes, one countess, that if he doesn't respond he won't be run... They do not matter, he is important because unfortunately in Croatia it has been proven that such matters are not important, that family economies are not important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already proposed here a measure that can precede the membership, which can far better fix the picture and therefore improve the picture of particle depletion or economies faster than it is currently a commission. Deleting the boundaries of cadastrian particles. I said my example where I bought 4 acres of 8 owners, I have 12 particles, today it's one parcel, but in order to erase it and do one particle to better improve the statistics and appearance of our catastrian particle status, I would have to pay for it a small fortune for the elaborates, for the meters to erase it. Let's pass a law where those who want to do it, maybe some don't want to, some want to have particles, but those who want it to simply sign it, they delete those particles to make it a state administration with a minimum cost and that we have a far better picture than it is today. It will take a long time, very difficult to come to an agreement because people are sentimental towards their land, there are 100 types of land on one wall, it will be very difficult to agree and I think there will be a great dissatisfaction of those who will be forced to be devastated. They will be given worse land than they had in order to make it right and we will not achieve anything much more by digging up channels and making roads that will be the greatest gain in all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101462	You, too. Mrs. Anka Dark, not Mr. William Matula, I apologize, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. My apologies, I read the line out front.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101463	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, that's when I listen to the arguments of Agent Lenart who personally handled the country and in the last debate he had all these remarks and when none of this really happened then and my enthusiasm with which I wanted to see, in every sense, only the very most positive reasons for rounding up the land. So the abandoned land of an irregular form is round, normally that for those of us who don't understand ourselves in the production itself, it seems to be something that's very logical and clear. That's 18,000 ha for 313 million, so that's 17,000 380 grand per hectare. Part of this money is certainly going to the information register of the commission, and who knows what all of this is going to be done in order for these seven members of the commission to be measured and all of this to be taken into account but it is necessary to take account these 17 400 kuna per hectare here the average price of agricultural land in Croatia, which is among the lowest on average, means in Europe. There's only Estonia behind us. What I was able to find is that, on average, that means 3325 euros for orans, of course, in the continental part of the good, quality place are these orans and at 10,000 euros already now. However, the average cost of land, agricultural land in neighbouring Slovenia, is already 18460 euros per hectare. And to be clear, it's not hard to imagine these poor sides of the speculative mind-leaving mind that immediately imposes themselves here which are in conflict with what we want to imagine that a small OPG will get a chance to round up its own or to replace its own parcels. But here, we've just been told by Agent Lenart how sensitive it is when you put your country in a common thunderstorm, now you depend on what you get from it, what they offer you, what it is to you compared to what it is. But at the same time, the Secretary of State asked me what a lot of people asked me if it would be from the experience that we have with our previous behaviour and the chieftain roles at local level and with the agricultural policy and the work of the ministries so far when Mr. Lenart says that all experience teaches us that in the last 30 years none of this has been good here now we are faced with a new ruling party that has nothing to do with what last week's affairs are. I then ask the Secretary of State what are the possibilities for the municipality to say from those who have come forward or some future smaller municipalities that do not have the strength to do so themselves if they increase, level and make larger surfaces can the local self-government sell it. Agricultural land owned by the state can be sold on the basis of a public tender that, however, in the current law says nicely that this, apart from the ponds of common pastures, is combined,... The surface of that, on the one hand, that's what they encourage you to do and it says so, so wait, I can't do that. They're not gonna do it for a year when strangers are allowed to come here and buy land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We told the Slovenians that they already have this price, but the price in Europe goes up to the sky for an orderly, quality land per hectare. We have now heard that these prices are already rising, but it is possible to imagine a small municipality, so one owner in the continental area can take up to 10 hectares in a public tender where you can sell cadastrian land particles up to 10 ha imagine and he can buy 50 ha himself. And if several of them join together and at that price that is easily possible to jump significantly above, it is possible to imagine that several million kunas will be this small municipality and the commissioner that this will imagine all of what the representative said before me, that this may be the reason for speculation with the country and then I understand all the suspicions. At the same time this morning, I was talking about us keeping an eye on it, but you're saying it'll end in two and a half years. In two and a half years, there will be elections at the latest. I said this morning it would be one of the topics. It will certainly be everything we will manage to find out in the meantime, depending on whether you will succeed until the end of the term of office. We'll be careful and as enthusiastic as I was this morning, my colleagues are now reassuring me that there is still time to think about it until Friday's vote. So we're going to have to think about it, and we wouldn't think that you're just a little bit of these good reasons that were put into the proposals and we're going to see what you're going to be like with the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101464	To you. And now it's Mrs. Schneider. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101465	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very soon after the first reading and the second reading came to us the Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land, so as a final proposal. When you're the last club like me, then you have a few flaws and a few advantages. The disadvantage is that all clubs had already told them what their attitudes were, they emphasized all the things that in that law seem bad and unimplementable, and the advantage is that you can do a little bit of resuming and that you can look back a little bit and look back and what this new law brings and a word that might be some sort of summary of all that. We as a club when we decide if we're going to back something up and be abstentioned or against it then we have some clear criteria and some things and a lot of laws we support because we think they're good, we're going in the right direction, we're against it because it doesn't seem to be good, we're around some and we're restrained where we give one, some chance. The question is, does this law have to and can have any chance at all, the question is what is the meaning and purpose of this law? So if we have a law that is in force, which has shown that it is inconclusive and in the explanation for the first reading, the proposer said that the basis of this law did not create effects, then the main question is what is the meaning and purpose of this law, so it can be two. One thing can be to really tell people my composition is extremely important to us and let's see that we're faster, more operational, and everything else because the finals that were in another country in the last century or the point and the goal is we need to have the law and let's now pass another law, there we'll put a clutch there and we'll say here we have it all together. I don't think the meaning and purpose of this law should really be a clutch, so we do, but I think that the meaning and purpose of this law should be to be enforceable. So the basic question that we need to ask ourselves is whether we want a commission, if we want to let it go, let's see how to make it faster and make it more pulsating. Look a little, you don't need to look at much, just look at the back pages of this law where the reasoning is not accepted. There are high-quality and good remarks that the promoter did not accept. Much more energy was spent not to accept them than energy should spend that in some provisions of the law, he installed these remarks to make the law actually better. I want to, so I've said it on several occasions, and I'm looking at it, for years I've been involved in environmental impact assessments, even more than I've ever been one of the first to be active in getting a strategic environmental impact assessment, and you've got this sort of thing that you always have that, that cost-benefit analysis. To me, it's the basis for any law, so if we have some kind of law that's bad, which is inconclusive, whatever nobody's going to write the law with the intention of being bad and inconclusive, and then put your foot in the door and then make some kind of plan and hodogram and see what's under that law, you're going to do a new law that I assume you want to be faster, that it's more practical, that it's got some results, let's see where these processes can be shortened, where something can be saved, where something can be done, and it seemed to me that one of the basic things that we've said in this law was the basis of a valid 5th. In order to be a commission, based on this law, as the Secretary of State said in response, we'll cut to 2.5 years, so if we were 5 years old, and we cut to 2.5 years. My people don't have a magic wand and no one can even be naive to think that it's a piece of work and that it's possible to do it quickly, but somehow it seems to me that it would, if it were polite and it was elemental that we had it in terms of the law, but what it is. Let’s see all those problems that colleagues pointed to and remain as problems. The colleagues pointed to the option a lot of them said about the problem of transferring to municipalities that the municipalities would not have the capacity and the rest. Now I to you all and after, I after, even though there are fewer and less of us here, but whatever I think from this pay phone, I always need to stress what's important. That's where we have to decide what we want. One case I'm kind of talking about is some things are centralized, when some things are centralized then we'll come from this pay phone and say it's not good to centralize, it's good to decentralisation, it's good to go to municipalities and cities. Then we have another variant, then we move it to municipalities and cities, then from this pay phone we're also saying no, it's not good that the municipalities and cities, the municipalities don't have the capacity, they don't have the possibility, they don't have this, they don't have what we want, what we really want? As we will, if we want them to have the possibility that the municipalities for certain things are being capacitated, have the possibility and some other things, have the possibility to use something else on some things, we just need to know what we want. I can say clearly from this pay phone that I will advocate decentralisation because if we want to have so much and we need to know that not all municipalities can have everything. There was one law which, therefore, I am part of the mains of my working life except that my own is kind of basic to me, my theme of spatial planning among other city development is what my basic, basic commitment is, but I was in executive power. And I know what it means to be in executive power. I know what it means to make decisions. I know what it means and it means when someone has to come up with something and they have to give something. So, at one point when we were passing certain laws, I said that for certain jobs, they couldn't be united at all because one municipality like itself had not enough capacity, and I prescribed it in law, so that was, I prescribed it, so it was a proposal, the council brought in that for certain jobs you could hire one employee who was then and what was allowed to do jobs for 3 or 4 municipalities. So we just need to know what we want. So, if we want a commission, I had a feeling that through the debate we all concluded that we would. Somehow I had a feeling that the debate of everyone was going in that direction that sort of demented that it wouldn't lead to any leaps. The debate went to everyone that we must make sure that Croatia differs with different problems. One problem has Slavonia, one problem has this northern Croatia and everything else, one problem has this central Croatia, and I would say Croatia by the sea from the same to Dubrovnik-Neretva County has the same other type of problem and another type and therefore the law must be one, but the law gives, there are opportunities and other things. So we just need to know what we want. Do we want a commission? We do. Do we want the unsuspecting land to come to a purpose? We do. Do we want these deadlines to really be shortened and the processes to be in some decent times, whether that's 2.5 years for me to say about it from this pay phone? 2.5 years you're full, small or medium without seeing all the aspects and all the hodograms that it is, but if it's 2.5 years if you haven't done anything in 30 years, and now you'll be able to do something in 2.5 years, so we've made some step. So these are some things we should have through this law. What's crucial to me is always the key to making sure there's a basic will to conduct. If there's a basic will to perform, that's what if you don't do something, you'll find 22 reasons why you shouldn't do something, and if you want to do something, you'll find one reason that's crucial to them. So what I am from this law and what we can't actually read is this, that energy, that's the goal of really after a certain time having the result of that commission. So, that will to implement, and from this law, all those tools that should be they show that you still have the legislator and the Ministry of Agriculture, you know that cat that hunts its own tail, I'm afraid it's still like a cat that hunts its own tail, and the debate in the first reading that was and which was very constructive and opened up a series of problems like that village is worse, and the grandmother is combing. We are discussing it here, and the ministry is simply not good, it will not be an adequate effect. And which means catastre and granite about it, I'll discuss it in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101466	Thank you. We move to individual debates, first Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, gone, lost his right. The second is Mrs Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101467	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, at the end or at the beginning, I'm going to repeat a few things that I think are extremely important. First of all, the basics are not something that is done every 30 years because it means quality space management. So like fellow Shashin said, it's not just a circle, but there are roads and certain buildings and channels in meaning it's really quality space management. And as my colleague Dark Taritash said before me, the fact is that no one is against it. No reasonable man who thinks well of his country simply against it can be by nature of things, but we have to ask ourselves why we haven't done anything about it for 30 years and why it hasn't bothered anyone in these 30 years, and now at the speed of light. When we first read this law, recently, and it was a truly quality debate, there were many quality proposals both by the opposition and by representatives of the ruling majority. And I'm really surprised why the ministry is now taking a stand it refuses, refuses, refuses, cannot, cannot, can't, can't, isn't respected. For what? There were quality suggestions, the debate was very good. It turns out that really this law has to be passed here as it is. When we're talking, and then there's really a question of why this article, this article, this article, should be, should it, if you don't really respect us here, definitely, and then we need to look back on agriculture, on the state, on the food security that is more important today than ever. We see that we all talk about it and that's where we come into what I talked about and on behalf of the club, and that's the PPP. So the common agricultural policy as much as what the CAP is asking of us and our farmers is currently meaningful and why Croatia has to take all of this unspeakably, and we see that some countries say that it simply doesn't have to go like that because today, the country's food security is what is crucial. And when the minister says that we have no instruments to stop our farmers from taking everything out after harvesting, then we really have to ask ourselves, so where are we, what are we? We have both wheat and corn, we have far more than we really need but it can happen to us if the price is good and the price is extremely high these days that our farmers, after harvesting, everything goes to Italy and where we need it and that we do not have enough for our residents in the end. That's what's key. The second is a moratorium that stands out for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners who stand out next year. And I'm not really satisfied with that answer that the state will have the right to buy, because today the state doesn't manage everything it owns the way a sovereign state shouldn't manage and that's the fact. So, in every crisis of every European Union country, we have seen it in the pandemic best behave as it is best for that country, stop thinking about some general European interest. But Croatia listens unspeakably to everything the European Union says and then the Minister answers – if by the rules of the European Union we know we must not ban the export of wheat and corn. In these circumstances, pay the fine. What's the problem? Why does the European Union have to listen unspeakably? Pay the fine. If other countries can, so can we. And I am really not satisfied with the fact that the Croatian state will buy out agricultural land because this is often used by the European Union Ministry for an excuse for absolutely everything and forgets the national particular interests that must be the priority of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101468	Thank you. The first replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101469	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, so we all remember lively the debate that was at the first reading of this Law. And when you look at the explanation so that all the material you see is that regardless and the ruling were making remarks and we were making remarks, that ease that the Ministry of stubbornly I would say these remarks are not important things that ring my alarm. Well, it's not true, and it's impossible that we all missed "all football" that we didn't understand the law, that we didn't understand why the promoter was going that way, that we didn't understand anything. I'd say that we understood, that we pointed to some things and instead of making that one tiny effort to say the check there's little there in the remarks something that might result in a better result. They didn’t even have to make an observation. But that lightness of that rejection is actually a bell at the alarm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101470	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101471	Thank you for asking me, colleague Dark Taritash. I would call it the unbearable ease of rejection and you've quite politely expressed yourself. You said they were stubborn. I used a rougher expression and I said they were arrogant. I find it arrogant, and it only leads me to the fact and to one conclusion that is simply imposed, which is that this law must be adopted as soon as possible, and this leads us to this European Union and what the European Union is looking for as something that is not allowed and that it must be so. Listen if the average price of hectares in Croatia is among the lowest in the European Union, and points out the moratorium for shopping, for sale to foreigners next year so it should not be, it should be very easy to agree two and two. When does our country go then where are we? Well, now it's already been bought by foreigners and Hungarians by Baranja and...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101472	Thank you. And so on. Mr. Pavić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101473	Respected MPs and you have drawn attention to the fact that the government has actually rejected all our proposals for smart proposals. All that we have drawn attention to is that the problems in this law have not been accepted, and then they reject in one part the fact that there is no change in the amount or area to be processed, but that the areas will eventually be processed more economically. Might be less cost when these surfaces are processed? On the other hand, they didn't do anything at all, but nothing to present it to everyone else that they understand what's really waiting for us. Don't forget, I also wanted to draw your attention to the fact that you are coming from the county where large agricultural areas are and are currently being sold to outsiders who got citizenship in Croatia two, three or five years ago and they are now buying it for who knows how much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101474	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101475	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic. Here's thanks to your replica I'll continue. So, the Hungarians buy both natural and legal persons, so you have a founding firm here and then you have no more problems. Agricultural land in Baranja and the larger the plot, the higher the price. In Vukovar-Srijem County and Osijek-Baranja, too, those who have dual citizenship and from neighbouring Serbia are also facts, and we see now how much agricultural land and this unpolluted agricultural land are essential for food security and no country means in the world looks at agriculture as just agriculture and energy such as strategic areas where the state has to take care that we are self-sufficient. It's crucial and we see now in situations like this how important it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101476	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101477	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, I will continue to mention at the previous presentation how many proposals, comments, some overthinks the government has refused, and I dare say that this proves not just one unbearable ease of existence and indifference, I dare say that this is actually a fear of thinking because the remarks and suggestions coming from opposition clubs spoke about the essence, they spoke about the model by which the commission intends to implement itself, and precisely for this kind of proposal and comment the government had little hearing. It is indeed indisputable that cohesion is one process which is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia because it enables more efficient agricultural production and better exploitation of agricultural areas and parcels. The idea should be to carry out such a procedure in a particular urgency, however, if we put urgency on one hand as one of the principles of carrying out a commission, and on the other hand, we come up with a procedure that will deny this urgency completely, then we may not even be aware of what it really means and how it should be established. From the first to the second reading, it's been about a month, a month. That means this law breaks over your knee. This means that we are bringing it in for formal reasons so that we can report it to the European Commission, that we can say here we have established this famous electronic system x and for that we will withdraw some financial resources. However, there will be no commissions in implementation. Our club will submit a whole series of amendments to this law. We know that they will not be adopted, but even if they adopt, I'm not sure how much it will help because this law is essentially irreparable, irreparable. The basic problem is in this model in which, at the institution level, it gives the local self-government units the right to be the ones to carry out all these complicated and complicated procedures. We are aware that one of the problems burdening the Republic of Croatia is excessive territorial fragmentation. We are also aware of the fact that agricultural areas that should be encircled through the cohesion are often not in line with the boundaries of certain local self-governments and individual municipalities. And we're already going to get to the first problem, not to mention now whether all units of local self-government have any administrative capacity needed to form their own committees. I'm talking about when and when we get into such a process that the interests of the two neighbouring municipalities will very often be cut off by each other. And now imagine two municipal commissioners each of whom would like to be the bearer, of which everyone would like to form their own committee. And imagine all these great committees in all these unnecessarily many different municipalities of which none of them have any prior experience in the implementation of communicative procedures. It cannot rely on the previous practice of any other body, because such practices simply do not exist, according to the 2015 law, no commission was ever carried out and no fighting was carried out before 2015. So, people come to a completely unknown legal and administrative field, according to their evolution, it is not such a profession that they necessarily need to know something about cohesion, and the conflict is intruding into the constitutional rights of ownership and other real rights. And we're not able to separate what's a job profession from a job you should be doing and making decisions at some political level. We've packed it all in one body that we call the commission, and neither the commission is the only one at the country's level, but it's going to form oxy times as many interested municipalities as we have. The composition of these commissions is strange to the beak. In it we have some representatives of ministry employees, then we have those who come from the ranks of judges, and from the ranks of state officials of the geodetic profession, and they'll be carrying out what, some kind of fictional paraprocea. So that's how we complicated the procedure instead of being to streamline the public administration and form a professional, professional body for the implementation of the commission. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101478	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101479	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Oreskovic, perhaps just one, two things that matter to the Croatian public. Today, a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture was held where we voted on this bill. Of the nine present board members, 8 were for and 1 was abstentioned. So I don't see why so much negativity about this whole thing right now. - I think a piece of work is a good thing. Maybe some things still need to be done. 20 days ago we were discussing, in the first reading of this, and I think it's wrong for this rhetoric that units of local self-government were left there on the shooting range, that they don't have enough administrative and other capacities, I don't think so, it's not. I speak at least from the perspective of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. After all, the commission has seven members and I think that, in part and even more, it will be easier for them to do this process on their own, in their own space.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101480	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101481	In the Committee on Agriculture, as well as most other parliamentary committees, HDZ has a majority. As far as Slavonian municipalities are concerned, given how much Slavonia has been evicted, I wonder if there is anyone out of the HDZ ranks there. And when I'm talking about the essence of this law, I'm talking about the need to form a professional professional professional body at the level of the state that will deal with the issues of cohesion, not to form hundreds of committees at the level of each individual municipality. That's where we're going to have unequal court practice, that's where we're going to have political bickering, and that's where we're going to have everything but the word of the profession. My idea, my vision of Croatia is that it has an effective, efficient, administrative system in which professionals have the main word. Politics can determine direction and there will also be an opposition to tell you that cohesion is the process that Croatia needs. But how the commission will be implemented will be in the hands of those who know more about administrative and legal issues than an average politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101482	Mrs. Ivana Posavec The guilty is now our turn. Thank you very much for... Here you go, Mrs. Guilty. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101483	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to continue right where colleague Oreshkovic stopped, and it is on the fact that no one in this country is likely to be out of opposition or out of position will be against the commission. Maybe it's a massage and a last spring that can help Croatian agriculture stand on their backs? Maybe that's exactly what hasn't been spent in Croatia for years, but what, unfortunately, according to our legal frameworks, has proved to be impertinent? So, since this 2015 law, unfortunately, we have to face the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have failed to carry out even the pilot of the project of cohesion, let alone the commission to live. I would like to point out several possible problems that can be opened here through this individual debate. So all of us who come from rural areas, all of us who at some stage of our lives have dealt with agricultural land or conducted competitions through units of local self-government about the availability of state, or municipal or urban agricultural land know how many problems our farmers face in everyday life I will say under quotes fighting for agricultural land, fighting among ourselves. Unfortunately, we often have in every unit of local self-government a series of conflicts among our farmers because they unfortunately have to compete for the same piece of land, and this same piece of land means their lives to them and their family. So I would like all of us together to find a way in which this very agricultural land, which is largely burdened with what is owned by a relationship, which is largely blocked and untapped, which is very necessary for us to really function in our farmers, but that we respect everything that the Republic of Croatia must respect and that is that agriculture in Slavonia cannot be equal to agriculture in the Neretva valley. So the principles of cohesion can't be equal and they have to be even. That's what colleague Oreshkovic tried to say. If we're going to bring down units of local self-government to carry out the commission process, we're going to produce a series or 555 new problems. So, I think the composition is an extremely important and difficult process. He may be the most complex of all these processes we've tried in agriculture so far through so-called. the reform procedures must be covered by the state level. They need to know what the principles are, what the principles are, and they must primarily listen to the profession. And what kind of waist? I'm not going to say that you have to listen to the geodetic profession because this really isn't the key law to the geodetic profession. This is a law in which those professions arising from agricultural production must be listened and which will tell what surfaces with which mechanisms they can maximum give to Croatia, and this must say the profession why everyone, we are full of mouths from first to last here in Parliament or in the Croatian public, must be self-sufficient. We must produce enough so that Croatia does not depend on agricultural production, food... And now it's turned out. [[You don't understand.]] That's what we'd have to be, and that's what we could actually be. So I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues a question for all of us. The whole world, the whole of Europe, everybody can do it. Why can't Croatia do that? Can't Croatia because it's agricultural land, and that might be the hardest line I'm going to say here today, become a promotional coin in a political sense? Do farm land relations at local level choose leaders? Do local leaders have too much influence on the choice of who and under what conditions does land get? And remember what our minister said a few days ago, she said that Croatia is full of irregularities when we talk about land and land allocation in these competitions. So, the commission yes, the green light for each competition, or for any legal framework that will lead to a healthy commission. But I stress healthy co-operations, not new problems that neither Croatia nor Croatian farmers need at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101484	The first replica, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101485	Dear fellow Posavec You are guilty if I am not mistaken you were in the position of the same thing to propose as you are today. Then you didn't blame the politicians, but... Now position yours. [[You don't understand.]] You're Social Democrats now if I'm not wrong about the position of the opposition you're from. Here's the thing I want to ask you to tell me the context of the price of food and land. Well, maybe here's a little help. In one Canada, the average farmer has 100 hectares of land, and in Croatia only 6.7 said the Secretary of State of Hectares of Land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101486	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101487	You won't get me on thin ice, not even with this replica of yours. So, I haven't been able to suggest anything, nor participate in it. But I was able to run a local self-government unit, and when I found a contest in that unit of local self-government that was conducted not in accordance with the law, I annulled it no matter what anger and indignation caused my back. But I thought we had to stick to the letters of the law and how it's best to implement it. As for the price you may have been in Turkey, you may have been in some of our neighbouring countries where, but literally from the plane, you will be able to assess what the country is dealing with, which is what farmers do, and when you see untransparent areas of unprocessable land but greenhouses then you know where the vegetables are grown, you know where the orchards are, you know where the war areas are, you know where the livestock is. With such a policy, we will lead to a reduction in prices and sustainability of production, but not only if we are determined, there must be a membership, but unconditional membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101488	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101489	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have touched one topic that is quite challenging and opens up a whole series of other issues. The moment we landed on JLS and the distribution of agricultural land, there was a problem, which is that the vast majority of the commissioners, especially in Slavonia, are also engaged in agricultural production. Now, here while we were sitting down, my colleague Sacic and I, then we had a little comment if you want to fight the village into a piece of food, and now that you're going to be dealing with agricultural production with the distribution of agricultural land, it seems to me that we've opened up one of Pandora's little stronger boxes, so here's my clear request for your opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101490	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101491	That colleagues what you are opening is perhaps a question of conflict of interest, is a question of conflict of interest in JLS which really has too much in the Republic of Croatia and which leads to that delicacy. We often talk about the membership that colleagues here have talked about that will cross the administrative borders of JLS and then at some point the question of who is stronger, who is in which position, who is more politically powerful to pass his proposals or his opportunities. We are also aware that in small JLS, and these are the most in the Republic of Croatia, we have few people who, without professional farming or local affairs, can deal with politics and, of course, that these influences are intertwined and that's the fear I'm trying to emphasize here. The question is how much of this law will be enforceable, as evidence that since 2015 we have not even managed to implement the pilot of the project of communication, is a series of reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101492	Thank you. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101493	Dear colleagues, every step forward I always say that is good, better to go ahead, at least 2 cm than backwards. But I also see certain difficulties here, so please comment. How could it be possible to link the story of the conflict to the reviving of the strategy of our villages that are many devastation, many of them under quotes are dead and how to increase self-sufficiency, we are about 62% vegetables, and we are at 50% below each level within the EU, so here is how you look at this issue and what should the Croatian state do to make it stronger towards self-sufficiency, and what should we do to explain to people how it is really good to produce and work in the country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101494	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101495	Thank you. We should primarily not run away from the fact that work is something that is good, that working on a country in a farm is something that is most valuable and that we should value these farmers and that what they 24 hours 7 days and 12 months a year are left to their agricultural production. Now, if we're talking about Croatia's resources, then in one row, these are the people you mentioned that we're losing, and that's the saddest story that actually our main resource that can drive us into the depopulation is losing and we're losing it because it's connected to this other resource with the country. So while we don't have control over land availability, while we don't have the conditions to feed our people until we can connect these two resources and pull the maximum from them. So, I think we should turn the paradigm around, that we should go back to, for example, giving the Zagreb County ring fruits and vegetables to the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101496	- Mrs. Crescent. Fifth replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Posavec Krivec, when you remember the periods when you were the head of the Municipality of Križ, you will surely remember numerous situations when state projects were being implemented or state-owned companies needed to implement something that they still came to you in the municipality because they could not have done so without the municipality, so the municipalities and cities have their place and their role, and it seems to me that their role should not be neglected in this project of cohesion. Through your debate, you have kind of polluted that the responsibilities that municipalities and cities receive through this law think they are too high, but is it possible to carry out the commission from the previous experiences that we have and the pilot projects that you mentioned if we do not include municipalities and cities that have a view of the situation on the ground, of course, taking into account all the remarks you made on the management of agricultural land?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101498	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101499	No, thank you, Comrade Mariana, for this question, because it will allow me to perhaps explain something that may have been left unsaid. I do not think that it should exclude local and even regional self-government units from this process, but I do not think that they can have all the burden and all the weight that they can not be on, they must have a defaulted share in the process of co-operation, they must have it because in their area of land that will be subject to membership, in their area of interest possible farmers, they are certainly most interested in participating, but I am asking the question, is it possible to exclude the profession and turn it all into certain technical processes and by these technical processes to assign JLS? I think it would be much more optimal for the process to go from a higher level, that it be uniform for the whole of Croatia because you have well noticed there is no process of national interest of any infrastructure that must be implemented at JLS if it does not agree at all levels. And once again from this pay phone, thank you for being actors to realize a series of projects in my term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101500	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101501	Thank you, fellow Members, for saying that there is no national interest that can be carried out in such a way that it is delegated to the local level. And in the context of possible conflicts of interest, which will become more and more frequent, I will mention only one small detail. In these 7 members of the Commission for the Implementation of COMASION, which will be formed at the level of some of the municipalities, among other things one member will be a representative of the owner of agricultural land. This one member will, by the logic of things, be in a privileged position, in a privileged position to protect his interests that are in relation to other co-owners in possible confrontation and as soon as such a model and such composition of the body that should be applied by the Commission, we have an inefficient system in which there is no theoretical possibility of establishing a uniform practice in which that national target is achieved from the top down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101502	Thank you. I have to give you my word that's the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101503	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry, we've turned this into a little dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101504	And I'm sorry he's such a Rules of Procedure, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101505	Yes, colleague Oreshkovic, you're absolutely right. That's why I've been trying to pull the parallel all the time between the process that follows this law and the process that we already have, stalking under quotes on the ground and making available to state agricultural land. And this state agricultural land had a given form in which competitions should be conducted by the unit of local self-government and there were defined commissions and there were defined persons who had to be inside, and we know how many problems came out of these procedures. That's what I'm pointing at here. I am afraid that such an image will be translated into this Law and that it will be impossible to keep the interests of interested participants in the local units on the side. These local units for the implementation of such important circular and large projects depend ultimately on the future of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101506	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101507	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've brought out a lot of important things. We all agree that a fair and effective commission would be necessary, but you pointed out that I would like to underline the inequality in the conduct in which we are together afraid that this will all appear together in practice, but it was not in the very beginning that there was uniformity. On the one hand, you had units like mine where there was a public call to show interest. On the other hand, you're reading a little bit on the Internet and you see that some people who would even be interested in composing have no idea. So they're not well-informed enough. On the other hand, the problem of fragmentation, the poor infrastructure of agricultural land, unresolved ownership relations, the lack of harmonisation of land books, many people who own land so they're not at all interested in the commission, I think. How do you even motivate all these people to move into a quality process of cohesion here's what you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101508	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101509	Thank you. In addition to all the colleagues Marić you listed, we are still somehow forgetting that expensive self-execution exercise. After all, this is an extraordinary and expensive process. And the question arises how much for individual units of local self-government and foreclosure can be done to lead to full information from the population and stakeholders? So, in my opinion, that the commission would be successful, she must also have a segment of education. It must have direct address to our farmers, an explanation of what the law is passed, how it will be implemented, what they are expected to do, what they must prepare. We saw that when we prepared farmers to attract European Union funds, we had a much, much greater success when they were ready when they were expected. I'm afraid if we don't prepare farmers for the process, we won't have good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101510	Time. Thank you. And Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Shashin. Excuse me. Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101511	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues, if I understand you correctly, you said you were the head of the local self-government unit and I'm really surprised you're talking like this now... You understand. [[You don't understand.]] You probably remember, I don't know what mandate you were in, Minister Jakovina, at a time when centralization was maximum, when the availability of state land was given to an absolutely centralized agency and when in Osijek there was a concrete 20th in the agency, in the outpost there and they were to make management or manage the land of all Slavonia and Baranja. You know what they did? Nothing. Zero, zero. And now that both you and Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic are in favour of centralization again, that the units of local self-government are excluded from the comcommissioning process can't really understand. Believe me, no one knows the situation better on the ground than the head of the local self-government unit. After all, they will not be alone; it will not be the chief who will carry out the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101512	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101513	Thank you, Vice President. You don't have to understand what you're saying because what you're saying I didn't even say. So, I didn't say that local self-government units should be excluded from the comcommissioning process. Moreover, on the replica of my colleague, Petir, I have made it clear that they must be involved, but that the majority of the burden of compromise cannot be placed on them, because that is exactly how we will achieve this process not to be transparent, not to be uniform, not to be as fast. And when you're trying to impose on me some of the ministers from the former governments that I'm supposed to be showing myself about here, I'm going to completely ignore that question and put aside, because I've been very clear about some things. But I will remind you that the main leadership of the agricultural policy resolution in the Republic of Croatia has been implementing the HDZ from its draft to the present day. Only in two coalition governments were others. In one segment, someone from the then strongest ruling party. But in that second segment, the representatives of the HSS. So, if someone is responsible for the state of agriculture in Croatia, it is mostly HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101514	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101515	Dear MPs, it is increasingly impossible to get the impression that laws are being sent before us that are actually inconclusive. If one law is enforceable, another law that makes it impossible for us to implement it in the procedure. So why am I telling you this? We currently have in the second procedure of the Agricultural Land Act where Article 44 states: “Arable land outside the building area cannot be shared or formed by geodesic embosseds, less than 1 hectare, except in the case of the separation of agricultural land, in order to build infrastructure and other buildings that are regulated by a specific regulation... “ How will the work be done after... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101516	Thank you. Excuse me. Come back a few seconds, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101517	How will the commission be carried out, for example, in Zagorje, where the parcels are small, where the heirs after the father had a hectare and a half of the country 3 sons who deal with agriculture and want to round it up in some way? How is it that the Agricultural Law prevents this from happening afterwards?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101518	Okay. We made up for it. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101519	Dear colleague Pavic, the horizontal connection within our portfolio is not yet present. So here, since we're talking about strategy or national plan, then we're talking about that some projects, some documentation, strategic documentation should be linked together, that legal procedures should go with some of the same assumptions. However, the fact is that we are still here discussing laws that are not fully harmonised and which come out or spring some uncertainty in the very end in the implementation of one or the other or third law. When we speak of a history of land use in Zagorje, then yes, there, except that we will talk about establishing a border between these plots we will also talk about who has priority or who doesn't. I'm a little bit of a joke here on my own account as I am on yours, but what I said at the very beginning is not the same thing to be done in Slavonia, Zagorje or in the islands, in islands where owners in the second or third generation may be on the other side of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101520	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now Mr. Zekanovic will come in advance who took off his mask 20 minutes ago so he doesn't have to come here. Here you go. Here you go, then you'll put it on later. At least we were vaccinated, right? Oh, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101521	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about a famous commission. I believe a lot of people remember elementary school 5th, 6th grade geography classes is mentioned as a term. Although quite vaguely here today we have the opportunity after a decade to pass at least in my case from this primary schooling and to work on the Law of Cooperation that is necessary and extremely important. I've also tried to figure out in the replica how important it is to get a couple of numbers to a little bit and all those who follow this session realize what it's about. The average OPGs and the average farmer in Croatia today have 17 particles, 17. So he deals with agriculture at 17 locations. It's kind of a goal, as far as I understand it, for the Ministry to come to 8, 9 particles on average per farmer with that being a lot. We can't expect to have a farm like Canadian farmers or farmers here just before in the recently attacked Ukraine that has in one piece 10 hectares, but we have to strive to round up as much as possible. Just to figure out what's going on, let's see a little comparison between countries in the environment. According to the secretary of state, Croatia has 6.7 hectares per OPG, per farmer. Something worse than us are Bulgarians with about 5 hectares. The Slovenians are similar. Austrians who, regardless of their majority in the Alpine area, have as much as 19 hectares per farmer. The Germans are 44 hectares, and here I mentioned before Canada, Canada has over 100 hectares per farmer with that except for 100 hectares very common, I'll even say the most common is the round property. And now that we are talking about food collection, one of the important reasons why we in Croatia pay less often and more expensive food than it is paid by residents of other European Union countries is precisely the exceptional waste and expensive costs of agricultural production due to the fragmentation of property. So this law is really an extremely important law. But here, as counterpart Pavić pointed out, not only him but also some other colleagues, he did note that there is a prerequisite in the implementation of this Law that is not resolved unfortunately, and it is about resolving property relations. It's not about your ministry, but here's some inter-resoring question if we don't solve property relations and we're not on the right track, I don't see, there's good moves but there's no real dynamics going on, I don't think that the whole co-operation itself is going to be disabled, difficult, and that this law, as good as it's good and good, has good intentions, is not going to do what's expected of it. So let this place be one message to you in the Ministry, which is to encourage the competent ministry to find a model to finally start in the agricultural area, meaning in the rural space to arrange land books or property that is not literally taken care of by Francis Joseph, literally by Francis Joseph. And lastly, I'd take advantage of the opportunity even though it's not a specific topic, but here's the thing about your ministry, I pointed it out and last time here in the debate, and I'll repeat it, so please try to solve it. I was already talking about the measures or competitions of the LAG. A specific case I'll tell Sibenik. If you're not a resident of an OPG settlement, you can't even compete on the LAG measure. In the specific case in Sibenik there is a village called Donja Polje which is not, so the settlement and owner of the OPG in Donji Polje cannot compete in the LAG competition because its address is in Sibenik, its residence. So the banal thing, but here's something that I think is not about the legal problem but about the problem of the concept of competition itself, so in that sense, here's the thing. There are people who deal with agriculture, live in another settlement, who cannot compete with these measures because they do not have a place of residence and a place of residence in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101522	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101523	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Zekanovic, you were talking about the average size of the agricultural economy in the Member States, in Croatia it is about 10 hectares with more than 70% of the economies being even less than 5 hectares, of course it is also problematic from the productivity aspect, but also the success of agricultural production, and then, finally, food production, which is why people and agriculture are mainly concerned. I'm interested in how you look at, the provisions that the ministry has announced in the implementation of the Cooperation Act where they plan through a public tender to choose JLS which will help implement the commission process, but in such a way as to dissipate public procurement and thus enable pre-financing because we know that it is mainly the biggest problem for municipalities and cities that do not have enough resources and in this case the ministry could help them through such a single process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101524	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101525	Comrade Petyr, thank you for asking. As for the average surface, here's what I've been looking for on the Internet, I've found a 5.1, the secretary of state has corrected it to 6.7, but more methodologies, it's got some methodology and 10 acres, okay, but we're worse than the EU, that's what I was going to say. There are several models, one model is that these public procurements and tenders are called directly by the ministry as in some cases, in this case they come down to local self-government. I really don't know if this is the best way, to be honest with you, I don't know if it's the best way, the question is how many local self-governments especially small local self-governments will be able to conduct these purchases, depending on how much they're going to be, I'm afraid there might be a problem. On the other hand, it is easier for the state to burden local self-government, otherwise the ministry needs to be burdened, and there are people involved in the big business anyway. Let's try it this way, let's see how the local self-government does it, maybe it'll be a good model, maybe with its capacity that's often modest to manage this kind of procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101526	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic. Mr. Miletic is on his way now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101527	Dear Vice President, Mr. Radin, respected colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I said that if you remember seeing colleagues here from morning to evening we were practically discussing the subject all day and it was necessary to discuss this topic because I personally believe that this is the main topic of the next 20 years, so with our water, water conservation, with energy and food I see no more important topic than keeping the borders is whether or not it started, but therefore really for the next 20 years. This topic will certainly be very, very important to us. I've been thinking while I've been listening to my colleagues here discuss whether our kids today even know how I worked at school for 16 years, 14 years. in high school, at city school, then many times it happened to me that children literally had no idea that, I can't just say what a sheep looks like right now, but educated kids who went to high school were not just in the field, they had no idea how hard it was actually to work in the field, then I always remembered my late age they called him the Black Marco from Stankovac, who what in 3 was up in 3 and a half was going to dig fields for others so that in 7 could be on his field whether, it was extremely demanding and difficult. My father, who only has about 2,000 square feet of land in Kastava, is also dedicated all day to the country so that he can get some fruit around it. So Croatia should invest in agriculture. What concerns me personally and us at the Mosta Club, so, these millions, we can say that through subsidies should have very strong controls, fair inspections and a clear strategy for the entire agriculture. I spoke here in the replica of my colleague Croatia according to the data in fruit production and vegetables has huge potential given its low self-sufficiency, and we are currently producing vegetables of about 63-64%, and fruit production at only 50%, and there we can now be critical, so pounding each other's malts. I prefer that we try to motivate each other, of course there is your biggest commitment, which is whether we can do everything we can to increase the story of Croatia's self-sufficiency. I also don't like it when on my right is shot to the left, so the left shoots to the right then we between which bridge some bridge is whether if we can bridge some stories, but in 2009, there's still that famous strategic paper on rounding agricultural land, we haven't celebrated, so in 2015, too, so Jacob's pre-election law was passed, we remember the compositions, we haven't even celebrated there, and my colleagues spoke before me so there's a string of difficulties. We have the ability of local self-government, we mustn't burden it with additionally small local self-government because they will be executed, we have legal property relations that aren't completely solved, we have this Double Tax Act and everything else. So, I wouldn't want you to get me wrong, I'd be happy if this third happiness worked out, I love it when Croatia succeeds, so I love this one the other day on a round table about the sport of Croatian Social Democrats, and we at the club prepared in a literal sense, I'm talking about sports, I wanted to suggest some stories, I get a call from Croatian Social Democrats, organized a great round table whether or not I was happy. Why? So because everything that's good, wherever it comes from, if it's good, if a man's too reasonable and if he's not possessively jealous and there's no other disturbance in his mind, he'll be happy because we're going forward because something good is going on. So I appeal once again, our villages are crucial, crucial to the survival of our homeland, for the story of self-sufficiency, and we should think about projects and how to settle displaced areas so that we don't get huge agricultural areas that we can arrange, but they will be released, without man anything, man is the most important thing. So let's guard the water, work on energy and work on our self-sufficiency. It's the key to everything. Croatia has countries to feed according to data Dr.sc. The Kutnjak Croatia from the Faculty of Agronomia more than 11 million people a year, so let's do everything we can to at least part of it and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101528	And to you, don't go away is Mr. Lenart who's referred to these things has a question to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101529	Thank you, dear Vice President. This fellow Miletic, so here you mentioned the matter of support, support control and whether there are any doubts about whether they are shared properly. Supports, i.e. direct payments coming from the EU believe me that they are probably well controlled at least as far as small and medium-sized family farms are concerned. For the big ones I don't know because they're either companies or some kind of crafts that are a little harder to control when they're big and strong and believe me that because of the AGRONET and ARCOD systems, you can simply see what's sown today, where it's sown, whether there's overlaps or if someone's not, and I don't think there's any need to suspect. I have more doubts about the European funds in various measures that are shared and competitions work towards strictly certain groups, and the largest group at least wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101530	Thank you. Answer. Mr. Zekanovic's mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101531	I'll answer the question even though it's not, so you know when I stayed in shock. I came to Bosnia in those camps, went to see these refugees a little bit, and I wanted to form my own opinion is whether to form an opinion on the media but to see what was going on. And they tell me down people get me from the EU says one 60 thousand euros, I say where people live, no windows, old buildings completely without roofs, destroyed, rain, says and went hunting brothers, but we got money but they're gone. So, of course, that Croatia is much more orderly in every way so that someone doesn't get me wrong, but I really think it's very important given our experience from our country over the past decades that it's very important that the control system works and that the money trail, we know that when I'm talking about it can't go away. It's all coming out in the end, and it's all gonna end up being found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101532	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, directors, MPs and MPs, so I must say that I am glad as many and more MPs discuss agricultural issues, although my colleague Ivanovic, who is with me in the Committee on Agriculture, often counts the number of sessions I have called, I think that we are still acting on awareness that agriculture is extremely important and that farmers besides the food products are both real guardians and Croatian space, and that is why we should support them. Agriculture should not always be observed through the support paid for because while the Croatian peasant lives in the countryside, bread is burned in the oven, biodiversity is preserved, real life takes place. And all that money they get, and it's not God knows how big money they deserve. If there are any malfeasances of course they should be monitored, that it should be sanctioned, but there is no need to glue labels on Croatian peasants that this Croatian peasant does not deserve because people in the country have also preserved faith, language, costume, culture, the identity of the Croatian people, which we are proud of, and we often boast as a member of the EU and should therefore speak with due respect of them. He complains to the ministry when he's making the law for a long time, objecting to the ministry when he slowly drafts the law, when he makes it fast, it seems that you're never right in the ministry, and you're at peace with that role, but I think it's a good thing that we've pushed this Law on COMMASATION into a shorter time than we're used to accepting laws from your ranks for the reason that the National Programme of Recovery and Resistance, the high resources that are provided and the necessary need to be implemented in the field. Because the fact that we're talking about it all day long is that our agricultural economies are extremely small, there's an average of 10 hectares, and almost 70% of them are less than 5 hectares. This is really problematic in the long run when we talk about productivity and when we talk about food production, but also about what a person needs to earn. So who deals with agriculture should be able to live with their work with dignity, which is not possible in such proportions when compared to other Member States. And if we start comparing ourselves with other Member States then I will remind you that recently hot under the hammer came out Eurostat's report on the price of agricultural land, for example one hectare in the Netherlands is worth of gold, nearly 70,000 euros while in Croatia, one hectare of land is the cheapest in the entire EU and is 3,440 euros. If we add this to the fact that from next year, the possibility of selling agricultural land to foreigners begins, then I would say that we need to get serious and make our discussions more constructive than they have ever been, sometimes on the verge of politics when we talk about agriculture and say that both the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on COMMASATION are the preconditions to bring things to the right track. And the real track would be to place as many surfaces as possible and to have as many agricultural areas as possible in the possession of Croatian farmers or Croatian peasants. The ministry has already issued a public call on the subject of the commission, 23 local self-government units have appeared, it has been a kind of screening to see at all what the interest is in and I think it's a good idea that when the real public tender is adopted, the ministry will take over this united public procurement because many local self-government units have no financial capacity to push ahead of funding. We talked about this several times, I'm glad to hear that sometimes you hear us and that you respect our suggestions and remarks because I think that's good, that's what discussions on the board are for, that service discussion at the plenary session, more heads are always smarter because we've kind of gotten into it before funding. I have warned of this when it comes to rural development measures, especially those measures for the recovery of agricultural holdings that were affected by the earthquake, because it is impossible to expect someone who has suffered from an earthquake to actually have their own resources or to be competitive with the bank or solvable and to be able to deprive of what is needed for recovery. So, here if what you told us on the board today is so plotted and if it will be taken in this direction literally before the financing for the implementation of the commission for local administration units and self-government I welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101534	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101535	Dear colleagues. Here's what you mentioned about the Law on Agricultural Land, you mentioned moratorium, it may not be so much on the subject, but here's the point of hearing your opinion in front of the board. Is there a possibility or which instruments are now available to us to protect ourselves from an uncontrollable purchase of land by all residents in the EU? Is it possible that by extending the moratorium or any other instrument we have available to protect Croatian agricultural land?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101536	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101537	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. Yes, it is an important topic and I am not sure that it will be possible to re-exploit the additional moratorium because other than what we have negotiated, which is a moratorium for seven years we have still received an extension of three years so that it seems to me that it would be too much to say now that we are able to get another moratorium, but we need to create an atmosphere and environment for the Croatian peasant to enter into the land of agricultural land through good legislation and through some measures that still need to be taken on the ground. The ministry proposed, through the Agricultural Land Act, the right to buy first all parcels, which would, of course, cause chaos and additional administrative collapses. Therefore, our Committee on Agriculture has proposed that this application of articles that are already worth selling state agricultural land to the Republic of Croatia, which means for continental Croatia 10 hectares, for Primorska Hrvatska one hectare, which would not be subject to the obligation of the first purchase of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101538	Thank you. Mr. Marin Miletić Chicken Pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101539	I've already gotten used to it, Vice President. Nobody calls a fellow Miletic a chicken, so now I don't know if it's discrimination... [[Intruder Radin: I know too many Miletics.]] Dear Representative Petyr. Here we could hear in the debate so far that some MPs, and also the leaders of the local self-government units called the Ministry of Agriculture for inaction and under the Law on Agricultural Land and criticising this proposed Law on COMMASATION. I ask you, as president of the Committee on Agriculture, to conduct a debate, but also to ask the Ministry of Agriculture for information, which of the units of local self-government that have a legal obligation, in accordance with Article. 90. The agricultural land law, which should have an employed agricultural director, does not comply with the agrotechnical measures that are currently in force, and I suppose future measures are foreseen?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101540	Thank you, Mr. Chicken. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101541	Thank you, Mr. Chicken. Today we mentioned you on the board, everyone remembers your presentation in the first reading where you showed the public what a complicated agricultural land looks like and what is not and what is the difference, so here's a thank you for that little help. I think the ministry has the data you're talking about, with the fact that I'd like to draw attention to the possibility of a day, that several units of local self-government have one agricultural director, and this specifically refers to smaller units of local self-government that are not able to employ their agricultural director because of their fiscal capacity. But here's the secretary of state, and the director, so if they have that information, it would certainly be good to have them delivered to us, as well as the information that local self-government units didn't call today for agricultural land tenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101542	Thank you. Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101543	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs. You mentioned the dignity of farmers and the respect that needs to be shown to the farmer, and that's what we all agree on here. I think we should talk openly and actually say what it is, and that's the fact that we had 2016. five pilot projects that have stalled and actually these farmers have been played, regardless of what numerous meetings and numerous presentations and numerous conversations have been held with these farmers, I don't think it's really fair for these people. How much do you think they'll be involved with those who had a pilot project in some championship about these pilot projects taking into account these existing municipalities, and how much do you think local self-governments are actually willing to carry out the commission this way as this law requires?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101544	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101545	Thank you fellow MPs for this replica. Yes, I think it is very important to bear witness over and over again that farmers should live their lives from their work, feed their families, educate their children, which unfortunately is not always the case. No one sees the fact that they don't have time to work, that they don't go to winters, or summers, especially those who do livestock, and that there should be a little more sensitivity to the subject, not because something was read in the paper and drummed up and stay alive. If I understand correctly, the representatives of the ministry plan after the Law on Cooperation has passed in HS and is published in the National Journal to issue a public call to which municipalities and cities interested in carrying out the membership will then, according to the criteria prescribed by law, be selected by those entering these 18 thousand hectares that can be financed from the NPOO and the state budget, so that I would conclude from this that all those who wish to participate must report to that competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101546	Thank you very much. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101547	Thank you. Dear Representative Petyr, I am speaking with considerable enthusiasm this morning and that I have mentioned a good presentation of colleagues from Novska, but I must say you are here in your speech talking about that it would have been too long then, that it is too short now and it is too short and such remarks and a lot of such remarks you seem to have easily rejected in your presentation. I was here with my colleagues later heard and you heard in the debate that people seemed rightly surprised that out of so many suggestions, but really nothing went through in this fast procedure. What we say most... I was told that the problem is that in Zagreb around Zagreb, these plots are less than hectares. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101548	Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101549	Thank you very much, colleague Matula. Maybe we didn't get along well, I said whatever the ministry did to some people wouldn't be good, some complain about making laws too long, some complain about making laws too slow. I said it was good that this law came this fast into the second reading because if we want to withdraw funds from the NPOO we have to implement reforms, the precondition for reform is to amend legislation, so the procedure is quite clear. When it comes to the Law on Agricultural Land, you are a member of our Committee and the article on which counterpart Pavić was called in his replica, you know that we as a committee have put an amendment to this article of the Agricultural Land Act, we unanimously adopted this amendment where we are just erasing unnecessary and excessive words from that article and we are allowing for the commission to be carried out on areas less than one hectare. It was a clumsy expression that we nom technicalally worked as a committee. Moreover, even on this law of objections that we have made on the board are generally accepted, so I really cannot criticise if someone accepts my remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101550	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101551	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Petyr, here's the clue that you said that no matter what the ministry does and when it makes it look like it's never good or never on time, so the application of the commission hasn't started with this ministry, nor with this state, the commission has been in our fields for over 200 years. conducts first and foremost by adjudicating large estates, and later it has changed throughout history according to both new knowledge and all that has contributed to the development of science. So today, when we know that cohesion is not only achieved by rounding up, which is essentially adventurous, so some mix these concepts, but also reduce productivity costs, it also increases the yield of different cultures from 20 to 50%, it creates preconditions for other agrotechnical measures, but what is important in Slavonia and melliorisation of land. So we're going to do all of this with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101552	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101553	Thank you, fellow Mažar, for the replica and for one more reminder of why the composition is important. It is also important for both channels and Polish roads to be arranged, to establish the necessary infrastructure, and it is absolutely certain that through this one process of rounding up agricultural land, we can enable farmers to make their agricultural production more productive, which means that their profits are ultimately greater and that our profits as a society can be greater in this regard. What we may not be able to talk about at all, at least I don't remember, and it should be noticed that it is important that we are also measured and moderate in these processes so as not to question the biodiversity that Croatia is very proud of, and the EU praises us in that part because these are processes that involve certain procedures and have an impact on the environment and that is why it needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101554	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101555	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petir, this invitation to tender has been sent by the Ministry of Agriculture in essence since 555 JLS reported on 23, of which 5 from the area of Osijek-Baranja County and I think a total of 10 counties, so some have not even shown interest, but that does not mean they are not interested. We must be aware that some of the commissions were carried out until the '90s and that there were municipalities and cities that arranged that part of the story. Therefore, when it comes to cohesion, I think it is necessary to clearly limit and say that it is not something that will be carried out in each JLS, so they have no capacity, they have nothing, it will be carried out where this need really exists, where there is a large agricultural production just to improve and to add value to these products becomes greater, and that is the goal of every, every farm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101556	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101557	Thank you very much. Col. Ivanovic, that according to the information provided by the ministry, 23 JLS made the first call, on the basis of which a state scan was made to keep the European Commission on track and to create the basis for a future public call, but also for public procurement. I think it is good that the ministry understands its role there and understands the role of JLS that it is aware that without them it would be difficult to implement this process of membership, but on the other hand it is also aware that JLS needs help in the implementation sense, but also in financial terms, so I welcome this ministry announcement that it will conduct a united public procurement and will allow pre-financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101558	Thank you. Mr. Shashin at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101559	Dear Mr. Vice-President, dear colleague Petir, here are the 58th session of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, indeed speaking about agriculture and the fact that finally Croatian agriculture has received problems from Croatian agriculture and has gained its rightful place in the Croatian Parliament, but also in the main ministry of the Croatian government. Croatian agriculture is one of the most frequently mentioned topics here, and I believe that this law is practically only part of a set of laws that should in some way improve the situation, the overall state of agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia. As you see this link means this law with the Agricultural Land Act, which is one of the most important laws in agriculture with the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices, and in order to do so as one whole, as a single set, could ultimately contribute to improving the situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101560	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101561	Thank you, colleague Shaslin, it is known that we as a people know everything about football and agriculture, and since recently I think about epidemiology we have also shown ourselves as experts, a little joke, but that is the fact that people like to talk a lot about these topics And they never go into the depths, like you said. [[Intruder: And strategy the same.]] Yeah, yeah, about everything. [[/Intruder and strategy the same.]] But the farming strategy actually kind of unites everything that you've stated. Of course, the fundamental resource for the development of Croatian agriculture is agricultural land, therefore, and ultimately according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is good for the general national interest, so we must deal with it and manage it in the right way. And that means that even those mistakes that have happened so far have to be corrected. The Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Compassion, the Law on the Facilitation of Irregular Commercial Practices, last week, we talked about the Law on pesticides and plant pests, so we had a whole set of laws where we wanted to fine-knit all of this in order to Help Croatian farmers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101562	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. Mr. Goran Ivanovic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101563	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director, here I will begin where Agent Shashin stopped and announce for tomorrow the 59th session of the Committee on Agriculture and indeed once again without any sarcasticity or any other remarks to say that the Committee on Agriculture is here at least as long as I am here, it will be two years soon, doing a good, good job. The Law on Cooperation is one part of this story, already mentioned here is the Law on Agricultural Land, which is the crown of a set of agricultural laws, but all laws are just laws. Production is what keeps us alive especially when such geopolitical disorders occur that have occurred with the war in Ukraine and some other things that happen. I will say that the last commission started or ended in 1990, started in 1987 in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, and was done on Saint Martin at the Mura and there is only there to make people understand what cohesion means. So they came from 25,000 plots to 4,000 plots. So from 25,000 parcels to 4,000, that's, that's basically what the commission needs to do. The differences that exist and which are a little scary for our people are that now the surfaces have been combined, and previously they have been communicated because the political commissioners have been working on that part of the commission and, of course, they've assigned a better country to themselves, they've taken some people, and that's the fear that the Croatian peasant has since the commission was partially woven and what happens in the late '60s or early '60s and late '60s. I'm not supposed to have the fear of communication, and we can't have the fear of association. These are two stories that significantly improve what we want in agriculture, which is added value, a more expensive agricultural product that the farmer will be able to sell. On the other hand, there will be no memberships in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, or wills, all units in the region of the Republic of Croatia may report, but some units of local self-government have already ordered it, arranged here and mentioned colleague Piletić, and I will mention him who has shown that he can. And somehow it seems to me that a little this morning has gone to the leaders of the local self-government from having to abolish most of the municipalities that they are not useful, that they should not, that I do not belong to that group of politicians, even more so I am the one who advocates a large number of local self-government units but in a way that may be arranged differently because if you are not a legal person, then you are something that doesn't exist. This is what we have today with local committees that are practically reduced to home committees. They don't decide anything, they don't have their cash registers, and they're often places with 1,000 and over 1,000 residents, and it's not fair. That's why we're losing a part of the village because these people are leaning on big cities, especially if two political options are involved in the work, if there's one political option in the local committee, and in the city council or municipal council, the other is causing problems. And I am so that more money will be withdrawn from the EU if we have more, more legal persons and I support this proposal. The reading was 20 days ago, so all of yours and our discussions are still very, very fresh. I have to say that here are some things that will only be seen on the Committee on Agriculture and fellow Vukas and colleagues Matula spoke affirmably of this law, regardless of what he may be hiding, which will only be seen in walking, but I would say that no law is written in stone and we can change it if he improves what is the desire of Croatian farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is that we have a richer village, a richer peasant and that Croatia is ultimately a country suitable for the lives of all Croats and Croats and all those who want to come to this beautiful and beautiful country called Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101564	Thank you, too. Mr. Shimičević's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101565	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, therefore more important is the commission from the commissioners, there we will agree, and we will clearly agree that this law goes in this direction to round the land, by rounding ourselves we will actually get a better benefit for production, there will certainly be less entry costs, and the goal in this, in this crisis time, and in the future we will have our own food, our own products that we will be able to place in our households, and since we are a tourist country then and our guests. From what I've seen we're going to invest over 150 million kunas in this, this complex system and I believe that's what we're going to do. So the assessment is that this would be done within 2 years or 3 years, so I'm asking you to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101566	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101567	Thank you very much. Yes, the whole process must be completed by '26, so now until the ministry adopts the law, until a public call to JLS begins. So, today agriculture differs significantly from agriculture that was 30, 40 and 50 years ago, today using machines that are quite different in nature and which require large, large areas, it is simply invaluable to have 6 or 7 parcels on 6 or 7 sides, some, some places, it is too much cost and drive not only tractors but also machines, not to talk about it when it comes to harvesting, when it comes to harvesting how important it is, these are today machines that hair at 20, 30, 40 hectares a day, so the transport itself from parcel to parcel lasts longer than it takes to harvesting that lot itself. Therefore, to encircle the land, but also to take care of what the lady is. The president said, and that's the biodiversity we can't lose, so if we lose, then we lose the battle for agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101568	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101569	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said you might need to amend the law, I think you'll really need to do the law, there's a lot of some kind of ambiguity and complicated procedures. Well, here's when you go watch the art. 5. There is a nice program for the integration of agricultural land which, of course, has not been passed yet, and then you go watch the art. 16.di says that the professional basis for the launch of the commission is an idea solution and that JLS or City of Zagreb on its cost must build this simple draft idea solution which again is not the content of this regulation, and then it goes to the decision of the commissator to make an idea solution, so it all goes to the ministry, to seek consent, etc. And in all this, JLS really must have some kind of generous financial resources. And now in the interpretations of why some remarks are not accepted says it so the ministry will co-finance something and will try to co-finance, and what if it won't, and many won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101570	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101571	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Maric, so I don't think it should be the subject of debate. It is clear in this law that this pre-financing will be and simply they would not be able to implement what we're talking about if someone hadn't pre-financed them in that sense. I think that, if it wasn't for the first time that there are good experiences, that certain local self-government leaders communicate well with each other, they're getting ready at the end, and if you're not able to see the list of these 23 JLS that we've received from the ministry as members of agriculture, and there's a clear view that these are exactly JLS that first see an opportunity to solve the problem they have on the other hand that they've already been preparing for this project and they've only been waiting for its legal adoption and I think it's going to go maybe even better than we all hope for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101572	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101573	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivanovic, talk about the unspeakable business of agriculture and agricultural production of course in these difficult circumstances in which we live is impossible and you come from Slavonia as I do, the seed is ongoing and we will produce grain more than our needs. That argument that we must not put any prohibitions in some way stands and bans exports, but if the Hungarians have introduced that right first by the state based on Article. 36. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which prescribes these exceptional circumstances in which certain prohibitions can be placed, I am interested in why Croatia does not benefit because we can really come into a situation that 10 days after harvesting our silos are empty and the fact is that we can take certain steps related to the functioning of the European common market, but the Minister assures us that we will not actually do this because we are now in solidarity, etc., should we not first be in solidarity with the inhabitants of the Republic, and only then with the EU as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101574	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101575	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I fall within the circle of those politicians who weigh the thesis "never say never," so what today may not be, tomorrow may be yes. We have another problem, Croatia produces a million, million and 100 thousand tonnes of wheat, storage capacity has about 450 thousand tons of it for, for Croatian purposes, the problem is where we will store those other 500 thousand tonnes if we do not have the capacity to store them so that we do not talk more about corn, sunflower and other cultures. Therefore, I think that Croatia must take care of what you are talking about through the supply system and cannot be brought into the situation that Croatia has no flour, no cereals, to say that the price of oil in Germany has reached nearly six euros per litre, Croatia still stands well because we are sufficient with the production of olives, but I think that certainly Croatian citizens in the first place There's no dilemma at all, so if it comes to that I believe the decisions will be... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101576	Thank you very much. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101577	Thank you. Dear and distinguished representative Ivanovic. Today, we have mentioned a little bit in the debate one thing that seems to us from the Homeland Movement quite likable, which is a little decentralisation especially of this entire large management system. The Ministry of Agriculture put in Osijek, Management of the Croatian Forests in Vinkovce, Ministry of Tourism in Split, so here I am interested if... express your personal opinion. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101578	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101579	I think it's a matter of political articulation, of every political party. I was the mayor's candidate in 2013. And one part of my program was saying that the Ministry of Agriculture should be placed in the metropolis of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, it's Osijek. But that is something that is your political platform from which you will perform. I do not think that this may be the biggest problem of Croatian agriculture and certainly not, Zagreb is the centre and there is no dilemma at all. Is something important going to get better, get rid of it? Well, I'd probably hire a part of the people who live in the space of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem because it would be more up to them, but my mantra is not that I'm territorial that I'm against being here or there, but that the ministry is showing that potent that we expect of him, and I think that they're just a little bit together with the Committee on Agriculture kind of slowly articulate and that these shifts are visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101580	Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101581	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's a colleague of Ivanovic's. Here you have said yourself that this law is likely to have to be yet to be completed, there is no ideal law, and in particular the Law on COMMASSATION was first passed in 1902 in Croatia. So the wish was to really improve and get some things done a long, long time ago. And this law today that we're passing, both first and second reading, we see that there are a lot of things that are simply hard to carry out on the ground. They are being carried out for this reason, and you yourself have said because of past sins that may have been due to lack of good conduct, and guesses. And then it's very sad to hear that when I looked at that law I was happy when I saw that the units of local self-government could be involved, that it would come faster and easier to see what land should be combined in what way, but it's just sad to hear that there are local sheriffs who are some kind of local sheriffs who favor some land for not knowing what malversions. I don't think that's nice because it's in everyone's interest to do better and to enforce any law, and I think we should do a little better to educate and inform the population that they finally start to believe that this law is good really not only for the state, for the local environment, but also for the local environment. for... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101582	I think it's been a minute, though the chronometer doesn't work there, but I think it's gone. Do we agree that she passed? You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101583	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that some kind of collective Stigmatisation in Croatia is simply something that is completely spaced in politics that is particularly expressed. I think a colleague of the Yankees spoke on the Committee on Agriculture this morning. We have 555 local self-government leaders and 20 mayors. Okay, there must be one, two or three men who have significantly violated everyone else's reputation. But every violation has its own name and last name and I think that the units of local self-government are the foundation and pillar of the community, and that is the basic nucleus of every society, that are very important and I support those leaders of the units of local self-government, not those who put their fingers in jam, but those that need to be perverted not only from politics but from complete society, but from those honest, honest people who are individuals for 7,000 or 7,500. Kuna manages 50, 60 or 100 million kuna investments. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101584	Thank you. ... Mr. Mazhar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101585	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague. Here's since you said you were going to the mayor's competition, but you were also a deputy mayor, maybe we should extend this topic to something I didn't hear today in the debate, which is that this law, that is, opens up the possibility for local self-government units to make infrastructure projects easier. So, it can also go into building the necessary playgrounds, infirmarys, kindergartens, business areas, so all of this contributes to local self-government units to create development projects or ultimately to have easier promotion of local development projects, and here is an example of Osijek-Baranja County where the regional distribution centre for fruit and vegetables will now be opened near Nemetin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101586	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101587	Thank you very much. Yes, the basic difference between the commissioning and the rounding is exactly what you're saying, so the composing is a process that in the local self-government unit opens up other things than just rounding up parcels. And I think that, especially when it comes to rural part of Croatia, and let's be honest, Croatia is two-thirds of the rural country, and these areas absolutely need that help here, with two representatives of the local self-government unit, we have as many as five other members of the commission who can, with their knowledge, help those leaders of the local self-government unit to make the commission work in the best possible way possible and to set the conditions and preconditions for something that will take place in the next 50 or 100 years, so let's look at the commission that Maria Teresa has still been working on in some areas and it is excellently done not need absolutely any work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101588	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101589	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague Ivanovic, here's what you mentioned is a process of communication where, for example, there's one. About 20,000 particles reduced to 4,000 particles, if I understood correctly, so I suggested here a moment ago in the debate to clear the particles of those who wanted to, who circled a few, particles of several owners to delete them under the law that should be done and based on their will, we would achieve a similar result. In Kutina, the bay the way was made somewhere in the '60s. In the 1960s, 15 or 20 years after World War II at a time when it was done compared to today with the primitive means of these meters and today we have satellites and everything available. As for the integrity of the unit leaders of local self-government, here's my mayor of Kutina for three months sitting in Remetic for political trade. And what are you going to believe is 1, 2, 3? There's a lot more of them, but we have to warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101590	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101591	Here, thank you, dear fellow Lenart, and listening to your debate this morning on the Agriculture Committee, I didn't think it was you who wanted to show all these people who'd become some kind of crime, but again, let's be realistic about it, here's Mayor Kutina, Mayor of New City, some mayors, but still it's only about 1.5, 2.5 or 3% of all the mayors and mayors. That's because showing every crime, every thief that happens is the task of every one of us who thinks and wants to be a member of this society. Therefore, this civic consciousness must be at the highest level, especially with us parliamentary representatives. But again, I say collective Stigmatisation often drives young people out of politics, and that's not good, we don't achieve competitiveness, we reduce competitiveness, and then in politics we get what we don't want. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101592	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague, Ivanovic, that farmers may be insolent by the compatriation and association over some relics of the past. I would say, however, that the commission is stuck because of the length of the process, because of property legal relations, because of administrative constraints, and it is good that this law tries to resolve it and to solve it through emergency procedures, which should speed things up to meet these deadlines set by the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. You have also warned in your presentation that there is a need to be careful during the process of combating biodiversity conservation, and it is also important to make sure that the less food waste is produced, because according to Fau, about 20% of the fruit, vegetables, the bulky plant in the production itself. If we look at that in Croatia We throw 300,000 tons of food, and 18% of our people live on the edge of poverty, so that's the aspect we need to talk about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101594	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101595	Thank you, well-respected colleague Petir, that this biodiversity, the biodiversity of Croatian territory is very, very important when it comes to the segment of agriculture, but we also need to be very careful and ultimately we need to pass a law that will protect producers in a certain way. Let's look at what's going on in Baranja with the most deer and all the other savages that in the short run do a lot of damage in agriculture. It doesn't mean we have to, I don't know how to give a warrant to a hunting society to kill all the deer that's moving there, but we need to find ways to protect these people, to damage what they've lost, and in fact they've encouraged that biodiversity. Thus, biodiversity and global change will be two imperatives of each agricultural policy and so will Croatian. I think we have a comparative advantage here. Just maybe we haven't made up our mind yet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] With enough heat, we set out to do it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101596	Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101597	I thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Ivanovic, is a process that has a significant impact on what is the objective of agricultural production, and you yourself said that the goal is to create added value, so I am curious whether you believe that we are closer to this goal by this law and that you believe that we are removing this law. We're setting up barriers that slow down the balance, first of all, I'm thinking about administrative obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101598	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101599	In the light of this law, one or another paragraph speaks precisely about reducing these barriers that are often administratively set so that you can practically pass it but you will never apply it. It is this information of the entire system that goes in favour of this, and that means world science says that rounded land brings additional value to agriculture. It is, therefore, not something that the Ministry of Agriculture has invented at the moment, but something that agricultural policies have been using throughout Europe and the world for a long time. But again, I do not belong to those politicians who will call on 100 and 200 acres of parcels. It's a big danger, I'm not up for something like that. I think we should stay within a hectare that's real, and everything else would then be devastating maybe for, not right now, but in 20 or 30 years, such parcels certainly wouldn't be like that anymore. Which would be our tendency. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Therefore, let us be careful when talking about size, the size of parcels we want to round.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101600	Thank you, we'll be careful, thank you. Mr. Lenart, Mr. William.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101601	I'm yes, thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic, I'm curious to know what you think the odds are, however, here I am being held accountable. responsible. Today, the secretary of state has not even responded to my first replica about the possibility that what is really collated in the end turns out to be 200 million and so much that we will get from Europe, 50 million that will give the Croatian state out of the budget to end it eventually in someone's foreign hands and that it is simply said that we currently have the cheapest land, however, according to the law of the market as soon as foreign customers come, they will raise the price and we will all be the richest. Is that going to make our O.P.G.s richer than that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101602	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101603	Thank you very much for this question. I am also not happy that high quality land in the Republic of Croatia when compared to the EU that has individual countries, much worse soil than Croatia has. For their hectares, they can get 50, 60 or 70,000 euros, and with us, it may be up to 10,000 euros at most now. And that's what we should be trying to do. We heard here from the chairman of the committee that moratorium we asked the EU for for 7 years, is this how the extension to 2023 stands out in 2023. I am also of the opinion that all land that can remain in Croatian ownership must remain in Croatian ownership and need to find a way to keep it in Croatian ownership and that as few foreigners as possible only raises the unwarranted value of this land, and that later this land is just a coin for some different subscribing which would certainly not be good, rather than the foundation of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101604	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101605	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the commission means definitely editing and anyone who even thinks a little about agricultural production and the importance of production, the importance of the state normally wants the land system as well as the entire agriculture to be arranged. But over 30 years, we haven't solved the problem of state agricultural land, we haven't fixed it, it's failing because a lot of the land's surfaces haven't gotten long-term users yet who should be taking care of the arrangements. On many surfaces that were drenched, which consisted of a technological unit, we simply failed the drainage because or the owners because they were given a year, two, five did not edit, did not repair bars, did not clean channels or because Croatian water did not do the job. What we all in Croatia would like is that everything is arranged, that all those who do not have a communicated to get roads, get channels where they can drop water. Normally, it takes time, and there's a great deal of will to do that. Like I said in the Kutina, there was a co-operation in the '60s. There's a channel network, there's roads. At that time when the people who were dealing with this had the means we can say primitive, measured, and people who measured it compared to today when we have satellites, when the meter that comes knows exactly where to put the point. What did we do for 31 years? Nothing. We didn't do anything about it. There are other measures that we do not want to hear or listen to, we do not want to use them, but it is simply obvious that someone deliberately wants Croatian politics to sink, i.e. agriculture. Our agriculture is below the level of what was 30 years ago. We also planned in this strategy that in the 1930s, we would come from today's 19 billion to 30 billion. Well, if we don't do anything, inflation will get us to 30 billion. And that's where we didn't want to put the physical evidence that they were telling us if our agriculture had grown or not. Every farmer, a peasant speaks with respect, not to insult anyone because I am a peasant, producing food. Every peasant is emotionally bound to his country. For 30 years, I've been sorting out my parcels that had a problem with the water regime, with the draining of water, with my position. So when you invest 30 years of your work in a plot and now you're being co-opted and you need to get something completely different where he might have been a reckless owner who didn't care, where he was unprofessional, where he didn't have adequate machines to handle it properly and to implement all the agrotechnical measures then there's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101606	Thank you very much. Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101607	I'm sorry, I'm not finished, so I've got a little more...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101608	But there was a break, there was a break. Here you go. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101609	I don't say my criticisms here, in order that I would now criticise either the Secretary of State or the Minister or even the ruling or those who were previously ruling. Because there were ministers from all the options. Each one of them may have a good side, and there may be some bad side. My goal in my debates is to try to improve agriculture. It will never be ideal but we have quality resources, we have enough water that we don't know how to use, so we suffer because of the drought. We have a quality land that even in a certain part of us grew up in a schizo, because we don't know how to solve property-legal relations, because we don't know how to divide state land, because we don't know what to do with that land where the unknown owners or the inaccessible owners are. So we are unable to solve the problem of state or private agricultural land to raise agricultural production. We can produce anything but bananas even oranges grow in Croatia, and we are not enough except in the wheat and corn that we sell immediately after harvesting mostly in export and thank God those Italians want to buy it in our country because we destroyed no one eats that cereal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101610	Thank you very much. Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101611	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Lenart, I absolutely disagree with what you just said, we haven't done anything in agriculture in 30 years. If this were exactly what you said then surely in the area of Novska, in five tenders for state agricultural land would not have been held in the territory of the city of Novska, the first competition for common pastures in the area of 700 hectares would not have been opened in Croatia, as would not have been employed by an agricultural director, and only last year had he put 200 hectares of abandoned private agricultural land into operation without saying that we had launched a series of procedures for establishing unknown owners, or if they had not been ossuary property prescribed land on a unit of local self-government. The last time I checked the HSS, he made a big contribution to it in Novsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101612	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101613	Thank you, dear fellow Chicken. That you have recognised the contribution of the HSS and in cooperation in Novska, things are trying to establish for the better, but all of those areas that you mentioned are arranged and created in that country. So the channel network, the drainage, the creation and circumnavigation of these surfaces hasn't been made in the last 30 years. It is good that the man who privatized this silo in Novska and a certain part of being correct who employs domestic people and retains production in his space and maintains both silos and droughts, means that it works. We've lost a lot of that. We're talking here today about storage facilities that aren't available, so mostly they're made in that country, all the concrete silos are from that country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101614	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101615	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representative Lenart has not told the truth until the end about the state of agricultural land in the last 30 years. Indeed, we have been working on the situation on agricultural land, warning those owners of abandoned agricultural land to put them into office. I remind you, 200 acres last year alone, before the last year of 150 acres, that we spent cadastrean operations for the start-up of composite agricultural blocks in Bresta which has not been spent for the past 30 years. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101616	Thank you. There was a replica going by the difolt reminder Did you answer before that? [[Is that what you needed?]] Yeah. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101617	Thank you. Yeah, fascinating figures are 150 acres in terms of millions of hectares, okay. My question is, in principle, a comment which I believe, and many in this assembly, at least on this side, is that these discussions last for hours, days and ultimately do not result in anything. So, in this document, the final draft of the law on less than a card is indicated which was accepted from the first debate and on seven cards which was not accepted. So, I just want to comment and ask for your comment, what is the purpose of the debate in the assembly if they are not accepted, some of the Committee on Legislatives has been adopted, but most of the Committee on Agriculture has not been accepted? What should be discussed in the assembly if not accepted, not all but apparently good improvements that would benefit farmers and the interest of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101618	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101619	All right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101621	Thank you very much, Vice President. I can't threaten that a colleague of Ursha Raukar didn't hurt her. 238th Demeanor of MPs. He says it's a little funny to hear that you put into office 150 acres of agricultural land when we speak of a million. Since the first hectare moves, when you put a hectare of distinguished MPs into office then you can comment on what I said, the Law on COMMASSATION and the Law on Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101622	Please don't answer from the bench. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is your replica, you get a warning. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101623	Can I? Here's a thank you for asking. [[Stain Sanader: Yes.]] The debate in the assembly according to me when I look at this side of the Assembly's representative working on the possibility of changing the law and affecting what is being brought here, I conclude that simply HS should be disbanded and sent home and leave the government to do its job as it works because so and so everything that is on the other side of Mark's square decides to be brought here. The ruling majority have a majority, no matter who the ruling majority is, so have some other contemporaries where the other ruling majority was. As far as the land is concerned, I am a colleague of Piletic's who hasn't heard one of my words mostly, I'm not saying that everything, so there are these 150 hectares that his administration has solved, but when you talk about land, you know from which premium the peasant starts, that only the country and the woman are giving birth. Since no one wants to share their wife, they also do not want to share their land that he does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101624	Next individual debate, respected representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101625	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's before I start the exposure, I'm just gonna talk to Mr. Lenart about something a little bit more about this. Indeed, if you have carefully read this law, it does not impose anything on anyone, and does not force anyone to do anything. Read it a little bit more, and you'll see. The aim of this law is, in fact, the most important objective of increasing agricultural production, above all, military cultures, means that olive groves that should later be served as a basis, as a basis for increasing and livestock production, but also for increasing and expanding the food industry and all that will increase the total value of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, which will make it in some way competitive both at Croatia and at EU level, and which will ultimately result in the remainder of a number of young people who will be engaged in agricultural production in our villages. That's the basic goal, and that someone would force someone to do it if you said a little more in detail you could conclude that, that it's nowhere to be seen is it. So the situation on the ground currently in the Republic of Croatia is really different from the region to the region. Somewhere in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, a long time ago, much has been done in the envelopment, in the unification, and in these parts, indeed agriculture can, in some ways, be commended and truly at a high level of technology. Unfortunately, in certain parts, mainly in the hills, coastal etc. these plots are much more significant or many of them are packed up and eventually it kind of knocks us down and that total average when we watch this one, but what's there. Uh, I'm gonna stick around a little if, if I can just look back at that, that statement of interest where there was in some 23 JLS showed interest, it's as much as I've seen there 5 of them in Osijek-Baranja County. And now that they keep saying here that the situation is very bad in agriculture that nothing happened, etc., it's just denying you because when you look at that from 42 JLS as much as there are in Osijek-Baranja County, 7 cities and 35 municipalities, only 5 of them have shown the need to make a co-operation, a commission on, on, on, on that space. That means that, somewhere around 11.5-12% of everything, and when we consider that in these, these JLS are not going to be on the whole surface, there's no need on the whole surface of the building, doing the composing, then we see that it's really a very small percentage where it's necessary to do it later enough. So he's denying you that something has not been done, but this has been done and done all the time. Some JLS have, through agricultural land distribution programmes, formed technological units and, as such, sold or leased or leased in the long term, thus allowing those farmers who are seriously engaged in agricultural production to use state-of-the-art technology, agricultural machinery and ultimately to be competitive or, indeed, to compete with their products, to compete on this demanding market. This proposal of the law is indeed very precise, clear, clearly defined, reducing procedures, reducing the number of participants or participants in all these procedures and significantly shortening the deadlines for implementation or the planned process of carrying out the commission from some 5 g. and more planned now is approximately 2-5.g. Yeah, well, the one that's certainly not, it's certainly not negligible. The tasks of all participants in the process have been clearly defined, meaning by the ministry which publishes public calls for the selection of the area for the implementation of the commission. The Ministry of Agriculture also publishes public calls for the implementation of expert geodetics, decisions on a proposal for an idea solution is also made either by the Ministry or by JLS, depending on the need and the ability, and then the ministry agrees on the plan, the idea plan for an idea solution, and ultimately means, after the consent of the State Administration body, a meeting is carried out with farmers interested in the implementation, implementation of the commission. So no one's making anyone do anything to those farmers, too. if they have an interest or if they have over 50% [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101626	We've got a few replicas, so you'll proceed. Dear Representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101627	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Shaslin, as longtime head of the Draž Municipality, as a man who is constantly on the ground, you certainly have insight into the current state of land circulation in Osijek-Baranja County, but also whether the current situation allows the use of advanced agricultural technologies, which is also a condition for competitiveness both at the level of the Republic of Croatia and at EU level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Radic, you know as well as I do, and you are witnessing that in Osijek-Baranja County, and especially in Baranja this state of agricultural land was arranged long ago, but this process, I will say this process, continuously and today. We had 40 years ago and more on those boards where we were constantly forced to practically do meliorization and draining. Unfortunately, today because of climate change on these same surfaces, we have to and build irrigation systems because the simple level and level of groundwater has fallen, the amount of rainfall has fallen considerably and we simply have to adapt to it, but we wouldn't be able to do that if these parcels weren't what they are, or if they weren't in some way melliorized or grouped already some 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101629	Next replica, respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101630	We have some older experiences 35 years ago, 40 years ago, right in the part of our county of Varazdin, there were co-operations, and that was very stressful at the time. It was a fight between neighbors, parents, friends, acquaintances because those countries there are some in the plains, some of them are hilly, mostly those are people who have been denied. One got a processing field excellent the other got a meadow or a gray hair etc., the third got a trip. Now how do we deal with it today, is there any fee if someone gets a worse category, gets more once they get into that process to prevent such conflicts and such injustices obviously? What are the compensations here now? Do you know how things are now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101631	Thanks, buddy. So here's how much I've seen in that table of interest in Varazdin County, I think only one, unfortunately, unit of local self-government has shown interest in the process of cohesion. I believe that in the repeated process, that interest will be greater and that it will somehow circle those surfaces, although I am a little skeptical. I'm afraid they'll still be in those places where, until now, these particles in large parts have remained that way because I know that this process is not easy and that it's not easy to reconcile. However, here if you have seen in this Regulation exactly defined the work of the commission in which it works, who enters the commission and how this land is land, so no one will force anyone to have to do anything if it does not agree to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101632	And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101633	Dear colleague Shashin, I highly respect you as a colleague and as a person, but you're wrong about some things here. One commission was not voluntary for all, some were always forced, only it was easier to carry out in communism because it was a firmer regime than it is today where everyone is calling for the constitutional right of inalienance of private property. What about when the last laps were made? Before the 1990s, the commission ended in the '90s. So we haven't circled in these 30 years, we've been dividing because we've disbanded the PICs, we've divided even the technological units of the production unit we've even divided into multiple owners. We've been uniting the land for 30 years, and believe me, no commission will bring the young back and prevent them from going outside, but our disorder of the system that is if it gets better, then they'll come back, and with this they won't. Agricultural production will not grow until the market is secured. Thank you. I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101634	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101635	Thank you. My dear colleague, unfortunately, I cannot agree fully with you because this law is only part of a set of laws that should sort of solve the total problems in Croatian agriculture, of course it cannot be done overnight. But I'm also going to tell you the facts specifically here in the municipality of Pushkash we've been doing a whole new measurement of some 80s and some hectares where we've made out of some 70s and some small particles only 10 or 12 particles much larger and thus we've helped our farmers to actually use both technology and mechanisms there, the ones that are required in agriculture today. So there were such positive examples in Slavonia and Baranja trust me more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101636	You're done with this. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101637	Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I was thinking something else, but I'm going to go in some other direction. Like I said an hour ago, two times when I was talking on behalf of the club about the membership, we've been scribbled, kicked, privatized for 30 years, to remember now let's do it or round it up. Okay, like I said, it's never too late, but let's not do praises now or a colleague of Piletic or Miletic as he calls you Furio Radin, don't do praises. Well, you've made a nice little step, but you don't need to hurt the Rules of Procedure right now, you've done a lot for agriculture. Well, it's your duty, you're mayor, so it's your job, it's your job, and it's going to cost you and reward your fellow citizens of Novska either positively or negatively, but let's not put it with the current state of Croatian agriculture that's catastrophic. It's bad. Well, we're not gonna tell any stories here right now if it's not good. Let's take a step, I said I'll support the commission, today I voted whoever was angry that he was angry I voted for the commission because I said let's do something positive so we don't be critics, so we don't get enraged, we don't say nothing wrong. But my people, so now says the board president no matter who we care we've had 59 sessions or 30 so it's nobody's personal front, no one's PR that we're going to be talking about 50 sessions here, 60th time I was holding a quorum so it could vote, I'm sorry to watch people who came from Croatian waters defend some kind of report. Let's have an open conversation, let's get the pulsism out of the way, let's get everything out of the way. Croatian agriculture is on appliances. Well, at the time of the war today, we don't have everything to make a decision not to take out a kilo of wheat or corn. We don't have a place to store it, so that's the problem. So we have, why do we have so much import? Well, because we killed all of our own, we killed small farmers, we killed mediums, big ones can survive and let's see what we can do in the future. We can't get back the time we lost, we lost it, but no matter which government is left or right, agriculture has always come just before the elections to get a little bit of camouflage to see what from the peasants can get any votes, but no other government has helped anything extra. Then EU funds came in and eventually agriculture went into another plan, only talking about how much money is going to get thousands of euros, and agricultural production is falling. Let's make a balance sheet, how much money we've taken from the EU, and how much added value we've made in agricultural production and how much we've paid back the VAT. Well, that would be a devastating result. And that's all about the population list that showed where people move out. Well, where they do agricultural production. And then the board president wonders, says the Netherlands has a hectare of so many thousands of euros, and in Croatia, agricultural land is a hectare of misery. Well, of course, when we don't have a country, when we don't have a system, when nobody wants to deal with that agriculture. So if it's so good, why is it so underrated? Building land where people deal with tourism is unfortunately overrated. There's no problem selling. Who's going to sell agricultural land when you have an unsettled state, you've got an unsettled market, you have, so you don't have people. Well, people can't find someone to come pick strawberries in season. And now we're gonna write praises. Let's see what we can do to help, let's get rid of pulsism, let's get everyone out of the way and let's try that Croatian agriculture finally help. Well, we can't, we're importing pork, chicken. So we milk in some tanks question what quality we rinfu milk import to Croatia. And then we watch the agricultural show, our milkers say we'd... Just that little premium, maybe a dime a liter of milk we can raise, maybe save 50 or 100 farms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not what we do. And then we wonder why people don't do agriculture. Well, they don't do agriculture anymore or secondary activity. People used to work in the morning at a company, so they'd have a couple of blocks of land this afternoon and they'd grow some grain, and they'd have a pig, so they'd have a calf, and then they'd sell it, and they'd supplement a little budget, and in three years, they'd buy a new car or a kid to go to school. Well, I can't do that today either. Well, there's nothing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101638	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101639	So I don't normally do this, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, and I won't, and I only have two more replicas, one for my colleague Troscott, one for my legend as the mayor of our hero Mir Bulj. So in 238, let me get a warning. I commend every word you've said here for your colleague's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101640	Too bad we have to give you a warning, that you don't have a replica. But here's a reminder for you, like you said yourself. Replica Honored Representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101641	Here's my esteemed colleague. I listened very carefully to what you said. What I'm interested in, so in the spirit of this all you've said is that we've been waiting for the last moment for the farm land moratorium, so that foreigners can buy. It was waiting for the last moment of last year. Well, here's where you can see maybe some interest in that farm you touched. And the second thing is, one pretty sad thing is that a pig in Slavonia, so it's already as invaluable as that. So everyone who has a pig on their property is already a priority in losing. Well, I'd like to ask you to comment on these two facts when you've already touched through your speech of a certain matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101642	Well, thank you, I think a few months ago I said that our last chance to preserve our national interests was not to sell out all our agricultural land. And that's where we need to find a consensus of all parties, so no one is politicizing because it's a really serious topic. We've seen what happened to Forte Nova and Sberbank, that practically overnight some so-called. A giant Sberbanka lost nothing. But in the Fortenovo, there are 15 or 20,000 still left in agricultural land. That's one thing. But that's a wide theme of the fruit. The other thing, that's exactly what we did with those legal procedures that killed the little man at the O.P.G. If you want to come to him and buy a pig he can't slaughter you because he did it on black as illegal, you can't get her in the car because you should have a specialized car that can carry it. So we didn't find somewhere between staying between Europe and defending our little farmers and... We missed our chance there. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101643	Next replica, respected Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101644	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vukas, I cannot commend anything my noun Miletic has commended you here. Because if anyone who is even two people in agriculture heard this speech of yours, I think they would have given up better packing bags and gone somewhere and you have hundreds of Croatian young farmers who use different measures, set up family farms, agricultural crafts and therefore move towards a challenge called Croatian European or whatever you want world agriculture. I didn't brag, I didn't brag here, and I don't think it's something respectable. I spoke and responded to a colleague of ours, Lenart. So, what we've been doing and having positive examples these 30 years. Because if we here in the Croatian Parliament say that no one in Croatian agriculture has worked for 30 years, and we have an increase in the number of OPGs, we have the latest data in Sisak-Moslavina County than before the earthquake who will answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101645	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101646	Oh, look at Sisak-Moslavina County. You'd better not mention it. What has been done with the recovery of the earthquake, and everything is expensive, if you have political wisdom, you will be silent there. Don't throw it away, I didn't throw it to you! And therefore, there's more cattle I can't even believe in madness, but if there's any honor, but don't say it. Second of all, those little O.P.G.s and all that stuff, nobody says anything happened. But don't fog our eyes and tell us that Croatian agriculture is good, that everything is booming, that this Law of Compassion is going to fix a lot. He won't! Well, it's not good. These little O.P.G.s you're talking about, we're making statistics on how many small O.P.G.s have opened up and how many of these same O.P.G.s have been closed since they passed the Calvary they've been through. Well, we can't be motivated by the withdrawal of money from the EU, the motive should be the market, the region where this agricultural production is being done, where these agricultural products will be sold, the preservation of national interests, help with the collection of these people without telling you the ransom stations that they knew such products say it's not for the first class, it's for the second class. These are problems you haven't talked about in years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101647	Thank you, Mr. Vukas. You're done. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101648	Thank you very much. Kolega Piletic injured Article 238 where he interferes with parliamentary representatives in the debate because the bench is being overused, but his speech is also simple I think as a man he will take over the ministry of beauty of reality from fellow Boric. For a time, he was a bit overrun, and I congratulate him on that. I think you're the best candidate for your government for minister of beauty of reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101649	Here's a thank you for the suggestions, but this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, so you get a warning. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101650	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, Article 238 of the derogation from behaviour in the Croatian Parliament was injured. So it's interesting that a colleague here said that there was nothing wrong with Croatian politics to then say in the replica that the first thing to do is to do an analysis of, for example, how they work, that don't work. So it's just proof that you're talking about the floscule here, the demagogue, what people want to hear. And while your colleague Piletic is talking about concrete examples, you do not like it, but you turn the subject to something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101651	And a warning to you because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101652	Well, I never took it, nor did I think I'd take it, so I'm surprised to you, Comrade Habib. I'm even surprised that you're taking an injury to the Rules of Procedure and you're bending that thing for nothing, and you haven't even called for an article or anything I've said yet. I said that in the end all OPGs need to be analyzed after five years. How he's gonna get us an analysis before it's been five years. And now you might get some points on your page to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101653	Okay. And this was a replica, so you get a warning too. Next infraction of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101654	Dear Chairman, I ask you to warn the MPs that they do not provide the wrong information. We have a lot of O.P.G.s, we have 157,000, and how many of these O.P.G.s are engaged in agriculture, and how many of them are involved in renting beds. They haven't seen a cow, or a chicken, or a single animal, or a pig, but they're the O.P.G.'s because it gives them the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101655	I agree with you that no one should present false information which, however, you had this as a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Next is the individual debate of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101656	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, we have a second reading after a month we have received the Law of Compassion and what I said and when I spoke on behalf of the club, we just have to ask ourselves what the goal is. Is this goal, this law, that right now, in this assembly, we're going to pass the Law of Compassion, or is it the aim of this law that we really co-operate and implement? I don't read this law in a way that, in accordance with it, it will be possible to carry out. Once again there will be commissions, there will be deadlines, there will be different things again, and in just five to six years there will be another government and some other minister or minister of agriculture will say in an explanation that we had a law based on which things could not be done and that now a new law needs to be passed. I've been reading a couple of things. One of us, we had in law and urban cohesion believe it or not. In 2013, in 2013 we abolished these provisions of the law relating to urban cohesion, urban membership is a commission in the urban area, for reasons why you can have as many provisions in the law as you want, but if people don't want to carry out the work, if land owners don't want to give their land in the process of cohesion, you can take pictures to put it that way. And then in 2013, we gave up on the urban commission, and there was a lot of inscriptions on why, for which, and everything else, we didn't bring it back in 2022, but where the owners could actually agree on it in nature and conduct it. What's key when we talk about our space and our land is a cadastre and a garland. You in the catastro and the grants have an unsettled state and it does not last a short time. The gruntovnicas are a mess I'd say from '45 on here because then property wasn't important and only for examples, I studied in the last century in another country. And when I was doing spatial plans at college, when I started working like that, I didn't care about the cadastre that was underneath and whose property it was, we drew roads, buildings and everything. Back in '91. For years, you couldn't bring any more plans to not check the cadastre, not to check the garland, not to see who owns it, not to worry about whose land you're planning roads, parks, green areas because it became an integral part of it. Well, there's no difference between that and that story and this combination. How are you going to get any owner who doesn't want to go into the business? Not at all. So he needs to know what his interest is. And what's his interest in all this together? I'm afraid we don't know. And here we have two facts that are absolutely clear. The first fact is that large quantities of unprocessed agricultural land that is in the area of the Republic of Croatia and we can all tear our legs apart and someone can scream from this pay phone, someone with arguments, someone with data, someone with financial data, but I don't see any less unprocessed agricultural land. I don't see it. I don't see after all these law enforcement and all that. I see that raw agricultural land has more and more. And we have a situation of selling agricultural land, a moratorium that's on its way out. Will the moratorium of colleagues and colleagues be abolished? No, they won't. So it's naive if we think it will, but it sees miracles, there will be some of the other EU countries waiting to buy a certain agricultural land. And now I ask you, how will it be worth it to them and buy that agricultural land, maybe even a cadastre and a garland, and they'll do their best to make sure they have their own interests, and how will we which country, how can we which country, how can we as individuals not see our own interest? You see how nice Minister Paladin saw interest there in Slavonia because it seems to us that there is no interest at all, the man bought hectares and hectares of land. So what maybe we or individuals don't see is what's the interest, someone who's looking with a little bit higher sees interest. Therefore, do not naively expect that the moratorium will be discontinued. It won't be lifted, but there will be those who recognize their interest, but I'm sorry. That we don't see that interest. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101657	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101658	Thank you. Dear colleagues. At the beginning of your presentation, you have asked a question which is the objective of this law because it is clear to anyone who carefully reads it that the procedure for carrying out a commission on the basis of such a system simply will not be possible, nothing will be done as has not been done under the previous 2015 law. I'd say it says what the goal is, it says... and Mile, the goal is actually to be by the end of 2022. spend 2 million kuna on the famous information system and is known about which the assignment of the IT programme will be allocated. Maybe we don't know, but as you've well noted, they see those with a little bit of an instance. Therefore, the law is broken over the knee, which is why two readings are conducted in less than 30 days and therefore no objections and a proposal from the opposition laws have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101659	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. So not long ago, there were some parliamentary elections in which the current ruling party and their president at the time said it was important to inform and digitise, which meant that five projects were to be listed so that all five of them could not be listed. And when it comes to information, we also see a case of a former minister who is a former minister for whom processes that were much larger than our competent authorities were to show what this information means in the way of the ruling party. So they work alike, they work suitable for large funds where you can automatically compare to the actual value add zero, and then the results are very problematic. So when we're talking about this law here, if all this is two readings, and this discussion of the compatriots results in just making information, so they could have made it simpler.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101660	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101661	Honorable MPs. To take the opportunity to answer you in one part of your question, will you be able to carry out the commission? In one part of Croatia is very difficult, and in the other part they will not. So, in Zagorje, there's no way to do that because it's coming to us to read the new Agriculture Act that's going to stop it. The same case is in Dalmatia, so the new Agriculture Act will... Art. 44th prevents it. And we will see whether the government will be ready and most will accept our amendments and our suggestions and suggestions, since none of our proposals have been accepted here, even the responsible ok will not be possible, they are asking whether or not there will be more or no more agricultural production. I claimed in my statement that it would not be and certainly there would be no more production. And we can solve it in a different way, especially where the parcels are small.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101662	My colleague Pavić, I can't agree with you. So in one part, there's no way, and in the other part, the odds are less than 10%. But it seems to me that if it's decided to go with two readings, so they could have an emergency procedure and one reading, and you see one six, seven text cards anyway, because it suits all of us who have tried and explained and explained for the first time, so let's start with the energy, and let's make some kind of shift now, and someone will read it, so somebody will see it. The answers are even where something could be done didn't work out. Why? On purpose, no matter what we say, no matter what we say. Well, they'll do what they want, so behind that commission, if it's possible they know exactly which projects they're going to be and which projects they are for, and that's what's sad, and that's what's wrong, and that's what's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101663	Next replica, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101664	Thank you very much. My colleague Anka, I would just like to use this replica to say that in Croatia agricultural land is 20 times cheaper than for example. in the Netherlands. We come to a critical stage where we have destroyed our O.P.G.s, our peasants, and at this point as we discuss what 30, 40 years has not worked we need to sow crops. To us, the tribune of the secretaries and the minister who did not appear here on this important law, we are being triangulated by measures, by the tribune measure that the artificially detestable government reacts immediately to Petrochemia and that this peasant farmer can gnaw his country is being modeled. Well, they're doing it now in Ukraine, they're making every effort on free territory to bring the country down, and if it's sown, it's more important to them than any battle, it's the battle of all battles. And we're here to discuss something that's transferred to local self-government because of the carelessness and negligence of both county and state institutions that were responsible. Here's your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101665	Thank you very much, Comrade Bull. Therefore, this law will not allow the OPGs to work better, neither will the result of this law be the result of any more agricultural land being brought in for a purpose, the result of this law will be that we have another Law on Cooperation. So what the secretary of state has said about the moment since it started if everyone agrees and if no one puts any foot in the door until some last step is minimum 2.5.g. for 2.5.g. who lives like dead. I'm talking about who's gonna be in charge, where there's going to be a future and a secretary of state, and I'm afraid the future and the minister may already have someone over here on Mark's square who knows and that's it for you. So, the worst is that and what I kind of have to admit to the depression, I'd like to see from the law that the laws really are a step forward, to see the energy and the desire to do something, and not just to have a line, we have another law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101666	The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101667	Thank you. One very interesting thing you said in the very photo finish of this exhibition, and that's what they're looking at from another dimension, so I'd just like to conclude that. This other dimension is often characterized as incompetent, not I am convinced that these are very capable people who simply look at each other from another dimension, and this other dimension could be summed up with one postage in the French Revolution when one who sent someone to the guillotine said revolution had no need for chemists, so Lavosius ended up on the guillotine. Croatia has no need for agriculture, we produce in all food categories half of what we produced before 30. Croatia has no need for agriculture, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101668	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. I have often mentioned an example from this pay phone that is very interesting to me. Tickets of what Croatia looked like on February 15th, '68. It was extremely important to me in the business because it was a period, so all that was done until then, in terms of approval, is considered to have been made in accordance with approval, so on February 15, '68. was a key date. And then, then you get it, so we managed to get a complete flyover that the former military was working on all over Croatia, and then when you compare that '68. and let's say in 2003-2004 you see how much Croatian land was cultured in terms of agriculture, and how unprocessed land today is either forests or forests are not thematically complex plantings made but actually self-inflicted plants that have become forests and forest land, and here you actually see where this process has gone through that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101669	Next is the individual debate of the respected Bellmire Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101670	Dear people, dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today when I came to HS and saw Mr. Tugomir Majdak here, I thought we were voting the new Minister of Agriculture, really going to be sworn in today, but here I am disappointed, is there another Law of Compassion? And secondly, this reading of the Law on COMMASSATION is interesting because the secret strategy of land circulation has been emerging since 2009, and so was Mr. Jakovina in 2014 and '15. And today we're listening to the same rhetoric that we've managed to do something about the circle. So here today, given that Mr. Ivanovic has mentioned two half-times in his time, we as Club Mosta have now chosen strategy 4:4:2, 4 in terms of argument, 4 in order in terms of certain effects in agriculture and 2 solutions. As for the arguments, so under number one of 2009, it's just a transition from strategy to strategy, so it doesn't have any operational implementation, so it's best seen on the ground. And it is best seen in the field because today we have 500 thousand football fields of unprocessed land and if you take about a yield on land on a hectare that some 14 thousand kunas you get that Mr Plenkovic, perhaps the new Minister of Agriculture, loses about 10 Peljeski bridges in one term. Here is the efficiency of Croatian agriculture, so when spoken as if something had been done, it is something on individual examples that will be touched at the end, but we generally lose 10 Peljeka bridges in the term of one government. Furthermore, we have a situation that has already been set aside somewhere around 300 million kunas to round the land, now there will be 480 million kunas in this wave, so as before, there will be no results now. As for the effect, so effect number one, here is the Voice of Slavonia today cover almost the largest, the biggest article says the decline in production of almost all categories of fruits and vegetables. Here's the score, that's the score today. Furthermore, in Slavonia, it is invaluable to produce or deal with pig husbandry at all, pigs are invaluable to produce. Very few orchards are irrigated and protected against the fight and against the cold. He says irrigation, so there's mangoes in Israel in the desert, and we can't irrigate our fields. Here's to our Bool in Sinj or Slavonia, we can't irrigate, and the Israelis can irrigate in the desert. As for incentives, they are unfortunately used to buy apartments and cars. It's that, that's, that's the support that instead of actually being used for organic for example, food production, so we have the fact that they're used to buy apartments and private cars. And so the fourth argument is all there, all of those parts of Croatia that are rich with at least traditionally in agricultural production have moved out and today I read the data so all these people today are sending out more than 5 billion euros or more of Croatia's funding than health costs, that's what we are, that's one of the results of all these reforms that we've had since 2009, these massive land circulations, so one of them is read by Slavonia's voice there in Ireland in Dublin in that famous Platforum 69 cafe. Furthermore, as far as some solutions are concerned, we will be there constructively mentioned last time, so Mattius Anthony Reljković's High School is a positive example. These people have managed to combine and education on the one hand promote vocational school, and on the third hand they have developed a real sector, and that is why our students who have shown knowledge more than the ministers they do not have today may not have come. A few times Mr. Bulj praised the journey, so here he can no longer come to the Croatian Parliament. And the further general development of the system that we saw in Slavonski Brod at that school is, above all, a combination of science that has failed to see what is best seen from the agricultural land where it can be compared to one Italy and Denmark where a farmer can live there from the yield he has on his land he processes. That is unfortunately not possible in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101671	Replica, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101672	Thank you very much. My colleague, we have one problem that in the Republic of Croatia we only have 1% of agricultural land. That's what I said on behalf of the club, 1% watered up, and we have that kind of water potential and resources. You mentioned the river Cetina is similar with Krka and with Zrmanja and other rivers in the region of Dalmatia. No one gives a shit about irrigation. For what? And as for the composition in this way, it's going to be who they envisioned usurpation in Dalmatia. So what do you think you're going to do just like that, what 3 centuries hasn't been solved. So 1% of the total land, one million and a half acres, 700 is processed a hectare of thousands, 700 is not. So the absolute negligent system that a peasant can produce anything at all and there's a key problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101673	Dear colleague Bulj, what is my fear is that there may be even something round, but then you will only invite a stranger whose hectare of land is 20% more expensive than an example of the Netherlands that will come here and buy our land. And agriculture is known to be already a strategic branch in the economy, which many invest in, for example, agriculture, so that one China buys land in Africa so that it can save, because of energy, that it can therefore produce food and that it can compete as much as possible for its internal markets, with a view to exporting. And we so easily get rid of our land, which is seen, for example, in the moratorium that you were the loudest. Well, if you hadn't been in that debate known to the Minister on TV, we would never have made a request to protect our agricultural land. After that, the Minister reacted and sent a moratorium request to Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101674	Next replica, respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101675	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Sanader, a colleague of Troscott, steps up individuals here in the Croatian Parliament reminded me as a classmate of my students who if they got three, then I would say that 3 brothers, and he says that it's not 2, it's not 1, what I could and 2 get is if here's how people expect us to clap at what they do part of their job, of course not all and of course not as much as it should be. My question is very clear, we have villages that are very empty to us, unculture, which are very empty to us, disbanded, do you think that with the combination we will be able to fix this situation so that we don't just succeed as a project, and that we remain agricultural land that will be empty and abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101676	Dear fellow Miletic, the question, the question from Mr. Bulj would only extend to, not only rivers such as Dalmatinska Zagora, I listened carefully to your exposure today, so you mentioned certain villages such as Stankovci, so these are not just problems of the river there is a Vransko lake, so people have been present there for centuries and have developed agriculture. So it's not just a rounding problem, it's actually a problem and there are individual examples where people really managed to develop so agriculture and place it on the market, for example, it's a Slavonic Ship. What we're indicating today is the system, the system of production itself, from market placements, from science, that we can develop that these contributions from year to year are as good as possible. If they were to develop this system as they did in Slavonski Brod, they would take it over from the Netherlands, Denmark and other countries, so people would come back because they saw the opportunity and they could live on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101677	The next replica, the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101678	Dear colleague Troscott, we have been able to talk for decades about Croatian agriculture reminds us of a debate about some folklore, about something that we should artificially maintain in life, and what has no longer to do with life's reality and our own vitality. He thinks it's completely wrong. So we need to see at all agricultural policies, but also stop supporting something that market cannot survive on its own feet. So if we, along with the Croatian soil that we have, along with the water that we have, with the knowledge we have, with domestic consumers who are absolutely prone to domestic products, we cannot produce something that man would rather consume than something imported, then we are in a wider problem. And it seems to me that even if it were perfectly successful as it was theoretically imagined, it was only one detail that in itself would not bring any significant change, and that the basic problem was the lack of even a agricultural strategy and a lack of valorisation of incentives that have been given so far where farmers turned more into incentive hunters. rather than healthy market players. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101679	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101680	Dear colleague Rasdic, I would agree with you for the reason that this trend in agriculture is actually seen by a crown of capitalism, for example, so I will return to agriculture where Mr. Friday gets money from the ruling structures in that Slovenian 9 is there with representatives from Janaf and then the money from the budget is invested in getting jobs and making certain profits. Same things happen in agriculture. Therefore, there is not a problem with the support itself in agriculture, but with whom they have been given, for which they have been spent, and which are indeed the contributions from these aids. There are examples of countries in the world, an example of New Zealand that has no state support at all, they are absolutely market-oriented. We believe that this is not possible in Croatia at this time, given that the EU is the most subsidized, but you should see where these money goes and control it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101681	Please, Mr. Miletic and the Bull mask to put on. Replica, Mr. Bull. Replica, a respected representative of Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101682	... I'm glad you've already, I haven't counted, but four, five times mentioned Slavonski Brod City and Agricultural School which is really an example of how these vocational schools are supposed to look where students are trained to get out of school tomorrow, so that they can do anything in their activities here, in particular agriculture can survive on the market and do business. [[Specially enabled.]] It is indeed a thank you to all those who have participated in the creation of that school for generations. But when we discuss laws, in general, on the edge of these laws we discuss agriculture about this, what depends on what structure, and we don't discuss the very existence of this law. In essence of this law it is the law that is one tool to reduce the abandoned agricultural surfaces it is one way, and the agricultural production itself is on those branches as someone I say accepted that job. If they're ruined possessions it's hard, if those properties where we have big surfaces These farmers make good money and live well. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101683	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101684	Dear fellow Cosic. We have to touch Slavonski Brod because it is a really fantastic example where both Director Spray and many professors during the pre-accession period have succeeded very much in making one such, so I can freely say the technology centre and the laboratory that many today come from Europe to learn and the best practices that take place and that should be commended. What we don't agree on is that this law that we're discussing here today has already been present since 2009. and you watch the efficiency of what we have managed to do and what we have managed to round, it turns out that in the last 15 years of Yugoslavia, the last 15 years of Yugoslavia have unfortunately been more successful in rounding the land than in 30 years of independent Croatia, because in the last 15 years Yugoslavia is surrounded by 500,000 playgrounds now standing empty and not yet surrounded [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101685	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101686	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The basic objectives of non-composition can, unfortunately, be divided into several groups for more than 30 years. Number one, to enable an increase in agricultural production, at a time when we're counting how much we import and how much we're in, which makes it seem like we're ordered at the right time. Areas that have not been combined, which could be largely not processed, are not produced on them, and countries that are very serious farmers who want to work and live on agriculture are always missing. The aim of the commission is to create conditions for the implementation of hydro melioration procedures which address the issue of detailed depletion of precipitation waters in the area covered by the cohesion clusters. The regulated land thus increases production yields as well as prevents more damage than floods. The aim of the commission is to create conditions for smooth access to any future decent land planned for agricultural production. So arranged land in a non-commasted, unregulated area is not too much, therefore we have unscheduled roads across private parcels, a situation suitable for court disputes, not agricultural production. It's not a rare case that this is exactly the kind of land that has no access route to the fastest desert. The aim of the commission is to round up existing properties so that the existing widespread property after the commission is carried out is rounded up into economically sustainable units. What does that mean? This should mean that the owner of two or more parcels in the cohesion area will, after implementation, obtain the total size of all their plots until then scattered. The aim is to enable the commission to carry out procedures and actions that will address the issue of non-compliance between settlement borders and castar municipalities, thus inconsistencies in the border of the local self-government unit in some cases and in the county. The easternmost settlement of Sisak-Moslavina County of Borovac is such a settlement divided into two catastrian municipalities, and thus is not a harmonised border between the unit of local and regional self-government. Finally, the objective is to enable the implementation of procedures to address property relations and to establish an identical state of data in official real estate records. In particular, they make it more difficult to make available to state agricultural land where there is a lack of co-ownership on parcels between the Republic of Croatia and private owners. The commission has not been held in Croatia for more than 30 years, but there are still active experts, people with experience who participated and their experience and knowledge will be valuable to us in this process. They are also very involved through public consultation and through working meetings in the ministry. There have been questions about this countless fellow MPs and advocates for this speaker, will there be a problem with the implementation of the commissions? Let me see the one who says it won't be. There will be problems, however, it cannot and will not prevent the process of increasing the value of agricultural land and increasing agricultural production. So we have hundreds of examples in Croatia where cadastral measurements have been carried out, the commission is a process that wants to get into a new land book. The commission is the process of new measurements, new distributions of pitches and system editing. So last time I showed you what Croatia we want to live in. This one in which the commission was made or this catastrian municipality immediately to which it was not. Take a look at this graphic display of the catastrian divisions as it looks, what it looks like and what it looks like to be unmassed. And find me someone who owns this land who doesn't want his plot to look like this for two and a half, five years, to look compact, to look unique, to have no scattered possessions, but to have an economically sustainable whole, to have a decent public road. This is the aim of the commission, not to list what will happen to us all in the process, so to establish a new land book. Hundreds of repetitive examples are measured in the Republic of Croatia, which, with all difficulties, is ladies and gentlemen representatives in numerous units of local self-government completed, established all property and records, so rest on digital data, not in broken-down land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101687	The first replica, respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101688	Thank you. Well, I'll make it obvious. So you're in conflict with yourself. So you're saying that for 30 years, it hasn't been complicated and then you're waving at us with a map showing us who would want to live in a non-commasted country and who would want to live in a country but you're the ones who decided not to live in a country like that. In other words, what others have pointed out. So the last 15 years of socialism have been more combined than 30 years of HDZ capitalism, and besides that, in all of these, we produce 50% less today than we produced 30 years ago. And yes, I'll agree with you. Something was done in cadastrian proportions. But why? So you could just check out the property. You're mostly interested in property, real estate, land like I said in the previous replica not exactly agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101689	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101690	I'm glad to hear from my colleague, Peovic, that he knows what I'm interested in and what I think, so that's very commendable. Obviously, it has the abilities of some we don't have, as I believe it would be ideal for the implementation of, therefore, the memberships given the nostalgia of those times when the commission was conducted in any situation where we have people lost land. I didn't say who wanted to live or didn't want to live. I said who in the catastrian and unmassified land would say no to the orderly state which the state paid for and for which the State provided from the National Recovery Plan and Resistance additional funds to do just that, not to be at the expense of the landowner that we were listening to today. But also, if they're going to be farming bigger yields. However, you are obviously more interested in politics or politics than in organized Croatian in which I have much more to say from your colleague, Peovic. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101691	The violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101692	238. Except for the insult of the parliamentary representative and the misalignment of the terms means politology and politics are not the same term or not the same. But about that, by that So what you were so upset about when your colleague Leonard here warned you that for 30 years nothing was done you were terribly upset, I don't know, it's not very good for you and you're calling for some nostalgia. [[Intruding Chicken: So I didn't even mention them as unique.]] When the facts are presented, it means 30 years nothing has been done. and nostalgic might be you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101693	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Miro Bulj You don't have any answers? [[Upadica Chickenic: Show the results, so we can continue the debate.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101694	Thanks a lot, buddy. The 283th article was injured where he sent us Assembly representatives a message that there is much to tell about Croatia, more than all of us here. Well, here's if we can give him some space and time to give him some parliamentary representations. Now I don't know how long it takes him maybe an hour, two to tell us everything about Croatia that we can't or can't do or don't know. Here I am making a proposal, I hope that distinguished fellow MPs will allow as much time as he now says in the next line, how long it takes him to teach us something about love for Croatia and pass on all knowledge to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101695	Time I apologize, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure to the previous injury, so she gets a warning from the lady. [[Intruding Chicken: There will be opportunities.]] And you, please respond to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101696	I don't even remember who asked the replica anymore, I don't even know what to say. We can go to the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101697	Okay. Next replica, respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101698	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I have to be a little surprised how people, Croats, vote for those who don't do anything wrong, and don't vote for their parents. All right. The aim of the commission is actually to round up the land so that we have as little input costs in food production. But the same is the fact that if there is no 51% of those who are interested and a total of 60% of the surface area, there will actually be no membership. So this law should be a tool to arrange areas, agricultural areas that we can indeed produce as cheap food as possible and that we eat actually healthy food not only us, but also those guests who come to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101699	Thank you, well-respected colleague Simičević, in the debate on the right to read this bill I said that among the first units of local self-government, we have responded to this statement of interest, no public call, no competition where someone should receive funds for the implementation of the commission, but a statement of interest. And that's when we came up with a unique plan of compatriots and said that we have a 2 000 acres-a-half-acre-a-carre-a-carriage-a-carrying-a-carriage-a-carry-of-the-mill-a-carry-a-carriage-of-the-mill-of-the-mill-of-the-mill-the-mill-of-the-mill-of-the-mill-the-mill-the-mill-the-mill-the-sce. From now on, we know 1,000 acres is out of order, not processed, abandoned. In the meantime, there was a war in the area, we forgot about it in the last 30 years that it was living under occupation, 5 years and then returning and restoring all public buildings into its system and returning life to Slavonia which was, some have forgotten that they are suffering for Yugoslavia, occupied by the good part, and then we are talking about production. We have surfaces, we have people who are Interested in it, we'll do it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101700	Replica next, respected Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101701	Thank you, Vice President. A respected colleague today could actually hear many different opinions as well as observation in this debate. In view of your experience, I'm interested in whether it's a bogeyman's exercise, or if it's just a matter of catching up to work, working patiently and bringing this job to an end, especially now that we've been provided with NPO funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101702	Thank you, Mr. Grba Bujevic, so of course, for most people, the bauk, for 32 years, there has been no compromise. We've got geodetic experts on all systems that have that experience in their little fingers and they remember how they did it. As well as the lengths that last for years, but the situation is settled both in the records and in the field and those owners who own it enable the best possible digital, modern way to own it. Not that they have to look in the garret shop in a broken-down book that owns it. Not that they have to correct the cataster and the garter through individual procedures who owns who owns it. So, with a measurement, and a combination is a kind of measure, a new state is being established on the ground, just from zero, and then you know where your border is, where your path is and what you actually own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101703	Next replica respected Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101704	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coliga Piletić, this is how we know that it is necessary and necessary for you to do the same in your presentation all morning and here we are all day talking about it, only to point out that we have 160,000 farmers in Croatia who, despite all the difficulties they have encountered all these years, still have been engaged in agriculture and that they have been given incentives all these years and I believe that they have not all used and incentives for holiday homes at sea or for private cars, but have been very much invested in their farms. We also know the problem of the ownership of this land dealing with agriculture, and I think it's also the law that emphasized that this law is being passed because it reduces administrative obstacles to facilitate the execution of the commission as soon as possible, so I'm asking you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101705	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101706	The law is therefore a simplification of the commission, the law is therefore a simplification of the procedure of how certain land is co-composed. We have one commission. That same commission, not the ones who allegedly read the law, so they say we don't know how many commissions. One is the commission in the measure, one is the commission in the commission. And the greatest role, therefore, is played by the proper judges, so they decide what kind of condition will be established. Based on their solutions, owners or participants of the commission can file a complaint, a complaint and then, of course, there is a procedure. As for the fact that you mentioned cars, I am sorry that my colleague Troscott said that EU fund farmers first get a car. I invite him, as he was in Novland once before, to sit down and go from one farm to another and see what kind of vehicles they got, whether these are tractors that are necessary for quality agricultural production or for them to show off. The city's peak. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101707	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the respected Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101708	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, doctoring the parliamentary representative for reasons that Novska is not or Mayor is not the center of the world. So there are many examples in Croatia where money has not been used for agriculturals First of all, you are insolent, but you are insolent. [[Very little.]] It just shows your bloating presence all day in the assembly. [[Intruder: Please do not enter the word.]] So there are many examples in Croatia where money was not used for agriculture and this is the finding of the State Audit. If you don't read and find, that's your problem. And I will be very glad to receive this warning. [[I don't have time like you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101709	You said yourself, you're getting a warning. The next replica of the respected Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101710	Thank you, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President. Your Honor, you said the facts that are true in your debate. I can't say anything against them. It's true that for 30 years, and there was no more communication. It's true that we really don't see that result, and the question is when we're going to see it, but let's see to the end the exact fact. As you've been dealing with those cards, let me have no map but as I haven't seen your hard enough to see on my screen, Croatia has 556 units of local self-government, 3,300 catastrian municipalities, this is from the official site of the State Geodetic Institute where these tiny green spots are catastrian municipalities that are made as they belong and there is about 8 to 9%. It took us 30 years to get 8 to 9%. How many years do you think it takes us to take down all 3,300 catastrian municipalities? to get the investment conditions? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101711	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101712	I wish I could answer this question very quickly. You know, you've been involved in the processes yourself, you've been a responsible person, which means establishing order on the ground. The state geodetic administration is currently under way in the process of taking care of all the catastrian borders of certain catastrian municipalities with the settlement. I mentioned in my discussion, so I have a few examples in my JLS where the situation of the settlement and the catastrian municipality is not settled. We expect very quickly that this is exactly what the DGU will do through a simple process of establishing the borders of the Catastrian municipalities. It's one of the steps we're going to get in the field. Why did I mention the measurement several times? Well, just because the experience we have on the measurement that took almost 10 years, today we have an orderly situation on the ground, and when my entrepreneur comes looking for a plot, I open it on a paper-free screen, click on the plot, and I say how much it costs, and what is a cadastral particle. That's the point, and I believe that's what you wish for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101713	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101714	I was born in the country and lived in the country, so I'm just going to talk about this piece. I remember when I was a kid so the older people would dig in with a mop and, of course, they'd ask other people and neighbors to dig in with a hoax and then they'd come along if you couldn't lend me a hoax. What a commitment to the country that peasant would say to my neighbor or someone else who were there would have said that I had this no-day pole without myself, so I don't give the hoax without myself. How attached they are to agriculture in much more difficult conditions, and you can make a fellow galamite from the bench, you can do whatever you want, of course, that Ante Sanader won't warn you if he lets you do it, and you don't care, it's makeup, tie and arrival here rubs the grandmother's flax, at least be polite, so listen to yourself, Pawne, there are letters of Paune, so come in, then fly in. Now that the prosciutto fair in Sinj is here I invite you on Friday to the Dalmatian prosciutto on Friday and Saturday in Sinj, it would be good for you all to come to the prosciutto fair. Let us say two words, at least allow it, behave. So I said a short, a lot of time this took a shouting out of the bench. The older people kept so much to the ground that they didn't give the hoard without themselves, he didn't make the hoof, he went with that hooch to dig, and we have today and it was a lot more unworked country and now that there wasn't a Austro-Hungarian in the areas where I came from we wouldn't have any, so we have to own the property, but in one institution, in another institution, it's so much cabbage and negligent and now, of course, Pilateski washed the hands of all governments, everyone who was, all the institutions and said we won't leave it like that anymore. So is it such a simple process, so who's going to have, so what are you talking about, so right now, we don't have a minister here, we have to donate, we don't have enough food, so last year we've produced half as much pomadors or tomatoes as the year before, fruit and vegetables twice as much, so we're in the problem of self-sufficiency. At this point we have the cheapest country in the EU agricultural, the hectare is about 3,000 euros in Croatia, and in the Netherlands agricultural land that is much more toxic believe me, the ecologically unpreserved is 60 and some thousand euros, 20 times more expensive in the Netherlands, and I gave the law to my colleague Troscott, the Law on the Ban of Agricultural Land. If a Croatian cannot buy a natural and legal person in Hungary land then no one can buy in Croatia except for the Croatian natural and legal person and we have to protect it, but here it was targeted, because you said well the incentives were given to people who do not know how many cows have tits and therefore today we have imports of pork, there are no pigs and where there is a pig we import a soybean that is contaminated with a high level of glyphosate and it is much cheaper. So we from New Zealand here, from New Zealand, have imported a frozen lamb that was cheaper for them to bring us here than it is for the flames because the deadline is up and, of course, people are buying with low-income frozen lamb. We have this problem, and that's how we destroy our domestic producers. We have huge potential not to trip the poster behind us now but to triangulate emergency measures, if the time is now crops then we must, what is the problem, artificial sneezing that the man has products, has a quality product to work for, but it is impossible for him to buy a hundred kilograms of artificial sneezing to give nitrogen to the country and the product. Why? Because he's a thousand kunas, he can't make that much money on the ground, so we have to react spotlessly. We are here to discuss and oki triba talk about the commission, the triba talk about irrigation, the triba talk about Straight Wheels, Skradin, I don't know, Zagori, Gorski Kotar, everyone has all the potential, but at this point we must be aware that the problem of food, energy, energy and water, and at this point we have all these potentials, and we are discussing cohesion, for 30 years. We didn't do anything, absolutely nothing. I expect you to tell the minister to give the government an absolute subsidy to the lowest level of artificial sneezing, which is at present the most important for the village and peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101715	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101716	I'm giving up Vice President, I don't think it would make sense, you wouldn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101717	Okay. Replica Honored Representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101718	Dear colleague Bulj, I would like to thank you once again for your engagement and contribution, if it hadn't been for your vote, there would have been no request for the moratorium of our land and what you were already talking about, so you would already be buying land because they are 20 times cheaper than certain countries in the EU. What we can't really do is agree with our colleagues, what's a fact is that nothing was done. Today the data came out that our diaspora, our people who moved out of your neighborhood, from the end of Slavonia, had paid five billion euros last year. So here's the economy, not that nothing's been done, people are being expelled, people are making money there, and they're paying for our economy that's bigger than our budget's health. And we can't conclude that nothing has been done about it. And what's the problem? The problem is that it was these people from your neighborhoods from Slavonia who had to move out so they could finance us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101719	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101720	Well, unfortunately... statistics like we've never had fewer residents in the free Republic of Croatia. So before there were many more people, fuller villages, farmed land was, every square was cleaned, every house had one, two, three cows, produced labored. I wasn't at sea by 18 now, because I had to do it, I had to sell it on a towel, I had to wear it myself, so it was food, but we weren't hungry. But now all the blackberries, blackberries and weeds. So what happened? What happened? We, I ask myself a question where did we go wrong? We don't have any food. Let's get rid of the hoard like the devil of a incense. What are we doing? What we're doing here and we're talking about commission, now with this technology. My first move was to cooperate with the University of Split that the Agricultural University would be in the city of Sinj and will be signed and will be. Why? Because we don't transfer knowledge traditional or according to modern technologies that we accept, we're doing nothing about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101721	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101722	Okay, thank you. I'd like to refer to one thing that I'm going to call Mostt's paradox, your colleague Rasdic said in his replica that we have to produce something that is profitable, which is worth it. We, of course, agree here that we must invest in our agriculture, that we should strengthen agriculture, but what Most often does not understand is that state subsidies are particularly crucial in agriculture. We give agriculture 10 times more subsidies than shipbuilding, and your representatives will very often say what if it's not a cost-effective cut, it's not cost-effective to be on the market. What I'm saying is, there's no successful agriculture or shipbuilding without the support of the state and without the protection of the state. In that, of course, we agree somewhere, but you often identify the state with Plenkovic, the state is not Plenkovic's. So Plenkovic is an anomaly of the state and it should in some ways always be considered, when I talk about state subsidies, here is especially for agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101723	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101724	I am not comparing my country of Croatia with Plenkovic absolutely, I am looking at something else in the foundations of the country, I am looking at my fellow fighters who have given their lives through history for Croatia and all the people who have given pain to an independent Republic of Croatia. I don't know what kind of pain Plenkovic had, very minor, irrelevant, something in the MVEP when it was meant to be with a rifle in a trench, but about that, according to that. I would just briefly say here that Croatia must have a strategy I think we can't forget agriculture and food, and better encourage food and be self-sufficient than be hungry because in crisis situations and threats where we are now, there can be food shortages, and we are becoming less and less productive. More and more weeds take over our agricultural land, so 700,000 acres of raw agricultural land. We must, it is the obligation of the state, that the strategic energy, agriculture and water that we have the potential to survive in difficult situations we are in a position to be addicts, dependent on who knows who, and everyone will raise their hand [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101725	Next replica, the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101726	Just as chronic capitalism should not be identified, as unfortunately today is on the stage in Croatia with a free market. When I say crown capitalism, I mean pseudo private entrepreneurs who have never done business on the market, but thanks exclusively to political ties and to the state, so there is no need to identify the planned economy and socialism with a healthy incentive policy. The incentive should be a push in order to help farmers to stand on their feet and survive as a healthy entity, not to function for years or decades as someone who acts and fines agricultural production, and in fact could not survive without incentives in the long term, this is the case. But I wanted to ask you one other thing. In another context I was already quoting in the assembly... Beru and his answer to the question had a difference between theory and practice, he says in theory there is no, but in practice there is. I don't see that any serious field research has been done on several points in Croatia as many people are willing and motivated to play. You know your sonic terrain well, which seems to you what will happen in practice. When does this start? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Will people be willing? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101727	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101728	Unfortunately, we have a lot of empty areas, a burned country, and these are the people who send five billion euros to send us signs from outside, processing other people's fields and sending money to Croatia, and that is why we remain, unfortunately. Well, that's one of the problems, I said in my first sentence when I was little I was dealing with agriculture then the older people would then ask if someone would help them dig, bathe with the hoard. This one would say I can't lend you a hoof... something I don't give the hoof without me how attached they were to the ground. So the country worked a lot harder than today, but it worked. He bathed in the sun, the heat, the rain, it worked. And now that we've got it all, it's all been targeted and of course that that commitment to that country for three decades, three centuries, no one's passed on from the owner to the owner will be an almost impossible job. Don't crush like geese in the fog [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The remains of the rest of the village. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101729	Dear Marin Miletic next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101730	Thank you, Vice President of the HS, Mr. Sanader. In 2009, we brought in the first, I mean, neither you nor I, but the first strategic document was passed, so we had 2015, and now in 2022 we are ruling because there is their greatest responsibility thinking about what processes to encourage, so all our peasants, farmers to round up particles and yet in terms of agriculture as such. I wonder if you think that this third happiness will succeed from your life experience and political experience and what you in your town of Sinj do here as mayor of agriculture and for all your farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101731	Well, I'll start at the end, thank you very much for asking. So we had incentives of 700,000 kuna for agriculture that we gave the program as a councilman's club in the last term that was accepted. Now it has increased 40% of the amount of funds, with it being, and the programme being in public consultation, it has already passed on to the city council where all farmers will be affected by this amount of just over a million kuna. But we are local self-government, and I hope to increase those resources in the area of the town of Sinj for farmers. For farmers, we need to look for models mainly for smaller OPGs. Do not consider smaller OPGs to be of no importance, even if it was of extra value. Because I can explain my case. My father worked, he was a transport worker in Dalmatia, my mother was a housewife. She had three kids. We farmed land, sold milk, sold dairy products, sold in a towel or in a market. That's how I grew up. We weren't hungry, but every inch of the country worked in much more difficult conditions than farmers today, and today it's all weed. There's a problem. So we destroyed the spirit of the village and the peasants And then Stjepan Radic turns in his grave. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101732	The next replica of the esteemed Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bully, 30 years ago I was having a conversation... then as Head of the Property and Legal Service in Sisak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to admit, it's not really an easy job, and then there was no digitizing and clicking and opening particles. I am interested in the fact that the holders of the local self-government unit and the city of Zagreb are actually local self-government units and you as body leader probably know that they have even administrative capacity to carry out the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101734	Thank you very much for the key question of amending the law. Everything that has not been done, institutions since 2009 before irrelevantly and which institutions all want to transfer to local self-government that has neither human nor financial capacity. The county has taken over 58 laws we've changed, the inspection of Andrija Mikulić who visits me daily, punishes me, no longer knows who's coming, leaves. But the fact is, with local self-government, it's a pilot's attempt at this bill of piling hands. Here we are before the Easter time, as Jesus was crucified. And once again, I said here publicly, here I was the other day, the other day at the veterinary center and really during you were running that veterinary center and coming to an end. Thank you to everyone who participated and who will help our OPGs to feed 180 users, now to tie these OPGs together. These are the projects that matter. It started then during your government, you were then in the ministry and Fred Matic. That's true, and everything else is a lie and a demagogy I've been hearing lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101735	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101736	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law adopts the concept of the Institute of Commission, allowing a more simple procedure and clearer demarcation of the jurisdiction procedure to be initiated after three decades, and to speed up the process of co-operation. We have received support for this from the EU, the European Commission for the implementation of this law for the next 4 years from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, 263 million kuna, from the National Funds 50 million, and I think that 313 million kuna is a good guarantee that we will combine these 18000 ha for which it has been carried out before and before the will to go into the compromise. Of course, we must not stop there, but we should continue to plan and ensure further coordination. Agricultural land is a complex interdisciplinary agrotechnical measure. For its purpose, it has not only the rounding of agricultural land but also the setting up of real-law and other relationships, as well as the position of abandoned agricultural areas. Our problems are a major fragmentation of parcels, and unprocessed land with of course a weak infrastructure around these land. At the same time as one of the main problems is unresolved ownership relations, non-compliance with land books. In addition, it should be achieved that participants are granted new land of equal value in as few cadastrian particles as possible. In the light of the above, it is highly complex and comprehensive, but at the same time over the necessary procedures requiring certain expertise and specialised knowledge of those leading the procedure in question and significant administrative and technical capacity. The most important thing to realize is that our agriculture, our agricultural land is identical to our important resources to water, sea, coast, our islands, especially in the world of emerging serious food disturbances. We must realistically look at the new situation, contribute and implement legal decisions for the sustainable future of Croatian agriculture. The proposed law primarily provides for units of local self-government to be the bearer of communication. There's a really big task ahead of them, but of course that commission can be carried out by the ministry. In view of the economic nature of the implementation of the commissions, the possibility of the joint launch of multiple municipalities and to reduce the costs of the procedure through the insurance of one working body could be considered here, and to allow savings through joint procurement. I think it's possible to do that because it's the ministry that's doing the same thing. The agricultural land industry gives us a series of benefits. I'll just mention some. Production surfaces are increasing, allowing modern land treatment technology to be applied, reducing cost of production and transport, increasing labour productivity as particles are larger and regular, also increasing the transparency of properties, allowing timely detection of pests and various diseases. Furthermore, assumptions are being made for more efficient implementation of the spatial plan, i.e. planned infrastructure building, road networks and sewers, and conditions are being created for disposal, but also for irrigation because we know that regulation of the water regime will increase the fertility rate of the soil. The industry will increase the value of agricultural land, of course the higher yield of agricultural cultures is expected, somewhere in the wheat it is about 9%, would have a significant impact on the development of the CAP, which is of paramount importance to us because we would prevent the death of our villages. I believe that we are all complex in the vision of agricultural development means that we want to produce a higher quantity of high-quality food at competitive prices, manage natural resources in changing climate conditions, and contribute to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas. I therefore believe that there is no reason here for both the skepticism and some abstention, I believe that this law should be passed because this is an opportunity, it is one of the tools for improving and recovering and developing agriculture in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101737	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101738	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague. If it's in anyone's best interest to make land, then it's the farmers who make the food. You have a farmer who has six parcels of different, he must come six times to each plot, automatically have a higher cost and clearly that and the final product means the entry price is much higher and that the products will eventually be more expensive. And now if the state invests more than 200 million kunas to make order, we've already dared it here, some, I haven't, but some of it won't be anything, that it's all going down and that it's a crazy waste of money. So let's give it a chance, let's give it a chance to do that, and it doesn't take a century, this should be solved within the next two to three years, and so if we do that, we'll allow our farmers to work and so they'll have a much smaller import cost than they've had so far when they have two, three. five or seven pitches. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101739	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101740	Right, this law gives such farmers the opportunity to carry out the commission, but of course it's not all of them's interests. We listened to a colleague, Lenart, who probably circled something himself, and he's afraid that he might lose those parcels, but here's a colleague who worked here in the property relations in the accounting of ex-commissions, and I, as a young engineer, worked, means about those parcels where they're large and they don't usually touch, and they're added a little bit on the side so that's going on, so we have a variety of interests. And this law has made it possible to use it, so if 51% of the people who are on that cluster say... the interest in compassessing, and their area is 60, I think 67% of the total gromada. So it's not going to be big or small, it's simply to make one agreement who wants and who can use this instrument and it's good to say to reduce the amount of these unprocessing surfaces, one instrument, and there are even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101741	The next replica honours Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101742	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State Majdak. Dear colleague. Today we could actually hear from one of the MPs here, I'm sorry I can't remember now who exactly said that in time and the former state that there's been more devastation of land than it's been over the past 30 years. What do you think that's all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101743	Well, well, more parliamentary representatives and colleagues... talked about how it's been done in the last 15 years, and I personally took part in the last commissions as a young engineer in performing the work as a pyrotechnician. In fact, the commissions were then only worked where the PICs were interested, so from '56-'90. It was the interest of the PICs, first of all, of the arondation, and it's not a complex process for you where everyone gets into that gromad, but the PIC comes in and we make 10 parcels per 100 hectares, we make a channel and a canal network, and these we're going to finely move there to someone else, even in not the same catastrian community, or normally the one who's not going to move somewhere or get something that's not good will get compensation for the damage, and that's how it's headed into that circle. Compassion is a more complex problem, procedures were done in the late '90s where both waist and waist were respected and everything else was slightly different. Of course, property relations have been dealt with differently, and I don't want to talk about it here. And here it's given to At the disposal of all those who participate in it to decide whether to participate [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101744	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101745	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. How important is this debate today, which has been going on for several hours. We are all aware that the problem of growing on weeded particles, unresolved property relations, distance between parcels affect the development of agricultural production. And to us Slavs agriculture is priority no. 1, and we see that in showing interest in the commission, there is one municipality in our county. As the President of the County Assembly, you are certainly well aware of the availability of agricultural land, but also of the needs of competition and interest in our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101746	Thank you very much for asking. It's true that the Gundunci municipality thinks it has expressed interest in the commission, it's a small municipality in the east of our county that deals exclusively with agriculture and I think they've done that one procedure of assigning agricultural land. So that part they've done I think they're completely interested in it now and rounding up the trust of those particles, I haven't been involved in that process and that they'd have less costs and better production and I think that's just fine. But I spoke today, and when I asked the secretary of state how many we have to say arable surfaces, 103.315 hectares, and 38,440 particles or hectares are not in the ARCOD, it does not use that support. I'm not convinced that all these 38,000 are not working, they're working, but in these very arondations you have particles inside that remain legally unsolved because it's not solved, it's not solved during that arondation and they're not in the ARCOD but they're being processed and it's good to process, but it needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101747	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club of Honored Representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101748	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the end of today's debate, we will all agree that the development of agriculture and production is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the commission is of additional value both of strategic and national interest. According to the applicable Cooperation Act, as many times as we have heard today since 2015, no proceedings have been initiated. During 2016 we had completed pilot projects in five counties. Among other things was the Brod-Posavina County which is now running again, i.e. the municipality on which hundreds and hundreds of hours of professional work were invested. At the time, it was a political decision not to finance a single compromise procedure in the Rural Development Programme from 2014 to 2020. We now have an ex-post mind, and yet the ministry has found that there is no development of agriculture without a development strategy that includes cohesion. That's when a lot of conversations, presentations, meetings, conversations with farmers were held. The reactions to the cohesion were different in these pilot projects from those that embraced and praised such solutions that those who were actually concerned about being damaged which would be safe and now the anxiety is determined if these proceedings were at all because we had the opportunity to carry out the process of membership, and finally because of the different, or ultimately political decision was not implemented. At a public call this year or at the end of last year, the ministry called and reported on 23 local self-government units that would have to return to a new public call because it was actually a sort of poll. The public invitation was then called upon under the applicable 2015 law with the skipped provisions proposed by the new proposal. The content of the law itself is quite chaotic and difficult to monitor, and we do not know which way the ministry bypasses the Institute of Appeal and introduces an administrative dispute which represents an additional cost to potential users. We propose, as we did in our first reading, two programmes. The multiannual programme would be brought at the level here in the Croatian Parliament, and the annual programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture would prepare an annual programme on the basis of a public call made and a decision on areas eligible for the implementation of the delegation. There is a confusion over a public call to be published under the proposed provisions after a proposal for an idea solution has been drawn up. What does that mean in practice? That units of local self-government are developing a proposal on their own cost, and only then after the ministry's public invitation is it decided on which proposals the idea solution will be co-financed. Those units whose proposals will not be accepted have actually spent their resources in vain. We stress that according to the final proposal of the law, the holders of the commission may be units of the local self-government or the city of Zagreb, but not units of the regional self-government, i.e. the county, although in a public call from the end of last year, countys were invited to deliver statements of interest. Our numerous proposals in the first reading that we have specified have been rejected, so we will refer to these additional amendments that we will be making tomorrow. What is being imposed as a legitimate question is the duration of the process of co-composition, the readiness of the local self-government that we have heard about many times today and that the work of the commission is crucially transparent. How much of this can be ensured today, and how demanding it will actually be for local leaders, this practice will show us. In any case, the fact is that due to the fragmentation and weak infrastructure the prices of agricultural land in Croatia are among the lowest. The average is 3400 euros per hectare, while there are up to 70,000 euros per hectare in the Netherlands. Now we have a proposal that 18000 will be co-massed in agricultural land, which is a small area, if we also take the fact that there are 700,000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land. As far as this law is concerned, we will look for reports, follow law enforcement and call for the responsibility of the authorities, and hope that implementation will not end as five pilot projects of which there was nothing at the end. As I said, we've made a number of amendments to simplify actually the process and depending on it will be our position of the club regarding the support of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101749	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Siniša Jankac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101750	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what was said today. As one colleague said who apparently does not hear himself as “the rotten grandmother of lan” a very convenient observation of the speeches of some MPs, but here everyone can afford but should listen to himself sometimes. So the law is ahead of us, and I believe that we will soon pass this law, the law that we have heard solves and triggers the rounding of land. The importance of this rounding and of the importance of rounding up today has been a great deal of talk. What's interesting here and it's very clear and simple, and I don't see the reasons why it wouldn't be, means that we've got any insight into whether anyone's interested in it, and since the local self-government units were put on the task, then the local administration units have also shown interest, a statement of interest and, as we see, 23 local self-government units have shown interest. Of course, by the basis of that interest, it is then that the execution of the commission itself is being carried out. Here I am pleased that again without the units of the local self-government of that hated unit of local self-government, nothing can be implemented again, and among other things, everything that is done in the areas of the entire state is more or less going on with the units of local self-government, and then this law and here I congratulate all those who have the courage and who will get the energy to do it all. Normally, in order to do this, we know that 67% of the owners of the sea, to which it includes that, this area that is co-exposed must be interested and they must be the owners of 50% of that land. As far as the committee is concerned, there has been a shift in attention to the possibility of manipulating these same thieves in the local self-government unit, which is again insulting both the leaders and all employees of the local self-government units who see that a large part of the commission will be done on their backs, so if we read the law well, then we see that a commission of seven members will be formed. So the president, vice president, 5 members and 1 secretary, of which means the president will be of the order of the unit of local self-government, who will also have to give the secretary of attorneys, then representatives of the owner i.e. The owner's representative, the geodetic representative, means geodetics, representatives of the garnery, i.e. Judges, judicial advisors, etc. and two representatives in front of the Ministry of Agriculture who will ultimately run the business of complete co-operation. And what was mentioned earlier, although the possibility of appeal, objections, and of course every law must have the possibility of objecting, appeal and we know that the whole process will not be easy, it will not be easy, but that the whole, that the project and the programme of cohesion simply requires that agriculture seek it and that is the future. And I congratulate the ministry that here is the courage, and ultimately the financial resources, because all of this needs to be provided with financial resources. So 18 million kunas are scheduled in 2020, '23. 44.6 million kuna, '24, '25, '26. 90 million kuna, with everything being financed through the European Fund programme, i.e. resistance and recovery. And this is exactly the time where we have the possibility of using European funds, a good time because without funding and without a system of funding such a big deal, such a big procedure cannot be done. And here I am sorry that we have to listen to so many criticisms instead of saying that here we congratulate the ministry on what's going on and we want a lot of the success and energy of all those who will be involved in alone, in the very process of cohesion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101751	The next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101752	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleague, fellow Members, I said that the topic of agriculture I believe is the most important topic for the next 20 years, and I also told my colleagues that the other day at prayer breakfast you were there and some of you and your colleagues from the ruling HDZ party and some colleagues from the opposition to feel exactly when you talk to people regardless of the differences, because we don't have to agree, you have a family at home, so sometimes you don't agree that it feels right when someone here has some impatience. I would also like the chairman to always somehow make sure that the level of communication in this honorable house in the assembly is at the level and that we talk as people who respect each other despite the fact that we disagree perhaps on many things. I think it's very, very important. Then what I'd like is the same thing because it's about agriculture and cohesion and life. You're here older, more experienced and wiser. Listen colleagues, it's very important, it's working, for all of us, for me, there are you here more experienced, older, wiser, tell your younger colleagues that haughtiness always leads to a fall and when a man becomes arrogant he's already starting to fall but he's not yet aware of it. And I'm telling myself, I've had to get a good head to stand on the ground and look completely different around me, so I don't want what I've been through to anyone, to anyone. In 2009, we had the first strategy, so we had 2015, and here I said in the Croatian Parliament that there was some mandate I would now give it, I wouldn't know it, I would give it to the SDP, the Croatian Social Democrats, We can, I don't know, to you ruling, now if I had some mandate to give it, and we would arrange a complete project of cohesion, rounding up the land, that our farmers would work normally, that people would produce, that the OPG would work, that these import lobbys that, we have everywhere, are legitimate whether, however, to focus on our small people, on entrepreneurs. I'd give it now, now the secretary of state and sign it right now and we'd be happy, but we know from the experience we have because we're experienced in some situations that teach us where we're careful then. The kid when he burns, then he knows what fire means. And for that reason, don't take everything as an attack, at least not on my side. We said, so if I'm not mistaken, I don't belong to the Committee on Agriculture, but what my colleagues said was that a single member was only abstention if I realized correctly, that one member was abstention, and on that committee I'm sure there are both left and different parties. So, people realize that there's a need for cohesion and that we have to go that way. So whoever's in some sense reasonable, so he sees the term non-date has no other option, so you have to, you have to go that way, so there's no other way. What's important to us at the MOST Club is to make it as honest, fairer and more complicated as possible, to control the money that goes to and to make that money right. And yet again I hold that that is every reasonable thing is clear what we are saying here. I'm sorry if someone might understand differently or we're a little bit tired and we've been arguing here since the morning, and here some of our colleagues have been watching you here since morning, so someone's been eating, someone's not eating, someone's missing water for me to drink, so I don't drink as much as I need, so you're a little tense, so maybe something doesn't come out of your mouth. But here some of you have been here since nine o'clock, and now there's five and there's just chaos. So... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here's another water, water, water, energy and agriculture, self-sufficiency. It's something that doesn't have a uniform, shouldn't have a uniform, shouldn't have a color, shouldn't have some ideology because the focus should be citizens of this country, so let's at least where we can focus our strength together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101753	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101754	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the first and most fundamental problem as we see in this bill of law, the new Law on the Komassation of Agricultural Land, we see, therefore, in the fact that the assembly is being taken away from any control of the plan for the integration of agricultural land from now on by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the letter of the law, the programme is decided by the Government, and for the implementation period proposed by the Ministry according to the financial resources available. It's years old, so we've had two kinds of programs, we've had multi-annual programs and annual programs. Multi-annual programmes were brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and thus had at least some control in the way available and agricultural land, i.e. through the process of cohesion. The truth is, of course, that this law has been too complicated, that it has not been effective, that it has not really led to a greater rounding of agricultural land, but we do not see any need to move Parliament's control over the way that the work is carried out. One of the main objections of the profession to this bill is that agronomies are not included in the different stages of the process of communication. It is therefore foreseeable to reintroduce actually the geodetics most often but the participation of agronomists in each part of the procedure is not foreseen. And that's what their chamber is, but also what a number of farmers in the consultation have pointed out that it is problematic in this bill. And one of the things that we see as potentially problematic is the fact that they're designing a commercial project by external contractors instead of having them as in-house teams in the Ministry of Agriculture. So far, according to the previous law or until 2018, the idea projects have been minimally worked by the Agricultural Land Agency. It would be logical that now that we do not have it when its role has been taken over by the ministry to also create internal capacities for the development of such projects, instead of already under the text of the law, we are under the obligation to outsource the design of projects and thus create in fact a significant, significant future cost that consumers will have. Of course, there's a question of service. Therefore, the new law stipulates that if the land subject to the commission was mortgaged by the previous owner of the property that entered the commercial grumble, and they were burdened with mortgages to make a fee and instead of the real estate allocated from the cost of the property, and the mortgages that stop there will be charged by that fee. Then there is the question, in fact, of the value of the mortgage and the value of the fee, and how they, the landowners who enter that cluster, will be able to deal with it. One of the significant objections also to farmers and chambers seemed to me also in the e-consultation was that they were also holders of the division of the local self-government unit, and the secondary state, on the other hand, the commission was carried out in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, when it was already put on, in the task and obligation of units of local self-government, it should also be possible that there is no kind of arbitration by the ministry at which point the ministry will take over, however. So, for example, we have a situation so that if it is estimated that the commission is not going according to plan or it is not fast enough and effective enough that instead of the local self-government unit, the ministry enters the process. Thus, there is no record of the possibility of a legal remedy on a local self-government unit for such a decision. The very text of the law says it's a decision, we don't know if it's a solution, whether it's a administrative, administrative act, and what legal remedies are against such a decision. None of this seems to be because the association's item governing the issue of legal medicines to the ministry's decision is said to be a solution and that such a solution is not allowed appeal, but management is allowed to dispute, so there can be [[Intruder: Time.]] Arbitration in such procedures and taking over from local self-government. [[Intruder: Follow, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101755	Following is the final debate on behalf of HSS and RF MPs, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101756	Good afternoon, our colleague Lenart from our club has more or less expressed everything that is some sort of HSS and the Workers' Front and we will be investing amendments in that regard. I would only warn of what is already said, meaning this relationship of local, local self-government states one more thing that we will warn with the amendment, and that is one specific dose already in the law of that classical law of lawlessness, means that some are eligible, some being abolished. It means in the case of the allocation of direct funds. So either you get a replacement land or you get an amount in the value of your land, but in which amount, it means 90 to 120% of the value of the land, that's that Article 3(2), which we think is already problematic in itself, means that there's already too much difference. I mean, who's gonna get 90%, who's gonna give 120 percent of the value of the land. Of course, there is a huge margin for some shops that are not very fair especially when land prices are rising. So we're going to make an amendment that goes after the biggest sign being 10%, not 30%, and that would be a lot fairer for us. It has caused a lot of reaction to our colleague Lenart's exposure from our club which has hardened the meaning of both his experience and his meaning of knowledge from this area that nothing has been done in the last 30 years, but that's unfortunately so. So that's just how it is, and your HDZ deputies have admitted it themselves. So for 30 years nothing was done, in a way what my colleague Lenart warned if we destroyed the picks that were meant to be some kind of legacy of communism as he said, then later it went into a procedure that is exactly the opposite of what's useful and what's good, and now again trying to do something means round the land. For the last time, this circle has been going on in socialism, since we were 30 years old, so we haven't had anything at all. We can't say that we're satisfied if we have 8% of the combined land. I'm just going to ask the last question that's been asked in the debate, and about this subject, and what we really want is, that's the key question. If we want agriculture then this direction is absolutely not good and even from the debates of HDZ's representatives it was so clear that in those 30 years it was actually going to write down land, to carry out this legalisation to go means to sort of solve property legal relations, and not to policies that go in the direction of favouring agriculture, and we really can't, if we can be subjective in our exhibitions given our political orientations statistics is again the one that is inexorable, which is that in almost all food categories today we produce 50% less than 30 years ago. Lenart warned that the channel network had not been built in the last 30 years, that concrete silos had been made 30 years ago, and what I can say is that I heard a statement from Minister Maric at the beginning of somewhere out there a pandemic which he apparently forgot at the time, which is that now in the crown you can see how important it is to represent and maintain his own agriculture, his own pharmaceuticals. And I hope that he will keep those sentences, but unfortunately what we see now is not so in the Republic of Croatia is created 7.4 of national income, employs 14.2 of the working population in agriculture about 2.7 million hectares of agricultural land is processed only about 1.1 million. So what I said and it will always be carried out in the debate although the declared opposition is all about agriculture, but the fact that agriculture receives 10 times more incentives than shipbuilding does not mean for us that it should not receive these incentives, but it means that these incentives must be really planned and systematically arranged, not that there is anything going on. What's certainly good is to go in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101757	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives of Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101758	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, here is this debate on the Law on the Co-operation of Agricultural Law where we have a final proposal going to its end. When something comes to an end or the whole debate may well be analysed and emphasized the most important things. Everyone on which side of this pay phone they sat said that we needed the commission, all of which side of this assembly said that the commission was the last 30 years. She didn't, we all refer to a commission that was in another country in the last century, and the fact is that there was no membership behind it. In fact, all those in the area where the commission is in agreement and provided that ownership relations are resolved, or that I will refer to the provision of Article. 26. The law on the membership that says that if it isn't settled then it is settled in accordance with a special regulation. Let me just take a few sentences from what we've done in time since we've had the state in terms of taking care of the catastrophe and the garland. 2000, so 22 years ago. We passed a law that defined how we would try out from these plows and the legacy of socialism when the property was absolutely not important, and the catastra was so much recorded as how to pass, we would try out or out of that catastran that was catastre in the 19th century and then a law was passed that said that within the 10th year. Most of the Catastrian municipalities should be arranged. We have 556 JLS, 3417 catastrian municipalities, approximately 14.5 million parcels and therefore from that law that was in 2000 where we swore that in the 10th year. This is what we need to solve, the result we have in 2012, so when I speak the data then I speak the data that I download from the official pages of DGU, or from the laboratories available, by 2012. 2.1% was completed, and 7% was partially taken care of. The result of 2020 is something different somewhere around 10% of the catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia we have arranged. And now I'm also asking you colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, how do we plan on carrying out the commission on that data, how? Because what we're dealing with and what we're dealing with in space is a way that we won't be able to work. In doing so, I remind you that not so long ago, we have put in place the plan of the 10-year measure of the construction area, so measure 550, the measurements that make up 9.7% of the existing and planned construction areas, and that was about 550,000 hectares, and it reminds you of those large funds that are intended for it. So, we have now recently admitted that we have no regulated construction area existing and planned for 80% of the activity, and now we've brought a 10-year plan in which we're going to fix it. So, in order for you to be able to carry out the comms in space, we don't spend it on a month, we don't spend it on some imaginary situation, we spend it on an existing cadastre and grants, open the ARCOD, open that time any official site, and then let's say that when you see a catastre of our municipalities and cities by the sea, it's a cadastre, and when you compare it with a real state, it's really something, and the catastra is for the whole island of Vis in the sea. There won't be anything possible there, and then, I'll just end up referring to this law, a law in which, in order to get to anything at all, you have to bring four solutions that have no right to appeal but an administrative dispute, the question is at all that 2.5.g. I'm afraid the secretary of state has been whispered directly to dr. The sleeve directly from the sleeve, we have a solution to determine the land for common needs, a solution to the detachment of land for general needs, a solution to the implementation of the commission, and ultimately we have a solution to the cohesion itself. May God help us with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101759	And there follows a final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Pavić. Please put on a mask, gentlemen, everyone you don't have. - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic, please mask. Here, you can take it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101760	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I am going to say that sentence that my colleague earlier said that no one in the opposition said that it was good that it started with this and good news that the ministry had made this proposal, and not only because it was said by our fellow ruling majority, that no one said it out of opposition but because I really believe it and what the Social Democrats Club thinks. I think it's good to move in that direction, but we also think that the commission will be very difficult to implement under this law. Why is it going to be so hard to spend? We have already made a lot of suggestions and suggestions in the first reading, unfortunately nothing has been accepted and the explanations given to me by the government will not say that, that they are, that they are ridiculous but have nothing to do with the topic, because if we have found that there will be no increase in agricultural surfaces that will then be carried out, and after that, it says in the explanation that they will increase the economic effect, we did not say that this effect will not increase, we are standing behind this will, if there are rounded surfaces that will certainly be better, and the farmer will certainly have to earn more because he will not have to go to 15 parcels or 5 parcels with his machines, but it will all be determined perhaps on one or two plots, and surely the costs will not have to be so great machinery, so he will save again. However, we have a problem that I had asked a colleague just before what was going on with the funds. It says inside that the funds are reserved in the budget, so that's what the law says. But it also writes if the local self-government unit has not provided the funds in its budget that it is required to obtain consent from the ministry to make proposals for the solution in question. Therefore, unless there is money in the local self-government unit, consent should be sought for that money. You can't ask for that money by automatic means, so the problem we said was that there was a problem with financing that commission definitely still exists. We see that the funds will be reserved if they are to be booked, if the budget is to be well charged and if we are to be able to really allocate those funds to certain positions, something might be carried out. However, we still have a problem with the cohesion movement. In fact, it states in the law that the commission will be carried out if there are significant areas of agricultural land not used for agricultural production or not exploited, and 50% of that land is on the local self-government unit in the local self-government unit to be initiated. How many units of local self-government are they really going to meet this condition? Here's how many units of local self-government will meet this condition? Maybe a smaller number of units in Slavonia. But when it's going to happen, say, in Dalmatia, when it's going to happen on islands or, say, in Zagorje where the parcels are small. I asked a question, or I made a suggestion to consider the problem if there was to be a commission in the area of another unit of local self-government. In fact, we all know how the land was inherited. And usually, co-owners were of great-grandfathers, actually. Right? They had land next to the country, and often they have the same country, that is, to have land in the area of another unit of local self - government. However, this is not settled so that we will hardly implement it all together, and we will put this law in practice in the way we would like it to be. I remind you that we also warned about the Law of Reconstruction that it was not good, that we were not obeyed. We were recently talking about the Social Care Act, and we weren't being heard. Today we have big problems, you probably know that, if you don't know you have to ask around a little bit, so I ask you that those amendments that are given to accept that actually after that the law would be voted on for general satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u101761	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now because of the information requirements of the break up to 17 hours and 30 minutes. It's 5:17 p.m. We continue our colleagues, the Miro Mask, and everyone else, please, please respect this order. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.31 HOURS]] We're moving on. - Proposal for a Decision on the report on the number and credibility of the voter's signatures and the legality of the voter signing procedure and the legality of the procedures for collecting voter signatures from the application for the call for a state referendum of the Citizens' Initiative "Let's decide together" and the request for a call for a State referendum of the Civil Initiative "Enough of Staireocracy" is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article 60. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system want to further explain the proposal? Dearly respected Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the board, please let's just see a break. Here you are, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102017	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break at the beginning on behalf of the MOST Club, or else the driver of this referendum. Citizens have said their own, the number of signatures is sufficient regardless of the numerous anomalies in the voters' list because we have obviously more voters than residents. Therefore, here it is very clear, the constitutional amendment to the referendum has nothing to go to the Constitutional Court. The people are the ones who, by their will and procedure, can and have the right to change the entire Constitution. Enough signatures have been collected here, and now the people will vote legitimately when the voting time comes. What opinion, whose opinion? Constitutional Court of Constitutional Amendments. So the people can collect signatures, groups of people, groups of citizens, and thus change the whole constitution. And if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia vote, it's the Constitution. So who are we here? This is mockery and spit on the people of 400,000 people in the face. You once stole a referendum not so long ago, the people decided on the number when the law on the number of these deputies on the Istanbul Convention changed, and now you want to go to the Constitutional Court. A constitutional definition, so why so much dictatorship and the right of someone to abolish human rights and freedoms. I didn't use or ask Covid's certificates as mayor, I was mayor of all and with Covid's confirmation and without Covid's confirmation because the Covid certificates were proven, legal transmission of any sign of infection and our colleagues who were here had an infection, were vaccinations, and we had to test ourselves. Everyone has a choice. And that's why it's pointless. But as representatives, we must allow the people to vote on the amendments to the Constitution and as the people say. And the people are This time [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102018	Next request, the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102019	We're looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club in order to point out once again that in 1. The article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly and loudly states that the government belongs to the people and originates from the people. And so it should be in all democratically courteous states. Unfortunately, in these 30 years of Croatian democracy, we have only had 3 referendums so far. Of these, 2 carried out by the current government, a referendum on Croatian independence, then on EU accession and only one in front of the citizens' initiative, and this is a constitutional definition of marriage. All other referendum initiatives were rejected because of this or that reason. Unfortunately, the Institute of the Referendum in Croatia is just a dead letter on paper, a series of anomalies in the existing Law in, the referendum simply makes it impossible to conduct a referendum. And now that the people have collected a sufficient number of signatures, despite these and poor weather conditions, etc., you're looking for an assessment of the constitutionality. Every single person who's signed you've showered and you don't appreciate the citizens of this country. You have nothing to fear from your own people. Well, that same people gave you most of the time confidence in the elections less than a year and a half ago. Allow the referendum and let the people decide. If you are convinced that the headquarters made good decisions, that the headquarters made decisions according to the law, then you have nothing to fear from that referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102020	Next request, honourable representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10 minute break in order to reiterate that the position of the HDZ Representatives Club is to be addressed to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in the context of a referendum initiated by the two citizens' initiatives, so "Let's decide together" and "Enough of the Stafformation" has to be referred to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, given that within the HDZ, the largest number of prominent constitutional legal experts in Croatia is a marked dilemma as to issues which cannot be questioned in the referendum. In the club of representatives, we hold that the assessment of this is necessary, in order to assess that body which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is required to interpret the implementation of the Constitution in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court cannot prevent a referendum, nor should the amendments to the Constitution be said as follows. That democratic states in the world which have a long tradition and referendum on the one hand, and on the other hand whose constitutional courts, whose constitutional court is considered the most professional, most competent constitutional court in the world, which is the German Constitutional Court, are therefore prescribed by the German Constitution, which the topics can even be prescribed in the referendum. Our Constitution does not know this, but from the interpretation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is before, so it will also assess whether these questions are in line with the Constitution and ours. is the task if we challenge their constitutionality to refer them to the Constitutional Court. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102022	All right, we approve of everyone's breaks, but we're continuing in accordance with the rules of procedure. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102023	He's been injured. 238th Insultation and Disdainment of Parliamentarians. Some prominent constitutional experts have been mentioned, I will remind myself that two of these experts, and later I will clarify that he participated in the working group of former President Josipovic for his proposal to amend the Constitution where they have just put the epidemic in an article that speaks about the state of emergency and two-thirds that must be decided, the same ones who now say it is too in the Constitution. So much for the distinguished experts and their morals, and the third you've put on the parliamentary board and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102024	Well, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you get a warning. On behalf of the promoter, please choose the Honored President Dražan Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In front of you of the proposal, two decisions taken by the Committee on the Constitution, the Business and Political System at its session of 30 March decided to propose to the HS for adoption. As two parliamentary initiatives are known, "Let's decide together" and "Enough of Staffocracy" have submitted signatures in the request for the opening of two referendums to HS and on the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, these signatures were actually sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify their number and their validity. The government, according to the HS decision, did exactly that and submitted a report, which found that the number of signatures needed for both referendums was collected, that these signatures were credible and valid. Afterwards, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System considered this report by the government also discussed these two issues and two referendum initiatives. The two referendum initiatives adopted decisions and decisions concerning the issue of the referendum initiative "Let's decide together" took a decision by seven votes, five votes were against being referred to the Constitutional Court in accordance with Article. 85. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court determines whether the content of this issue is in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions for holding the referendum have been met. On the other hand, on the other hand, this other initiative, ‘Enoughs of Post-Corruption’, which refers to intervention in the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, has, with 11 votes against and one vote against, proposed and proposed a decision to the HS to refer the issue to the Constitutional Court for the purpose of verifying the content, whether the content of the issue is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this report we gave basic emphasis on the debate, discussions on the committee were attended by all members, all outside board members, therefore also parliamentary representatives who are not members of the board and after these discussions a lot of extensive, wide-ranging decisions were made with such votes. So here we propose that the Assembly accept these two proposed decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102026	Here's a lot of replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102027	As a former minister and as a lawyer, you are aware that the Constitution has nothing to decide on in the Constitutional Court, this is the people's collection of signatures, the people's will to decide from... means a sufficient number of signatures. With a two-thirds majority to decide whether a handful of those who have brought economic, economic downturn to Croatia with their decisions politicised by decisions, not professional decisions, and that is embarrassing. The removal of headquarters, so they introduced a covid certificate which was simply a means of legal contagion. I repeat, you've had to pass the law to punish the mayors and the mayors, I haven't used it, nor will I have the right to violate human rights and freedoms, it has no one's right without a two-thirds majority. I don't know who no one has the right to do that. You don't have to let the people decide [[Santer Invader: Time.]] This was collected by the people under very difficult conditions. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102028	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102029	Of course, the people have the right to decide, but it is a great responsibility on HS and its representatives to have the right to refer to the Constitutional Court as the basis of the Article. In 95, these two questions to check the constitutionality of the content of these issues, which is precisely what the Committee proposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102030	Mr. Bull, for the fourth time, I'm warning you, please put on a mask, if all the MPs are wearing it. Please put on a mask to violate the Presidency's decision and the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102031	Representative Bošnjakovic, the Constitutional Court should be a guardian of the Constitution and democracy, and it is difficult to play such a role if the fundamental confidence that these decisions will lead to higher goals, rather than the daily needs of the HDZ, is lost. It is difficult to maintain confidence in the constitutional court as long as the President of the Constitutional Court has some private gatherings on taverns with prominent high-ranking HDZ members and if the issue of his best man ties with one of the main founders and pillars of the HDZ is constantly undermined. The Constitutional Court has made a number of mistakes in the decision-making so far on covid measures and by referring these questions to the constitutional court now we are bringing him into a very very awkward situation, he will have to decide whether or not he will have to jump into his own mouth, and all this would not have happened. that with the covid measures is not [[Intruder: Time]] calculated in the political way of HDZ's majority. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102032	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102033	That is why the Constitutional Court has decided on such issues, and it has also decided on issues while you were the chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and has made a decision that you are the completely wrong concept in the commission's work and has announced your decisions to the unconstitutional. So the Constitutional Court is a body in which we must trust, we can comment his decisions, we can sometimes like them, sometimes we may not like them, but in any case we have to respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102034	The following is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102035	I assume it was a lapsus, al-238, that the constitutional court decided on the judgments of the high administrative court, not the decisions of the commission, so counterpart Oreshkovic was still appalled in this regard. ... Yeah, but the courts confirmed her decisions, so that's the thing inside the courtroom, not with her, so thank you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] It's a warning, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102036	Okay, you said it yourself. The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102037	Thank you. Dear colleague, please, if you could answer me very specifically, do you think that Croatia in the last 2nd year. live under extraordinary circumstances, or do you feel that these are normal circumstances? In addition, I am interested in the replica of my colleague Oreskovic, which is why HDZ refused to apply an article. 17, full 2. where those measures that significantly restrict human rights and freedoms would be decided by a two-thirds majority in this assembly, and we certainly would not have come to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102038	Thank you very much. Art. The 17th Constitution, therefore, provides for a much more complex and much more complicated decision-making procedure. The decisions made in connection with the pandemic are such decisions made on a basis or week basis, and sometimes almost one day and they require urgency, they require great operationality, and on that side the Constitutional Court has confirmed that it is a good model, that it is a model that is fully in line with the constitution and we do not see at all the problems that we are talking about at all because the Constitutional Court has confirmed it. Imagine if we here in the two-thirds assembly decided whether there would be 50 people at the wedding or there would be 100 people, we would have masks or we wouldn't have masks that would actually slow down any decisions related to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102039	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Urša Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102040	238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. I didn't say all the headquarters decisions in my question. So I said to those who restrict human rights and freedoms, and we all know very well that it's not all decisions and we all know very well that all decisions are impossible, but they matter that we would have more confidence in the citizens and we wouldn't come to this situation where we're little cleavage and all the horrors we have in terms of the epidemic, 15 thousand dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102041	You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102042	Mr. Bošnjakovic, for the sake of the Croatian public if we were alone somewhere you and I were, of course, rhetorically asked a question, but even if there were no colleagues who would laugh before I finished the sentence, and the level of communication here in HS is a very sad chairman, it's really sad, it's slowly frustrating, but it's sad, but it's good. What does it mean to you personally without a party as a man with his habitat, our world view means 400 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have given their signature and their OIB and told you that they want a referendum, let the constitutional court go, let if it is possible to let our colleagues from the ruling party, let the prime minister, let us let go, please, honestly, which means to you personally, to your habitat, 400 thousand people who came in the middle of December and asked for a referendum?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102043	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102044	Thank you very much for this question. I mean a lot of these people and I strongly respect that number, but it means as much to me as those 3 million and 400 thousand who did not go out and who did not sign it, so on this side I support that the Constitutional Court check the constitutionality of these issues because there really was a lot of doubt in all its segments about these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102045	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102046	Dear colleague, we would probably not be here today to debate that the Civil Protection Staff is not one pure political body, which, unfortunately, has primarily been making politically motivated rather than epidemiologically justified decisions, and it is clear to everyone as a day. And I'm sorry that you didn't accept the initiative that in the assembly usually means the overhalf majority have to confirm the Civil Protection Staff's decisions in order to obtain legitimacy. And this, I'm really glad that fellow Miletic asked a question, you say 400 thousand is one big number and you appreciate it, HDZ got 600 and some thousand and today it's run by the state, but then the turnout was extremely low, much higher than it should be and yet you rule the country, why don't you respect these 400 thousand people and let it simply go to the referendum, so let the people decide again, maybe you'll be right again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102047	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102048	My dear colleague, once again, I would like to point out that we strongly respect these 400 thousand people who have come out under difficult conditions and signed this, however, your claim that the political authority that has taken decisions on political principles is not in agreement here, in any case there are experts and epidemiologists and infectologists and ultimately the measures proposed by this headquarters are measures that were actually around the world. There were no curfews or anything but really what was necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102049	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102050	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, you at HDZ are headed against a referendum that encourages the people. It's clear to me, it's your position and it's a legitimate attitude. There was an exception to the marriage referendum when you were in opposition, when Malenica was a colleague of Bauk's. However, I am getting nervous here with a hypocrisy when some today appear to be people who are protectors of the referendum, and I have stepped on the referendums, and in their own time they are in a perfident way through a stupid referendum that no one knows the questions People decides to tear down a referendum on Istanbul, who have prayed to God and worked on the ground absolutely everything so that the referendum fails to protect the Croatian kuna now the main protectors of a referendum which I responsibly claim that none of the present MOSTs can say, repeat the questions for which the signatures have been collected. So that's the worst hypocrisy. But here's a question for you. What are fellow MOSTs afraid of when Corona is a lie anyway?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102051	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102052	Insulting and demeaning MPs, I say this for the sake of the Croatian public, not now because of the conscience or conscience of MP Zekanovic. First, a referendum was published on the change of that election law, and then you and yours came out with a pointless referendum on Istanbul to ruin this referendum by playing for HDZ, divided the volunteer body. As you pushed the referendum for which you collected perhaps 20, 30,000 signatures to prevent a real referendum on the euro. That was your embarrassing role.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102053	You know that this was your replica, you get a second warning. The next injury, there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102054	Dear counterpart Rasudiæ for the sake of the Croatian public does not work for you, the referendum on Istanbul was first announced, and then you and your puppets went out with a stupid referendum which you are responsible for today you do not know again the questions People decide. Your only range is Bruce Lee, and maybe you can upgrade it to maybe Jackie Chan in Zagreb and that's your limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102055	And you get a warning, because this was a replica. The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102056	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, you are basically using everything that is provided for and allowed by law. But the question is how right it is for people who have given their signature to hold that referendum. And on the other hand, we all know how they told us that the Staff was in a very narrow system, only a few people most of them made decisions that really affected fundamental human rights, limiting movement, and so on. And the question is whether this number of signatures would have been collected if the Staff had really not been intruding into these fundamental human rights and introducing covid certificates as an indirect way of forcing people to actually vaccinate. So it was proven that the covid confirmed itself did not prevent the spread of the infection, but they forced some of the people to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102057	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102058	Yes, it's very difficult to say now about Staff decisions what would happen if it were. But in any case, the consequences are very difficult. We have a very high mortality rate, a large number of people have died, and I'm afraid that the number would have been higher if the Staff hadn't made any decisions. On the other hand, I am convinced that the number of dead and sick would be much smaller, that there is a greater fissure and that more than we are from this pay phone and in public send messages to people who are vaccinated!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102059	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102060	Thank you very much. I have to do Article 238 because of the Croatian public, so the hospital's covid director has said himself that one of the causes of this high mortality is basically late arrival at the hospital for hospital treatment. So, unfortunately, our health system needs to be reformed, and Minister Beros has made an appointment and we simply have to say because of the Croatian public that things are standing. It's not just vaccination. It's late arrival at the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102061	I understand this to the Croatian public, but this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. You're getting a warning. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102062	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bošnjakovic, I have a technical question. So, Europe, which is in our perception as a general system that is extremely slow and three times on February 24th, started a war in Ukraine. That was Thursday. She's already made some decisions this weekend. We today, here is April, the signatures were collected last year, colleagues from the Most in January delivered to the Parliament, we are now discussing the decision made by our committee. What more will this request decision essentially change or essentially make? So in Croatia we have 16,000 dead by covids. All the countries in the environment read Spain has lifted masks everywhere, so Brussels and Belgium have made a number of different decisions. What will this referendum bring, essentially, now, to change in the fight against the crown?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102063	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102064	We are in a phase to decide at all whether there will be a referendum, whether or not on both issues, whether or not there will be a referendum. If there is a referendum, then if these questions are accepted, if the referendums succeed on one or another issue, then, of course, it will have implications for further decision-making and further processes, meaning for action in the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102065	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102066	Big Chesterton explaining why it's important for children to tell fairy tales, he says it's so important for children to tell fairy tales not to think there are dragons because even little children are not naive and they know that dragons don't exist, it's not about fairy tales, it's about learning to fight dragons. Those who grew up on healthy moral grounds of any religious, historical, and pop cultural models know what I'm talking about. Bruce Lee mentioned now in the assembly in that world children's mythology was a fighter for justice and truth and what formed in these children's souls by watching Bruce Lee fight hard for justice and truth against the great boss, not being a servant of the great master or being a servant, a servant, a servant of the great master. Here's the thing I'm trying to say right now is to clarify the notion of Bruce Lee and those who see the role model in the big boss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102067	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102068	Dear colleague, I'm sorry, colleague Selak. The only fairy tale you Bridges can talk about is that Russian version, since you're fans of the great Pantovkats, that's the story of Pinocchio or Buratino.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102069	And you get a warning, another warning from Zekanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo. Please don't throw each other away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102070	He's been injured. 238 people stop me on the street and ask me how many Zekanovics pay for this, I say I really don't know. Now the pregnant woman asks me one question, I really don't know I'm saying this can't be paid, what he's doing, this is priceless. But for us, but for us, but not for those who pay him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102071	You get a warning, too, because it was a replica. It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102072	Thank you very much. Art. 238, so here's after Mr. Rasdic talked about morality, etc. A colleague of Grmoy immediately appeared, and as a healthy moralist, he appeared in the assembly today, and we are pleased, but this man of honor is not, simply neither he nor Petrov nor Bulj. Why? One cheated the confirmation, the other the bet, and the third law also says that we need to trust them irrevocably and that they were the peak morale in Croatia. No, they're lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102073	You too, fellow Boric, are being warned. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102074	He's been injured. In 238, I didn't cheat, but you know what's most important, I didn't steal anything, my gods aren't Goran Puklin and the others who kept millions in their garage, I don't deal with criminals, I don't hang out with criminals, but we'll deal with criminals when we take power. Remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102075	Okay, until you take power, you have a warning and a second warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mary, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102076	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. Rule 238. When you said a pregnant woman asked and stopped you, I was wondering if that's what your colleague Selak Rasudic asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102077	All right, well, you've got the Honorable Ekovac MPs, and you've been warned. With that we exhausted the debate, exhausted the opening part of the replica. I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is the Club of Representatives Mosta, respected representatives Rasdic and Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102078	In the Western democracies at the top of the referendum law, it is to enable and regulate the referendum, with us to disable and shut down. That's right when we have a tradition called the so-called. People's authorities, who are afraid to verify the trust of the people, and the Priory is suspicious of the citizens, are oppressing the people in the name of the people in the end Brechtian opinion that the people are not right and would rather replace them because the government is of course God's day, and the people are there to keep quiet, to suffer and to be grateful. Therefore, in spite of what the constitution says, public will should be maximum limit. The first means are a high number of signatures needed to call a referendum. 10% of voters' signatures are absurdly high thresholds in most European countries, which is about 2%, and the number of voters estimated to be 3.68 million is unrealistic because according to the census results, it turns out that in Croatia almost there are no minors. Initiatives that manage to skip such a high scale, especially in winter conditions and under unprecedented political and media persecution, would at least make them scratch their heads a little bit and imagine, which motivated so many citizens in such conditions to unite and skip the ladder. A reasonable retainer would immediately call a referendum, and even more reasonable would try to reach an agreement in the assembly and install two-thirds into the constitution and in the laws what the initiative with such support is looking for. Unreasonable for some reason, he thinks that such a large number of Croats would sign for something wrongly discriminatory, bad or inconsistencies with fundamental values that connect us to a unique society. He would send a referendum question to the constitutional court and when it is crystal clear that there is nothing against it, counting that a politically excavated constitutional court on a remote control will do what the government requires of it. Now, that object is going to cost you. It's an obituary. You want another round? You'll have two and three as long as it takes. The number of people who have signed especially those who have frozen themselves on stands and suffered insults and humiliations because they believe that this state is still theirs, that what is in the first article of the constitution that says in the Republic of Croatia power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. It's not a dead letter on paper. As well as the follow-up that it says, the people exercise power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision. The number therefore, the ideals of these people oblige us to stay as firm as we can for as long as it takes. Time is on our side, and the clear will of an enormous number of citizens. If you're not going to call a referendum right away, what are you afraid of? It's not that you don't think that most citizens, for some reason, really want to consider limiting their rights and freedoms to be decided by a simple half-breeding majority, not 2/3 as we're looking for. You can't imagine how satisfied people are that, in the fall or the first of their lives, they are managed by the famous Civil Protection Staff, where the least doctor is and for which we have drawn your confession that he has met only a few times in full, and that all decisions have been made by a narrow group of people. What people? Not that you don't think most people aren't for Covid's confirmation, that license to move, work and life they need to be given power. So call a referendum and confirm yourself to that majority of yours. During the media battle we have been through for months we have also witnessed the months-long public self-indulgence of the on-call regime constitutional experts. The Cantian issue of criticism of the pure mind, as possible synthetic courts and priorities, has been implemented by one expert in practice as the exercise of constitutional legal courts and priorities declaring it an unconstitutional issue that we have not yet formulated, let alone publicly announced. The same one today says that adding an epidemic is in Article 17. The constitution was overly redundant, and it worked together with counterparts Smerdel, Gardasevic and Podolnjak in the group that made the text of constitutional changes for Ivo Josipovic, who hoped to receive a second term, then did not get it. We have that text. They considered that natural disasters should be further clarified in 2014 and added the epidemic to Article 169 of their proposal and that 2/3 of the majority should be decided on. And today the same ones are telling you the opposite. That the introduction of an epidemic or pandemic in the Constitution is too high. So who's there? On 9 January 2016, in an interview with the Evening List of the former President of the Constitutional Court Jasna Omej on the question of how we are openly advocated by the Court of First Instance because it was not long before the new judge was elected, so the euthanasia of the Constitutional Court responded, in principle if the amendment to the abolition of the Constitutional Court was allowed at all, such a decision on the amendment of the Constitution would have to be made at the referendum, Jasna Omrej, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102079	Please, representatives of the Grmoy and Troscott, put on a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102080	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader with an associate, respected colleagues, colleagues, I won't keep my mouth shut, you know that we teachers hear. Yesterday, data came out on all the American networks and mainstream media, so I hope some majorstream media will pass it on to us tomorrow, too, the day after that, that Pfizer got the verdict from the U.S. courts that, here I am with a lawyer here on Twitter, so he sends me exactly not to make a mistake, so they knew for a long time that the immunity of the over-protection was better than double vaccination. They knew that, they had this data they were hiding for profit. And yesterday, the mainstream media released the US and I call on the Croatian media only the truth as it is for us, for everyone, only the truth. I asked Minister Barroso's parliamentary question if he knew because, by his logic, he should have known if he knew the Croatian people wouldn't forgive this. I'm serious. So, if the people who run the state knew that the immunity of the over-experienced protects better and better quality than any vaccines, and they kept quiet, then they would file a political account. Secondly, I asked Minister Beros, and I sent him a representative question as to why the state paid 30 million kuna from the American company Roche the drug that stopped using, stopped using Covid. We got him after the Americans stopped using him we ordered him and paid for him. So, if the Croatian people went wrong, you'll pass the political bill. So in the forest communication we talk very clearly all the time. The government comes from the people, we won't allow legitimate means, we're not barbarians who got off the tree, the democracy is, it doesn't suit me that you're in power, but I respect it, so I don't have any problems, legitimately, so I don't have any problems, so the prime minister was sitting there so if anyone jumps under quotes I jump but legitimately, he's chosen, I respect it. Do you understand me, it means that, but I think so, but I have the right to speak for my habitat and my conscience of conviction. Citizens in the middle of the winter have signed, 400 thousand people are looking for a referendum, so let them hold a referendum for you, as he would say, against the vote, but they have the right to go out, let's not take that right away from them. The people of our country have the right to be free, so here are some and among you ruling, here is my Miro Bulj, so you fought for it, man, so you fought for it in '91, my nephew, so our parents, the fathers, so they fought for freedom, so they didn't fight for someone else instead of the people to be the one to say what we have right to think, and what we don't, give us a referendum, give us a referendum, and these political games don't appeal to anything, I don't believe in generalization, from me you won't hear generalization, but individuals who ate, and they did seem to have information, and they've been hiding it, but they won't sleep peacefully, they won't sleep, as long as we have to fight for the truth whatever it is that everything that comes out. The Croatian people have the right to the truth, give us a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102081	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Vesna Nadj. Miro Bulj, the mask... Then change Miro. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102082	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS at its 30th session of 30 March 2022. He corrected the report on the number and credibility of the voters' signatures and the legality of the process of collecting voters' signatures from requests for a national referendum, the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" and the requirements for the call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enough with the Stogeocracy" delivered to the president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We reiterate that the existing legal framework that regulates the referendum in one word is undermining because the correct deadlines for verifying the signatures to be carried out by the organisers are not prescribed, nor are the deadlines, nor are the criteria, nor are the manner of verification to be carried out by the public authorities, only the deadline within which the Constitutional Court should decide on the fulfilment of the assumptions of the referendum and the constitutionality of the referendum issue, which is 30 days since such a decision has been requested by the HS. That deadline is provided for by the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law. Although the State Election Commission and the DIP would, according to the provisions of the Bill on Referendum which was discussed in the first reading in HS, be the authority to monitor the referendum initiatives and the procedure for establishing the number and validity of the signatures, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system did not accept the proposal for opposition representatives to be in charge of verifying the number and credibility of voter signatures and requests to call the state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" and the request for a call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enoughs Stogerocration" has already entrusted this to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with established practice. Following this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted, on 23 March 2022, a report on the verification of the number and credibility of the voters' signatures and the legality of the voter signing procedure and requests for the call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Let's decide together’, stating that 370,310 credible voters' signatures were collected, or more than 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia and the request for the call for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Stocerocracy’, which stated that 372,635 credible signatures of voters and more than 10% were collected. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system unanimously adopted that report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Among constitutional experts, but also among lawyers and laymen in this area, there is no agreement on whether this situation in which we have found ourselves is caused by the pandemic of the covida-19 virus, a condition which requires the application of Article 19. 17. The Constitution of the Art. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia offers the criteria for limiting human rights and freedoms in emergency situations, and prescribes who and when, and how does it decide on the restriction of rights and freedom, which specific principles should be respected, prohibitions of discrimination, and proportionality in a specific form of suitability of nature and executions, and finally which specific rights enjoy special status when it comes to restrictions? So art. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that during a time of war or direct threat, independence and unity of the state, and major natural disasters of individual freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited. It is decided by the HS to a two-thirds majority of all MPs, and if the Assembly cannot meet the President of the Republic. The scope of the restrictions must be appropriate to the nature of the execution, and that the consequence cannot be an inequality of persons with respect to race, skin color, sex, language, religion, national or social origin. Even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the State, the application of the provisions of the Constitution on the right to life, the prohibition of torture, cruel or humiliating treatment or the punishment of legal determination and criminal acts and penalties, and of freedom of mind, conscience and religion cannot be limited. So this pandemic covid-19 could have been subjected to a syntagma of major natural disasters. With regard to the occurrence of an emergency situation in the event of a major natural disaster, it does not mean the termination of HS work. In the event that the disease caused by the covida-19 pandemic could not meet with representatives instead of them, both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would decide together in order not to block the government as prescribed by Article. 101. The Constitution of the In the case of direct endangerment and independence, and the uniqueness and survival of the State shall mean art. In 101 or when the authorities of the State have been prevented from exercising their constitutional duties regularly, the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the President of the Government and, with its signature, adopt regulations with legal force. It should be pointed out that laws that do not apply to human rights and freedoms of HS can continue to be passed by a simple half-dominated majority. Correct application of Art. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clear and refers exclusively to the possibility of restricting constitutional rights and freedom for which the two-thirds majority of all MPs are then exceptionally prescribed. Therefore, the Social Democrats' Club believes that HS and under the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia could have implemented an article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the pandemic of Covida-19 and its impact on the life and health of citizens is a sufficient natural disaster and that this constitutional referendum on Article 17. However, we do not consider that there is a constitutional obstacle to the epidemic, or pandemic, being mentioned in Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that it should not be sent to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, should the referendum issue of the Civil Initiative be decided together, i.e. whether you are in favour of Article 17(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia changes and reads etc. In wartime or direct wartime, the threat, independence and unity of the state, and major natural disasters, and the epidemic or pandemic of individual freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited. It is decided by the Croatian Parliament by a two-thirds majority of all MPs, and if the Croatian Parliament cannot meet on a proposal from the Government and with the co-signation of the Prime Minister of the State. Therefore, we believe that the Government needed Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to the Croatian Parliament the application of Article 17. The Constitution and propose a suspension of certain human rights. This would solve legal doubt among constitutional experts, let alone the general public. It is clear that the Government has nevertheless reached out for the application of Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which stipulates that freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. And now we come to decisions of the Staff that were not equal for all, depending on whether they were referring to the ruling political elites or to the so-called so-called political elites. ordinary citizens, which was certainly frustrating for the citizens. In addition, the decisions of the Staff did not get the expected results, which also led to the high mortality of the citizens due to the disease of Covid 19 and relatively low response to vaccination, which could obviously have prevented so much mortality, so over 15 and a half thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So he died more than he did in the Homeland War. The Croatian Parliament has decided, in particular, to take into account the nature of decisions effectively and quickly in order to protect people's lives and health, to apply Article 16. A constitution that determines how freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. That procedure was assessed by the Constitutional Court as correct. The main problem is that the decisions of the Staff were not only purely operational, so when certain freedoms and rights were limited by the Constitution of such a decision, the Croatian Parliament had to make two-thirds majority in order to reach a wider social consensus on certain restrictions on human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. So, if human rights and freedoms were limited to issues guaranteed by the Constitution to decide by a two-thirds majority, a wider social consensus would be reached that this pandemic is a major natural disaster and that we should all participate in its conflict together, so the results in its prevention would be far better. The worst of all that the Civil Protection Staff has been politicised to the extent that it has tightened or dismissed measures towards the political needs of the ruling, thus losing any professional credibility and ultimately the citizens no longer believed them. The Social Democrats' Club agrees with the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to ask the Croatian Constitutional Court of Croatia to determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to call a state referendum. We believe that this referendum issue is not well prepared and that any decision taken at the operational level to protect the health of citizens in the pandemic is not possible to make in the Croatian Parliament which, due to the slowness of decision-making, could not effectively protect the pandemic's health and life of citizens. It is also doubtful whether the referendum issues can be entered into the authority of the executive body in relation to the transitional and final provisions of the referendum issue and the decisions which have ceased to apply, i.e. we agree with the reasons of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102083	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102084	Thank you. There's a folk saying that man and cargo know more than man. Now that's your first referendum question. A man would be a great natural disaster, and the cargo would be a pandemic or an epidemic. And the man and the cargo, so the pandemic of the great natural disaster knows more than the very great natural disaster. Therefore, there is no rational reason to send the first constitutional referendum issue to the Constitutional Court. So if we change the Constitution either in the Parliament, or in the referendum, it is constitutional in itself, because if the citizens have signed and the people have voted and there is no further threat to the fundamental rights and fundamental values of the Constitution, then this is what I will use the term that my colleague Rasudic put on the obituary. There you send to the Constitutional Court for what you can and can't do anything. Okay. But then, of course, it's legitimate on the other side to be a little more firm. As for the second referendum, so-called The legislative question here was supported by the Proposal for a Committee on the Constitution, i.e. we voted for a decision to go to the Constitutional Court on this second issue. And there in a minute and 20 seconds would end everything you should say, what you should tell me about these topics. Who wants to argue that the second question is constitutional, write to the Constitutional Court. Who wants to argue that it's unconstitutional to write to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will answer something about that. As the Constitutional Court decides, the Parliament will act and there should be no major problems. So for the next eight minutes, we can talk about the Constitutional Court. Now there's an interesting story. A colleague from MOST very often wishes to object a little to us so-called. The old political parties, they say the Constitutional Court is the result of HDZ and SDP agreements. And that's exactly what's much better than the consequences of HDZ and HDZ agreements. Isn't it? And this was inserted into the Constitution in 2010 at the request of today's President of the Republic, so that, with certain criticisms, this constitutional court composition of everything they said about him is the best composition we have ever had, believe it or not. Of course there have been good decisions, there have been bad decisions, and most... decisions that have not been made, which is that in this situation pandemics have not clearly distinguished what the executive authority or what Parliament can make per article. 16. common majority, and for which the two-thirds majority per article is required. 17. because then both those in power and those in opposition would know when they have responsibility only by ruling, and when we have to share responsibility because if a decision that the two-thirds majority would need hypothetically was not made, then the authorities would also say that Bauk, Grmoja, Nadj, Oreshkovic, Raukar, blamed for a larger number of deaths because they had not made any decisions, if you had listened to us there would be less. And this is how you're exposed to the opposition's criticism that a) you didn't want to share responsibility, b) you didn't want to reach a large enough social consensus and c) that you and the Constitutional Court broke the constitution, you less constitutional court more. And since people make mistakes, the judges of the constitutional court can also violate the constitution as well as everyone else. And when this happens in a situation where we have a kind of state of emergency, and that the constitutional court does not react then tell counterpart Bacic that they have not justified their trust, that they have misused their trust and that we will no longer vote for them, is not a non-democratic pressure on the constitutional court but rather the most ethical, most transparent, most transparent exercise of public duty in accordance with the conscience and in accordance with what we think is right because if the constitution has given representatives the right to choose constitutional judges then they will do so in accordance with their own conscience, in accordance with what they think is best. And when they make this slip with two legs into the basic shell of the right to deserve a direct red card then that's it. Therefore, not because of the decision they made, but because of those they did not make, which is that they did not distinguish what was art. 16, which is an art. They earned a red card on the 17th, but they have time to fix it. So there aren't any nou hard feelings to say. And just to clarify some things, it didn't apply to these "from our quota" nets at all because I voted for all 13 constitutional judges in the assembly and you fellow Bačić and most of those who were in clubs that agreed on constitutional judges so that they were both "ours", so they got our trust to work in accordance with the constitution for eight years. Once they have received our trust, they no longer have any obligation to us, nor do they have any obligation to us. It is therefore legitimate to question good work and constitutional court. In addition, in this pandemic, the Constitutional Court played a fair, correct, politically correct, most transparently possible role of the upper house of HS or Parliament's upper house with a clear majority of the ruling majority, with a clearly formed opposition, with clearly formed views of the ruling majority, with clearly formed views of the opposition and beware now, with clearly formed and business remarks of the opposition when they spoke in one separate opinion about not working transparently enough, that there were no public meetings, etc., etc. So we don't need a copy of HS, so there are those of us who choose the people, and it would be good to remove that impression in further work. Now, of course, no one has been elected to some function forever, and maybe I won't be a representative then, maybe not you, maybe we'll all be here, but while we're here, the constitution gives us homework, and the citizens trust us to talk like we're talking, so that I'm not only retarded, I'm going to further support what I said at the session of the Constitution Committee, this gently, and my colleague Bencic is a little bit sharper, she's sharpened that story, but I don't mean anyone personally. So we condemn the phenomenon, and if we can save ourselves we will not be the problem, however, it is a clear message so there is no possibility of not setting the line between the Art. Article 16 17. The right to freedom of movement, the right to enjoy the ownership of the headquarters, were school examples when an article was to be applied. The 17th and then we would have been guilty or deserved, it was school, textbook. Some others, a question of doubt, therefore not every decision, because in the article. Article 16 17. is not an emphasis on the majority but on the rights, the smaller majority of the less restrictions on rights, the greater the majority of the restrictions on rights, and colleague Nadj has read what you cannot in any way limit. So when my colleague Bulj may have had a bit of a heated discussion in the beginning that you can't violate human rights without a two-thirds majority, you can't do it with a two-thirds. Human rights cannot... temporarily limit certain rights, and may not be limited at all. To conclude, the SDP club will vote in favour of a proposal for a committee on a legislative referendum, we will vote against the proposal of the Constitution Committee on a advisory referendum. If the Constitutional Court decides that referendums or one are in accordance with the constitution, then we will discuss how we will call on citizens to vote in the referendum when it is current. And here's to calm down some of Bačić's colleagues, this will not be a criterion for support, this referendum will not be a criterion for supporting constitutional judges, or as one statesman in the former state said, it is not our war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102085	Okay. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. The 238th Rules of Procedure demeaning other MPs. The fact that individual constitutional judges are proposed by individual political options in HS is not an extended hand and political option, but they have been elected 2/3 by the majority to guard the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and according to their belief, knowledge determines whether they have... in accordance with [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] with the Constitution or not. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102087	It was your replica, you get a warning. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102088	My colleague Bačić, you have confirmed to me everything I have said that after they have been elected, they have no obligation to those who voted for them, and those for whom we have all voted are our own, not just those who have proposed them. And I absolutely agree with you that they have an obligation in accordance with the conscience to make decisions, but they also have representatives of the obligation in accordance with the conscience afterwards to re-valorate their work and we will see in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102089	Okay, this is your second warning. Comrade Oreshkovic, please put on a mask because everyone else has a mask. HDZ representative club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to refer these two referendum issues to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's assessment. If he has time in these 10 minutes, my colleague Bauk will be happy to continue this debate about blackmailing the Constitutional Court if you don't judge how I think he should judge and if your decision doesn't match my political views, then you won't be there. It's a message from my colleague Bauk on the Constitutional Committee, but I'll talk about it a little later if I have more time. So, we are here today to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on articles if I am not wrong in 87 and paragraphs 1 to 3 and Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court as a body in the Republic of Croatia which sets out national referendums before the call if it is two that questions, that the question or questions that the citizens' initiatives have raised are sufficient numbers of votes to be asked by the Constitutional Court in the structure of the State Authority is responsible for assessing whether these issues are in accordance with the Constitution or not. It's not the first time. This is, this is the situation that's happened before, and there's nothing controversial about it. There's nothing controversial about it. And to respond to all those who, as one of the reasons for the repression of national decision-making in direct democracy in the referendum, claim that this government, this government decided most do not want a referendum one of the reasons is a high, large number of needs of 10% of the total voter list. I agree. It's a big deal. However, when it is said that in other democratic states, a smaller number of 5.3% is needed, then the same ones who say that in Croatia, a large number of voters do not tell the truth until the end, and that truth says that where there are small ones where a relatively small number of 10% voters are needed, there are constitutional brakes that can even be discussed in the referendum. Therefore, there is no need to ask the Constitutional Court, for it is written in the constitution, for example, in the German Constitution, which may be and cannot be the subject of a referendum. And failed to say another brake that might slow down or discourage them from going to that initiative is the quorum of decision-making, the quorum of decision-making. If the quorum of decision-making is, for example, to amend the constitution in the constitutional referendum is equivalent to 101 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which is the two-thirds majority so I assume that many initiatives would be discouraged immediately at the beginning if the quorum of decision-making i.e. to amend the constitution in the constitutional referendum should be 49% of the total number of voters, and then I would ask the question whether these are also the brakesters of the direct decision of the people in the constitutional, in the referendum. So when it comes to how the referendum is disabled in Croatia, it kills in the beginning because it takes 10%, then this second part of the truth that is not there at all, which is undeniable. So that's about access to a referendum in a country. And we have already said, on behalf of the club of representatives, that it is necessary in Croatia to approach the amendment of the referendum legislation in a way to prescribe the quorum of decision-making and to reduce the number, number of voters' signatures and to extend the time in which they can, can, can decide, and it is also a matter of consensus here in the Croatian Parliament whether or not the topics which cannot be subject to the referendum should be identified. One of the topics is in many democratic states is the formation of state government, the formation of state authorities. In this context and there are no colleagues of the Deputics, I remember what Mrs. Omjec said in the context of whether or not the Constitutional Court should be abolished and the powers of the Constitutional Court should instead be taken over by the Supreme Court. So it is not possible in democratic states to form a government's three-division government to question on, in democratic states in referendums. As far as the metrics are concerned, there are two questions. There's one thing that's been launched by the Civil Initiative is enough of the storkocracy for which not only we at the HDZ Representatives' Club, but almost everyone. I have not heard a single constitutional-legal expert, at least it has not been made public that the issue is in accordance with the Constitution and because the issue is practically in the hands of the authorities. What the Constitution stipulates is that in Croatia it is carrying out an execution, i.e. We cannot take over the role of executive authority here in Parliament, but we are prescribing a framework, and that framework is prescribed by the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and the Civil Protection System Act. And when we have prescribed what restrictions these are in the event of an epidemic, i.e. the pandemic activation of these measures is prescribed by the Government or the body we have decided here, which is the Civil Protection Staff with the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in this way, if it were to be accepted that the legislative authority took over the prerogative powers of the executive government, it would be a harsh violation of the constitutional principle of the government's trinity and we would hear about what the Constitutional Court said. We think it's a question against constitutionality. As far as the second question is concerned, which is a constitutional referendum, which she has conducted in the collection of the signatures of the Citizens' Initiative "Let's decide together" we are talking about this Parliament in two years and a month how long it lasts, month and 37 days how long the epidemic in Croatia, i.e. the month, 2 years and 2 months how long the epidemic in Croatia lasts at least 50 times. And I'll do it again. First of all, it has already been questioned in the Constitutional Court whether such a process, which Croatia is fighting against the epidemic in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the legislator of the Croatian Assembly is the representative body of the Croatian Parliament, which, among other things, brought the Constitution and prescribed the possibility and restrictions of certain human rights in the event of public health in Croatia, that it can adopt its measures by laws restricting human rights and freedoms, which are limits that we bring to a qualified majority of 76 hands and we could and that is what the Constitutional Court said to this Parliament, this Croatian Parliament could have wanted to go in such a way that it benefits the foundations of Article 17. The Constitution. Both would be in accordance with the Constitution, and we have decided on Article 16 because of the efficiency in the fight against the pandemic. That no democratic state in Europe has fought an epidemic in the world led to parliamentary decision-making with a two-thirds majority. So I guess a democratic state in Europe, in the world, would use the possibility of its parliament fighting an epidemic by a two-thirds majority. It's not one, and the opposition asks us to do it to Croatia. The second question is, and what if the two-thirds majority does not establish what will not be a measure? Then we will let the outbreak of hara all over Croatia, and having experience earlier and mine as representatives in which the two-thirds majority of Croatia are difficult to achieve in the Croatian Assembly and that we have often been valued in the two-thirds majority with small concessions and can do so later in an individual debate in order to achieve it, I do not see that Croatia can effectively fight the two-thirds majority of the epidemic, or pandemic in Croatia. So I'll continue to discuss this later in an individual debate. We clearly support this. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102091	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102092	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament article 238nd colleague Bačić deceives the public. So it was never about the second question that the authorities, i.e. the executive authorities, were taken away, so things were out of hand, so the health minister made decisions on the matter of deratization, floods, etc. And all other things concerning fundamental human freedoms and the right to decide on a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. So the Minister of Health is part of the executive government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102093	Okay, this was your replica, an explanation. You're getting a warning. Next comes the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, Honored Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102094	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You today would probably not have discussed this if we hadn't had more than four hundred civil protection officers' decisions in the last two years and two months that were often made in accordance with the political situation that corresponded to the ruling majority. Civil Protection headquarters is one political body, and it's clear to all of us, that we have people in this Staff who belong largely to one political option. We have lawyers among them, we have economists, we have traffic engineers, we have even two doctors of medicine, among them an epidemiologist. We later have two associated members, which is Minister of Health and counterpart Markotic, who were not at the start of members of the Staff. In all these decisions when he made them, he often agreed between two and three persons, and that is also a fact. About how legitimate it is. We have made a proposal here in the Croatian Parliament that the relative majority confirm the decisions of the Staff that they get their legitimacy and they have ruled out it. And that is why we are discussing here today, because the epidemic has often been brought in accordance with the needs, or measures the needs of the ruling majority. Just remember the first restrictive measures. It has been more than 30 days since the first covida-19 case that appeared in the Republic of Croatia until the first measures were adopted. Why? In the meantime, you had to go through internal elections in HDZ where people were printed in party rooms, stood one behind the other 20 cm away, when it passed after that you brought the first measures and then the health of the nation became important, that famous sentence. Today we are discussing who the government belongs to in this country. In the article of our first constitution, which may be the most important clear and loudly stood power comes from the people and belongs to the people, and so should it be in all democratic states, but in Croatia the people can only be expressed through the elections and show their opinion. It's 30 years old. We had only 3 referendums, 2 which launched the current power, it was the first referendum on independence, then we had a referendum on EU accession, we only had one referendum that was recognised by citizens' initiatives, which is a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage. All other referendum initiatives were rejected for this or that reason or rejected by the Constitutional Court because they were not in accordance with the constitution or were not recognised by numerous signatures or did not collect sufficient number of voters' signatures, and then we return to that referendum law itself, which is only realistically looking at the dead letter on paper. Croatia may also have the most rigorous measures regarding the calling of a referendum because on the one hand we have a very high threshold of 10% of the required electoral body that we must collect, and we all know that this, even that figure, does not correspond to the truth. So when this referendum was launched or when there was a referendum "Protect Croatian Kuna" it was necessary to collect 368 thousand signatures, which means that there are 3 million 680 thousand voters in Croatia, and the census says that there are 3.88 which means where are our minors, relatively looking at the adult voters in the Republic of Croatia is about 320 to 330, 3.3 million, meaning we need 330 thousand of the maximum necessary signatures in order for a referendum to be called. And despite these rigorous conditions, despite the fact that you have every place, literally every place you have to report to the competent police administrations, despite being obliged to pay for the use of the public surfaces, despite having to have the exact list of people who are participating in the referendum initiatives that will be there both in the sun and in the rain and in the day and in the dark and in the snow, despite all of this and when you collect as you now have enough signatures, then you are still waiting a few months for this topic to be pasted, but this topic can again be current unfortunately in the autumn, God forbid we all get rid of these crowns, but it can be quite current. And now that you've collected enough signatures from one side that you're admitting that there are about 400 thousand now is not enough either, let's get a little bit more bitter, let's get these Croatian citizens down a little bit, let's give each one more rain, so send it all to the constitutional court, and wait for a month two for the constitutional court to decide whether the issues are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Why, why are you afraid of the Croatian people? You have no need, you received 640-650 thousand in the election a year and a half ago and you rule Croatia, here 400 and a few thousand people signed and not enough to call a referendum. You have nothing to fear, let the people decide. If you consider your headquarters to have taken measures according to the law, if your headquarters brought, excuse me, he has passed according to the law rather than passed epidemiologically justified measures every time, then we are convinced. Everyone should be convinced that in this referendum, the vast majority of Croatian citizens will support the work of your headquarters and reject this civic initiative, or these two citizens' initiatives, but you are obviously afraid. Why are you afraid of it, you must say to the Croatian public, but I do not think it is in the spirit of democracy that you do not allow after two weeks of hard work and so many signatures in poor weather conditions not to allow Croatian citizens to decide on it in a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102095	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club of Representatives, Dalija Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102096	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. The debate on whether these issues should be referred to the constitutional court to determine whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the constitution, and ultimately, the referendum issues themselves resemble that debate on Schreedinger's cat and box, at the same time alive and not alive, exists and does not exist. The answers we will receive in this debate and from the Constitutional Court itself will look about that way. These answers and arguments to be presented by the Constitutional Court will be of interest perhaps to constitutional legal theorists. I hope that they will get answers to those questions that they have also raised in the debate on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. But these issues and these discussions are of a more theoretical philosophical nature, they will serve for some political and scientific purposes for the issues that will arise for us in the future, but we will not solve those problems that have brought and caused the collection of signatures to call this referendum. The whole problem started when we were a member. 17. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia interpreted and applied in the wrong way, not us, not all of us, but the HDZ parliamentary majority, and as long as we have one political heirloom, I may be the legacy of a former system by which one party acts as if the entire state is their private property. In which the Constitution interprets, implements, interprets, stretches as chewer as it pleases them only because it can, just because it says we have 76 hands and for nothing else does not care, we will have a state that is not full and functional democracy. We will have a state in which the letter of the Constitution, especially where it protects the Constitution guaranteeing constitutional human rights, is worth no less, no less. How will the Constitutional Court decide? They'll decide how HDZ fits. It's going to be a wildcard call again, in this case, just call for a little time, because in the meantime, the essence will be resolved by the very state of Covid pandemic that's on its way down. In the meantime, we have abolished Covdi's confirmation, and the whole of Europe is heading towards the end of the masks. What should be decided on at a democracy festival, as I have already said, will solve time. However, we will be left with the basic questions. The first of them is good, which is a problem with the Croatian State that in 30 years we have not been able to bring in one excessive, well-assembled, logical law on a referendum which, among other things, is prescribed and some appropriate majority of the turnout that can legitimately decide on a question in the referendum. Why have we not otherwise prescribed a way to sign or collect signatures, why it cannot be an electronic signature and a relief of those who are standing in the rain. 10,000 signatures for the presidential election weren't easy to collect, and I can imagine what you've been through and that's what needs to be respected in itself. But this does not mean that for every question a referendum must be called, it does not mean that a referendum should be called where the Constitution itself is already telling us what it is and that it does not mean that any, any parliamentary majority of whom is allowed to abuse the letter of the Constitution simply because it is afraid to apply it in any particular case. So, we can't have a situation when the squishy calls the Constitutional Court, but we can't even have the constitutional court's composition as it is today. The whole of my debate in a way was a completely different track of originally planned directed debate by Arsen Bauk when he said that whatever we thought this Constitutional Court assembly was better than any previous one that we had ever had. In fact, among the existing constitutional judges are three judges who at the time of the election were parliamentary representatives and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and were therefore in a double-privileged situation to take advantage of a public duty in order to push themselves into the Constitutional Court. And I agree with that theory that the constitutional judges chosen by 2/3 were therefore the product of some political agreement once they were chosen, they no longer seem to be related to those who chose them. In other words, they are free to decide as they should and should, on the basis of the very letter of the Constitution, and then it is not the very essence of the problem that some constitutional judges have been lobbying on the right, but for some constitutional judges on the left, but the problem is that the specific persons who have chosen in this way, not all of them, I will select 3 of them as hatched party personnel. Not as top legal or constitutional experts, I don't know if you understand what I'm referring to. Therefore, the quality of those who decide on something past legal qualifications should take precedence over what one person has done in his political career through several consecutive mandates of a parliamentary representative. This has an important impact on the legal and constitutional reasoning mechanism, and we see the consequences now. And in any case, there should be no one among the constitutional judges who is known for being falsely identified in some sort of meetings when corruption affairs are being debated. As President of the Constitutional Court, there can be no person who enjoys, private socializes, and dinners a fish. These are the things that lead to the fact that the public has no confidence in the decisions made by the Constitutional Court. And this then causes a referendum to be called in on those issues for which perhaps the referendum should not have been called. And that's what the problem is. And as long as you colleagues of HDZ who hope in the next meeting of the Croatian Assembly will no longer have a majority, but I hope that those who will hold the majority at that time will still be, let's say more enlightened, more focused on really making this home a space for dialogue debate in which the other party is heard, in which the other side is properly respected and respected. I hope that you too will then advocate some different criteria, those that serve the interests of the entire Croatian people. And then we can discuss how we're going to settle the matter of the referendum, so we won't talk all the time and we don't have any answers, we don't even know who's checking the collected signatures. It's a fundamental question. Then we can also talk about what our criteria will be for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. Then we will also talk about that when we establish a Constitutional Court that will have professional, professional trust and integrity that does not result from previous political and party action, then we will speak differently and criticise, comment and respect the decisions made by such a Constitutional Court. However, it is unfortunate that we and these questions are answered when most Croatian citizens are no longer as relevant as they were half a year ago, which means that political and political interests are put before the interests of most Croatian citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102097	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Oreshković injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is unacceptable for me that my colleague Oreskovic here at the Croatian Parliament's pay phone in this way is problematicd by the professional careers of constitutional judges selected by the Croatian Parliament at the Constitutional Court. She can talk about it and therefore violate the Rules of Procedure and the one who became president of a state body as a relative unknown and wider and professional public, lawyer in Croatia. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102099	You're getting a warning. Here's my colleague Bencic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102100	Article 238 Mr. Bačić again insults and colleague Oreshković, but also us other opposition MPs, taking away our opportunity to question the way and work of the Constitutional Court. I will repeat the constitutional judges and the Constitutional Court are not part of a regular judiciary or part of a regular judicial authority but are guardians of the constitution elected directly in Parliament in agreement between the majority and the minority And as such, of course they are. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] in that majority and minority responsible and may be questioned. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102101	You have a warning, too. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is Honored Representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102102	Thank you, dear Vice President. A colleague of Bencic injured Article 238 several paragraphs of that article. So, it's an incredible ease that my colleague Bencic, in general, allows himself in fact to present certain facts here in public space for certain people, in this case constitutional judges who are unverified, who have read somewhere, and that suits them. However, when they are answered, it is a violation of their rights and then they feel threatened. So, I think that we live in a democratic society and it would be good for the elementals to take you up as a parliamentary representative and parliamentary representatives finally to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102103	Time. Good warning to you, too. Dalia Oreshkovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102104	Article 238, I was personally called and offended, and in doing so, my colleague, you present complete untrueness. What I have said about the judges of the Constitutional Court is also part of the official guidance addressed by an institution that has said by people who have party cards and several mandates serve as party people cannot from that position as parliamentary representatives, as members of the parent committee lobby and choose themselves in the Constitutional Court. And I forgot to mention Jasnica Omejec as the President of the Constitutional Court who, after 16 years of presidencies, is herself ensure the receipt of fees that do not belong to it after the term of office [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So much for the quality of constitutional judges. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] who decide the fates of all of us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102105	You have a warning. And why are you doing this? At least you represent the law and respect the law. You get a warning. Next is the debate, and Josip Boris has injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102106	Thank you very much. A colleague of Oreskovic hurt Article 238, and insulted us all here, threatening us from this pay phone here and we see constitutional judges, not enough quality, not as good as she is and constantly threatening to move us or that we will disappear from the political scene. I'll just tell her, I'm already here in the Croatian Parliament. Everyone sitting up there in that row last and threatening us, they were never in the next session again. So think carefully about what you say and do not give yourself any authority you do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102107	Representative Boric can also warn you because this was your replica, you get a warning. Please! Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Raukar-Gamulin and Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102108	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, this epidemic has not ended, it has only weakened, and a terrible war in Ukraine has taken over the entire media area. But the virus is still there, and there is the possibility of mutating again, strengthening, and causing the sixth wave of epidemics when we may need reinforced epidemiological measures again. For two months after the start of the Civil Protection Command epidemic, which had taken epidemiological action, and at first was both appreciated and heard and respected, at that time with its politically colored decisions, by prescribing exceptions to its own prescribed measures that were simply such an advocacy to voters and their own violations of the measures they had taken, he lost the citizens' trust and it was irrevocably and that is the fact and so it is going on to this day. Several times in this House, we called on the Staff to resign primarily from the need to fight the epidemic to take on new experts who were unburdened by affairs, exceptions, personal violations of measures, unmeasured and uncontrollable statements, late measures that cost us an unnecessarily large number of deaths. We believe that this would really be a real and necessary step in fighting a virus that has taken nearly 16,000 lives to date more than in the entire Homeland War. We believe that leadership is needed in the fight against this epidemic, such a monster cannot be left to the individual's personal decisions. We need solidarity between citizens and awareness that only by common forces can we reduce mortality, reduce viral circulation and ultimately win the virus. We have made it very clear that Article 17. The Constitution of the Croatian Republic and that those measures restricting human rights and freedoms are made by a two-thirds majority in this House, and thus we would also get greater legitimacy of decisions and greater assurance that is necessary. By 2020, my whole life when I was sick, I went to doctors, and I was treated according to their recommendations. Both me and everyone I know have done it and done it. And then there was an epidemic of the coronary virus and then, after a while, it started with all the possible doubts about the recommendations of those people that we used to have before that epidemic that we believed. Doctors have suddenly become some people who are part of the world's conspiracies, who actually want to hurt us, who inject us with chips, which put us at greater risk than the coronary virus itself. At the same time, these same people were on the front line of the defense against the virus, fighting for each patient, having to watch many unnecessary deaths, being exhausted, praying and godmothering citizens and citizens to be vaccinated and thereby protecting themselves from severe illnesses and death. They also begged and begged us today to stick to epidemiological measures. And I have to admit that I can neither understand nor accept that the appeal of a doctor or a doctor is not being listened. How come we listen to them when it comes to other diseases, and in this situation we doubt and do not listen? We still haven't reached a cleavage that would significantly reduce the circulation of the virus and thus weaken the epidemic. It is often seen in countries where measures are given down, but it accidentally or intentionally neglects their high cleavage. Therefore, change in the headquarters is needed, new experts who can regain the lost trust of citizens and citizens. It is also necessary that decisions that significantly restrict human rights and freedoms be made in the Assembly by two-thirds of the majority and need to be vaccinated and adhere to the current measures that have been imposed epidemiologically and with the most important aim of stopping dying. Let us not forget that we should not have come to a terrible number of 16 thousand dead. Many of our fellow citizens, fellow citizens, could still be alive today, and that is why we have responsibility both as Parliamentarians and as humans. Politics and political bickering won't stop death.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102109	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the foundation of every government is trust. In order for intervening democracy to function as a concept, it is necessary to build trust continuously with those who chose you. When that trust does not have every decision of the elected authority either legislative, judicial, or executive, it is questioned or not believed. Distrust in one branch of government is very easy to pour into the other and into the third and that's the situation we have today. And when that trust is not in the decisions that the bodies elected in the elections then, of course, the possibility remains to be made in a referendum. I'm not going to talk about a completely bad referendum today. We'll talk about it when we change that law. However, I would like to stress that in this situation that we are even discussing the referendum today, we have been brought by the parliamentary majority and the HDZ executive power. First because she lost the citizens' basic trust in making decisions in managing the covid crisis. This confidence was lost at the moment when the exceptions began, when parameters about epidemiological measures were not introduced, when completely wrongly communicated about the fiasco vaccination in Croatia and when it was seen that not all of them were equal in the pandemic. At that moment, this trust could still be restored using executive institutions, both legislative and judicial authorities to apply those mechanisms that the constitutional creator had provided for extraordinary situations, because in constitutional democracies precisely in times of crisis and these public health crises as we had certain fundamental values of rule of law must be the key content of parliamentary debates, parliamentary oversight and parliamentary decisions and that is what we didn't have. Therefore, the key requirement of the rule of law and the key requirement of our founder was that just in times of crisis, it must be impossible for most ordinary and qualified majority of those who also make and executive authority itself to make decisions on restrictions on human rights. Why did the constitutionman predict that? Because in constitutional parliamentary democracies, liberal democracies of human rights restrictions are only possible in exceptional times and only when there is a broader political and social consensus on this and it is not a joke. This is so to prevent liberal democracies from going into authoritative regimes, and it is indeed our constitutionalist who wrote it in the Constitution, and he said at regular times those human rights that are relative and that is the majority, most human beings are relative, most of them can be limited by Article 16 that you have the right to freedom of movement but that doesn't mean that you can cross wherever you want, etc., that you have the right to freedom of expression but that doesn't mean you can use hate speech. These are some restrictions on human rights that go according to Article 16. But he asked that in a state of emergency with greater restrictions on human rights those who would never work without a state of emergency, and they would never prohibit people from going from one municipality or from one county to another, I hope. I hope we would never ban people from seeing more than 10 people at home because we don't care how many people come to them, I hope they don't. We only do that in extraordinary conditions. And then the founder said about such a state of emergency, but then you don't have to have proportionality, you have to have measures that are relatively in line with what you want to achieve, but you have to bring 2/3 to most because it will make it impossible for restrictions on human rights to work for the sake of the will and arbitration of most people, therefore those who make up executive power. And that's what you missed and that's what's going to stay for history because you and the Constitutional Court have mocked the purpose and purpose Article 17 of the Constitution... [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102110	Following individual debates, the first respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102111	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have already said that I have personally stepped on the referendums, the referendums, on the referendum initiatives, and I will say that every referendum initiative is legitimate to whoever is initiating it. And in principle, I am always in favour of freedom or direct decision of the people in the referendum because I think it is the best democracy. But let's not lie. This referendum was not launched in order to change the Constitution and abolish some kind of headquarters, nor to make a decision of 2/3 of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, but was launched solely because a political option would achieve political benefits. Which is also legitimate, it's also legitimate. And I will say that my former party, when it launched a referendum on the protection of the Kuna, also wanted to achieve a political benefit in the referendum. However, there is one small difference, and the difference is that I still think and I have arguments that the euro will be taken away from the Croatian people, that we will live poorer, and here in fact this referendum was people who did not explain it only in ways that they were not allowed to read, and that is not to be vaccinated, do not vaccinate, do not vaccinate. And that's the only message they read out of this. And when you came to the stand any message this was against vaccination, against masks, against. If you as a colleague had just said here Bencic clearly that for vaccination or colleagues from HDZ or colleagues from the SDP, MOSTs of mine said ever people must be vaccinated because that's good, then the story would have a meaning, then I would have taken off your hat and told you guys you were cool. But you didn't because you were going to grab the pool of Ivan Pernar, Mislav Kolakusic, Vilibor Sinčić and take those votes, but you won't get them you'll have a fiasco. Those are their voices. On the other hand, it is very important that the Croatian public knows when we voted to give power to the headquarters only Ivan Pernar was against it. We unanimously adopted that decision, only Ivan Pernar voted against, was only one vote against. One vote against was and it's very important. And now we're discussing some kind of 2/3 vote, but I remember, and you remember those controls when we were coming to Zagreb and we were thinking in fear of what it would be like for all of you MOST's people to be in a lot of trouble and everybody wanted the vaccine. Zagreb was empty, Croatia was empty, control wants to be Mad Max on the streets, wife quickly buys toilet paper, buys cans. Is it easy to talk to you today after two years of being so cool we're against credentials, we're two-thirds of the decision, so my people have an alternative to that in the end. The government of the Republic of Croatia received a mandate from the people so the government could make those decisions, but according to the law there is a headquarters, the headquarters is the council we all here gave him unanimously, is not unanimous with one vote against the possibility of doing what they are doing. And I'm gonna do it again from a little while ago for the record. All those who favour the referendum are not in favour of the referendum because you and your comrades from MOST were offered to help with the referendum and to protect the Croatian Kuna, we will no longer vote there in the nepisics, there are more votes in the inoculation we go there, and you have done everything that this referendum fails because you are not in favour of referendums like here, and you have destroyed the referendum on Istanbul when you put in the same term the referendum “People decide” for which you have no idea what it was today. And if the referendum on Istanbul had happened by chance, the Croatian political scene would not have looked like this. Or maybe you actually did a good job when I think about it. Maybe you actually did well. So let's not be wrong and let's not be Pinocchio.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102112	We have several replicas, but before that, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Bellimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102113	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, Zekanovic deceives the public, MOST never voted in favour of surrendering power to the headquarters, we voted abstentionally. And about the people who had also been vaccinated, and there must have been one 30 to 40% who signed for the referendum, they welcomed Mr Zekanovic, so they sent a greeting and said they noticed that Mr Zekanovic's departure around the HDZ was on the move because Europarliamentary elections as a true sovereign were approaching the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102114	Time. ... You're getting a warning. [[You don't understand.]] And the replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102115	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic, so here I heard from my colleague, Grumoja, who had raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to give you room to talk to him as well. But apparently he persuaded his colleague Troscott to say what to say. I wanted to ask you since you're talking about Pinocchio... According to our HDZ Matko, the man who says let's bet on the media and when you scientifically prove to him that he lied he says it's not worth it, let's start over. [[You don't understand.]] Now we're going to ask you 100 questions and he's re-attacking everyone falsely. And now he's unconditionally asking us to believe everything they say, everything and they don't trust themselves if you've noticed they don't believe and of course they're bringing in confusion and our citizens and all of us here are trying to blacken out or defam us for the very reason that they themselves know they've done so many bad things, and that's cheating and fellow Petrov with that famous confirmation, and fellow Bulj with the famous oath so they won't respect the law and now they're fellow Bolmoja. A cat with a bet that's no longer worth it to him now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102116	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102117	Dear colleague Boric, here's a thank you for your replica. The fact that some don't tell the truth and fellow Troscott didn't tell the truth now, because I made it clear there was one vote against. Only Pernar was against it. I didn't cheat because I told the truth. It's just Ivan Pernar who was in the Caribbean today against that law. The bridgers weren't against it, and that's the truth, and that's the truth, I'm not cheating. They didn't mind. I told the truth. A colleague chooses an Italian version or a Russian version of a colleague Troscott. And on the other hand, I'd still remember something. How at that time you were so naively used by a lady, a doctor and as an old rag thrown into the trash later, and you don't actually know that you had one mission to destroy the Istanbul Convention around which your Bridgers never said a word because it's a matter of the worldview. Shh, shh.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102118	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102119	Dear colleague Zekanovic, you love someone more, someone less, someone you don't love, especially some political options, but I'm not getting into it right now. But you yourself said that in principle you support the people's decision in a referendum on some important issues. Do you think it is fair that these questions go to the Constitutional Court's decision if, and you yourself have participated in the referendum initiative "Let's protect the Croatian Kuna" and you know how difficult it is to collect a sufficient number of signatures, if 400 thousand signatures have been collected in such weather conditions, why should further request the opinion of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102120	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102121	Well, I'd have an attitude here if this first question hadn't been sent to the Constitutional Court. I think that's it, here's where there might have been a little mistake, but that's not a colleague of Pavlik's, that's not the point. The point is, he's hiding behind everything, and the point is, thanks to this referendum, and thanks to the guys who didn't tell this place, the people you're vaccinated are getting hurt. Someone trusted them. Someone also believes a fellow bushie here, someone trusts Troscott, and they never said what they said, they didn't say what they were supposed to say. Okay. Excuse me. Lapsus. Never because it's more important for my colleague Troscott to get what vote at least thanks to your actions someone got hurt. Very Christian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102122	The next replica is the last respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102123	Thank you. Dear fellow Zekanovic, after your call for vaccination, the interest in vaccination has fallen sharply. So that's what we could see when you did it since you've been doing it over and over again people have been vaccinated less. And here you may realize that we were aware of how little people actually trust politicians and we wanted people to decide for themselves whether to vaccinate or not. No one is going to vaccinate Mr. Zekanovic because you or I are going to invite him to the vaccination, but people are going to make an informed decision because it's overwhelming. It's their health. They'll be informed. So he's going to drag what he's doing and make that decision. Don't force people into anything. And this wasn't a referendum on vaccination, because this referendum was signed by those who were vaccinated and those who weren't vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102124	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102125	My dear colleague Grumoja, Pope Carlo, whoever did this is a good job and your nose is still growing because you've told one lie again. You've told one lie again and in vain every worship and all that you do if you work against your conscience, and you know very well no matter what your nose grows in another five inches that I'm telling the truth and that you should be vaccinated. And if you were the guy and the Christian you call for if you were, then you'd slap your hand on this table from this phone booth because you're always yelling with intonation, you know, Mr. Plenkovic. With that intonation, you had to invite people to vaccination, but you're not because you're a coward, because you're Buratino, Tolstoy's version of Pinocchio, the eastern version.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102126	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102127	Thank you, dear Vice President. I don't want to talk about Ponikoi, I don't want to talk about Buratine. I would actually like to start by saying that I am quite disappointed with this during the debate, or I am disappointed with the way colleagues from Mosta are experiencing actually democracy and experience the right to critical and different thinking. Yeah? So what you're saying in your opinion is that these questions are in accordance with the Constitution if we have a different opinion from one of us, but that's not good, that's not right. My colleague Rasdic said it was an object, that it would cost us. If these are the democratic notions of the principles that you represent, if it's a projection of what you'd be doing not to give God power, then he's adamant to all of us. Is what you showed today more about dictatorship than any democratic procedure. You have also tried to present the proposal of the Committee, which, as president of the Committee, presented this additional step, which was that it could have been the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system or that it would go to question the constitutionality or consensus of these issues with the Constitution or to call a referendum. Therefore, a decision has been taken by the majority of votes to go before the Constitutional Court and to ask whether these questions from these two referendum initiatives are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm sorry that you showed here that again and further those who signed these initiatives want to play out, and that's what you've been doing since the beginning. Let's remember a day, two before you finished collecting your signatures you said someone would steal you, that they'd play you, and then you kept those signatures for a month and a half, no one knew where they were. You counted them. Yeah? If we can ask what you did with those signatures, but we won't. The government has determined that a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, that the same are credible, and now we're going to the final stage we're going to go to the Constitutional Court. I am sorry that there is no colleague Oreshkovic here who on behalf of the Club said that the Constitutional Court is making the wrong decisions. I'm sorry that she's taking it back now to put herself on some pedestal and actually condemn the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that she's considered to be the relevant factor that she can speak in this way. I don't know if anyone here in the replica mentioned it comes from a person who made a number of decisions when she was president of the Committee, falling like a map tower, and today we're still looking at the consequences of her bad decisions. As far as the questions are concerned, as far as the first question is concerned, my opinion is and it is my right to say that it is not in accordance with the Constitution as much as the colleagues in the Bridge may not like it. There is already something about it, or much he said about it on behalf of the Club. So, the Constitutional Court made it clear in two points and 26 and 28 of its September 2020 solution that the Croatian Parliament is solely competent to decide what it will apply to be Article 16, whether it will be Article 17. What would happen if your initiative were adopted theoretically? So they would add two words of pandemic and epidemic. The activation of this article according to the current constitution, i.e. according to the current nomotechnical arrangement, is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Who declares the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia based on positive regulations? Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we would be in a position for the government as an executive body to activate an article that is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. So, there's been a violation and violation of the government's three-way principle. That's one of the reasons why this particular question of yours relating to the amendment of the Constitution is unconstitutional. As far as the second question is concerned, this has already been a lot of words, so the way we acted and acted in the situation in which the Croatian Parliament, the two-thirds parliament, decided to lead security measures. In which way, especially at the time of the 2nd and 3rd waves, when we had a truly large number of people infected in hospitals, the burden of the hospital system, and when different measures were to be taken on a daily basis depending on local situations, so it was not the same situation in all parts of Croatia in which we would achieve 2/3 here in a few hours when we were to react? Therefore, in addition to all that has already been said why we believe that this second issue is also against the constitution, the reasons for what the President of the Club said and we believe that this decision should be supported, or a proposal for decisions adopted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102128	Replica is a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102129	You're tired, Mr. Vice President. You're a lawyer and you're a man who speaks discreetly unlike some others who come for that pay phone so they don't even know what the agenda is. Here, I'm not a lawyer, as I understand it, no one is questioning the civil initiatives that have collected the signature, and there's a lot of credentials, and let's not decide together. So they weren't stolen as it was announced through the media long before, but they collected the necessary number of signatures. And now, here I am not a lawyer my question is to you, what will change if these two questions go to the assessment of constitutionality? Can we actually refer to a referendum of questions that can ultimately be counter-constitutional, so that people will vote for something that is anti-constitutional? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102130	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102131	Thank you, dear colleague. That is why, because we are on the Committee, as well as part of the MPs and representatives of this House, that is, this House has doubts about constitutionality and the first and second referendum issues, we have decided therefore on this step to go before the Constitutional Court just to avoid this doubt that you have now mentioned here. And I repeat and well that you asked, so no one brings a number at all. Therefore, the Government has established that the number and credibility of both the signatures and the other initiatives is therefore some 372 and 370 thousand on this other initiative, so that it is sufficient and that no one is questioning it, but it is that we have decided on this step, or if, of course, the Croatian Parliament decides that these issues are both referred to the Constitutional Court to determine and resolve this dilemma who is ultimately right. Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102132	Hrvoje Zekanovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102133	My dear colleague here I agree with your thesis most of the time, but here I have to actually take advantage of this little opportunity to replicate a colleague who has recently honored me that like you are now this HDZ something of this. So, my father founded HDZ, the HDZ that your member Miro Bulj was, for example, I left that ruling coalition and today I am not part of the ruling majority, but if I had to choose between the Bridge which is a personification of all good in politics and such a credible one that Bene Plenkovic drove out of the coalition, we would still be with him in the coalition if he hadn't driven them and HDZ, so he would have chosen HDZ one thousand times before, or he had that number that's said countless times but an option that can only be destroyed, he can't build, which is not credible, which is hypocritical and who exclusively wants this place and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102134	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102135	We wouldn't have made you a bunny, so you can just pick HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102136	Thank you very much. So I can say that you've made a good choice, and as far as the Bridge is concerned, it's saying enough that they've twice played and what they've signed with the public notary and confirmed, now the bet, the oath, it's actually talking enough about the Most, and it's saying enough about everything they've said in this whole campaign when they've been collecting signatures and what statements they've been going through in the media space and what they've actually caused, so from the division in society to that it's actually because of these statements and the divisions that have caused the falling interest in vaccination and you're part of the great responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102137	Marian Pavlikek's next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102138	Dear counterpart Habian, here I was never a member of HDZ and I will never be a member of HDZ, and born in Croatia really and born in Croatia Croat is that, but I respect all the political options regardless of the left or right and their way of action and thank God and we can't all think the same, so we fought back in the '90s to get democracy. The worst thing is if we all start thinking the same thing because we all have to think the same thing. But to get back on the subject. Here is a colleague, Habib, who said that they had assessed that questions should be sent to the assessment of constitutionality, which is, of course, a legitimate right, but here you as a parliamentary representative, as a member of the board, do you think that in this form the current legal system, or the Institute of the Referendum in Croatia, is a dead letter on paper and whether it really should be changed, but not as in this first reading it was just let's say make-up rather than truly change that people can decide at the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102139	Thank you. I'm glad you've changed this rhetoric, you've actually corrected what you said here on behalf of the club. As for the bill that was in the first reading, I think it's good and it's not makeup definitely, and it remains the question he mentioned on behalf of the club and colleagues Bačić, which is the question of quorum, so a decision that will solve a lot. Therefore, all the legal solutions that were in the first reading, which are related to the amendment of the referendum, I think are good and the question arises why are many who now respect this, and were in the opportunity, so also other governments, why have not raised the issue of regulation, so the referendum process? HDZ has decided as well in many things that it is now doing step forward to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102140	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102141	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with you in your determination that you are disappointed during this debate and myself personally, especially in the part where the constitutional court and constitutional judges are being discussed. I believe that the rhetoric of opposition individuals today on constitutional judges is not a rhetoric that should be in this assembly, and such rhetoric primarily contributes to nothing. We here as agents should guard all institutions in society. Such rhetoric, I consider it actually by pressuring politicians and I don't think it's good. Also, our opposition colleagues told the DORH that the DORH is holding a hand with HDZ until the moment of the arrest of Minister Horvat, then they changed the record so today they insinuate that they know in advance what the Constitutional Court will decide on the constitutionality of these issues which is certainly not good. I think in one case or another, it's actually working.../The speaker has been disabled....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102142	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. You've detected it well, so it's not just in case we're talking about constitutional court, we've had such rhetoric according to the DORH, so you've pointed out, so for some time we've heard that the DORH is under the influence, if I'm not mistaken that such a label was put on HDZ, but after something that happened then it wasn't, then we're the ones who are attacking and destroying the independence and independence of the DORH. This only shows in fact that double standards and that their rhetoric agrees depending on how an individual case is actually developed in the timeline. Therefore, only a show of hypocrisy and I say and repeat double criteria and double standards, and ultimately, it is certain that this kind of conduct in public space, especially when it comes from parliamentary deputies and MPs, can be seen as a kind of pressure on institutions that should therefore be independent and independent, and that is exactly the opposition, part of the opposition that is making a great deal of pressure on these institutions, and even in this home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102143	The next replica, about the apology, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102144	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, my colleague didn't tell the truth. Namely, the opposition does not put pressure on constitutional judges with its rhetoric. So it's not the opposition that today when you ask the citizens no one has confidence in the state institutions, it's the ones who are acting in power. Why citizens don't trust the judiciary, why citizens don't trust the large part or the assembly, why citizens don't trust the government, the only thing the institute still believes in is the HV. They bear this responsibility by ruling, not opposition, and we have the right to ask ourselves to the constitutional court because unfortunately there has always been a doll at the end of the ruling no matter whether left or right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102145	Time. You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102146	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. My colleague insulted my colleague. She made her point. But we also have to keep in mind all of us who are engaged in public calls to take care of what we're saying, and for a given thought, it can't be raised here in violation of the Rules of Procedure. That will actually be decided by those who have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102147	Okay, you're the one who got involved in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. But the insults here are a lot everywhere. If we were to make warnings, I don't know who would stay here in the assembly. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Habib, on the one hand, we have respect for the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, respect for the legal order, respect for procedures, respect for transparency, respect for this and the will of the people. And on the other hand, we have what fellow Zekanovic said well, master of deception, giant heavy words, lies and insults, but liputance of achievement. On the one hand, we have those who cannot accept the reality in which they live, and the reality is that the people see, that the people know. The people see who protects jobs, who raises wages, who raises pensions, who raises gross social product, who cares about the safety of citizens and simply one cheap manipulation that has been revealed today, and thus only one representative who is here shows how much they really care about the referendum itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102149	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102150	Thank you. Yes, a few times a syntagm of the people's will or the will of the people came through here. And the people's will was in the elections recently that showed exactly the majority that exists today. As far as this initiative is concerned, what was actually a real desire and a real goal? So everything around here looks like it's in some way, in every way possible revenge to HDZ because they signed twice that they wouldn't come with us, and yet they cheated on their voters, they went with us. Then when they realized what they were like and when the secretary prepared the papers, they were thrown out of that government at the back door. Therefore, this seems to be their kind of struggle against whatever the HDZ does for a reason obviously because they are frustrated that they have ended twice, and surely the third time will not have that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102151	Josip Boric replica next.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102152	Thank you very much. My fellow Habian, you have spoken well of this whole process that has been going on for several months and we have indeed been under certain pressure, especially Mr. Matko of our time, who has always accused us and has not yet begun a referendum that we will steal the referendum. So then when they collected the signatures, it gathered here. The government said it had gathered enough. And then we listened to what they were doing all that time, so that we would steal them, so they kept it, so they saw what the number was like, so they saw how much it was numbered, so how much eventually it was added up, and it was fascinated again by Mr. Mother of our age who was saying that he had the most modern machines that would count it a little bit, except he didn't say that they came from America, that he would count that there wouldn't be any invalids. So accurate that when they put their witnesses on the stand to see that it came very, very low. So now we're wondering... How many lies were there in the whole process from our Mr. Matko. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102153	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102154	Mr. Matko isn't here, but I agree with you. So it was clear from the beginning that this had nothing to do with real or some struggle for human rights and freedoms, but just to try the pandemic and epidemic to sew up a political point. What is also interesting, the month and a half kept those signatures, and then in a statement, their parliamentary representative Miletic said that they had already had the exact number of signatures each day and every night as much as it was collected that they already knew that day that we had more than 400 thousand. Therefore, it would be good if inside the club first to comply with statements of who will say anything before they actually go public because then it turns out very awkward for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102155	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102156	My dear fellow Habib, you said you understood that the Bridge was trying to get to power. The bridge was in power in Metkovic, they blew it. They were in one government, they blew it. They were in another government, they blew it. I don't know how accurate that finding of yours is. I think it's better in this position, because I can lie here, I can insult here, I can call here, I can manipulate even these signatures. Being in power means making decisions, and when you make decisions, then you have to stand behind them. You can't cheat or lie or do what Grmoya is doing right now, and that's my opinion in relation to your opinion that they did this to come to power. They had the opportunity to make decisions. They had the opportunity to participate in the government. They had open arms in the ministries and could contribute very much to this Croatia. They didn't want to. It's simpler this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102157	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, actually, with you. It's a matter of responsibility, isn't it? It is difficult to take responsibility especially in this situation in which this government is, in fact, in that part of the end of the previous term of office of this government. So, what she's been through and all the hard decisions she's had to make. What's sad actually is that in part of the opposition, first of all I think about the Bridge there never really had any support except that it's actually as much in all possible ways trying to actually make it harder for the government to run this country in such a situation. And let us also remember the contribution of the Most in the Croatian Parliament if we look at some of their and legislative proposals that were rare, for example, I remember the good of the HGK or those changes around the Croatian Parliament, and interestingly, it was so casually done that if such a proposal was voted here in the Croatian Parliament, which changed only one article would still not be resolved, which is why they allegedly fought, and this was the abolition of membership in the Croatian Parliament. It's so casual and so much just shows how much their real goal is for some improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102158	Next last replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're a fellow Habian lawyer, and the lawyer's been educated, so that's why I'm setting up this replica for you. Namely, the opposition in the Croatian Parliament clearly has the right to communicate its political views and to go to the Constitutional Court with these and such political views. However, these views, unless they have a constitutional and legal argument, are generally collapsed in the Constitutional Court and then clearly the constitutional judges who disobeyed their political views are guilty and then these same judges are the extended hand of the HDZ. Never since this ruling majority has threatened any constitutional judge who has brought numerous separate opinions against the political position of us in the ruling majority, So here I am asking you for your comment on this very behavior of the opposition and the ruling majority. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102160	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102161	My dear colleague, I agree absolutely with you. I think it's a kind of pressure. So if the Constitutional Court, as a fourth pillar, actually the authorities in the Republic of Croatia make a decision that they don't like, then it's an extended hand of HDZ, then they're working on someone's order. However, there are two, three ever-separated opinions, especially in these decisions concerning the epidemic and the situation. However, I have never heard one of my colleagues say that, those judges who brought in and gave such an original opinion that they were not good, that they should be removed or that they should not be chosen next time. Thus, these are truly double standards and one hypocrisy. And also when you mentioned the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court in Germany, which is well seen as one of the best constitutional courts in the world has decided on a curfew in Germany. And that law, based on which it was passed and voted, was passed by a curfew with an ordinary majority. Therefore, it would be good to mention Germany as a good example that you take in all cases not only when it suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102162	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102163	Listen, the relative thing is, is it better not to object to someone, so don't choose them or object to them, and don't choose them. It's an impression now. So, as far as this topic is concerned, first of all, colleague Oreshkovic, I don't think it's a problem if someone who had a party card in the Constitutional Court, especially if they had a SDP card. But good. I think even that it wouldn't be a bad Constitutional Court if instead of three six colleagues elected from the Parliament. Let's say Habian, colleague Jelkovic and counterpart Bosnjakovic on one side and colleague Nadj, colleague Oreskovic, and now they can't and their colleague can't be on the other side. I don't think that court would be bad. It might be a debate like this or something, but it wouldn't be bad. What I wanted and didn't, what I wanted to say was that there are certain things that are kind of like homework. So, in a situation where there is an emergency situation but our constitution has not defined the word emergency. Therefore, Article 17 only states that by decision of the Assembly, certain rights may be limited by two-thirds of the majority in some cases, in fact, the question of what these cases are. And what Col. Habib mentioned in point 26 and 28, if I remembered correctly, the Constitutional Court actually said that these were all cases that we could bring everything in accordance with Article 16 and Article 17. I'm sorry I think I felt like someone was making a fool out of me, maybe I really am, but I don't think so. Because it actually turns out that article 17 is unnecessary, because if you can bring everything to the common majority good, and if the opposition votes for it again well. It's still a simple majority. Yes, a law with 120 votes if passed still has been passed by a simple majority if it is sought by a simple majority. So that's what's the fundamental grudge. Therefore, not to counterpart Bačić for some decisions, not because of decisions they have not made, where they have not clearly prescribed in this situation what the executive power can do to itself, or to its parliamentary majority, and what it can do without opposition in this situation. So, she was the first law if you remember it was going to be traced to the location of the cell phone, and then everyone got on their backs and gave it up. But according to what the Constitutional Court is saying, it would be possible to bring this to the common majority. Then a delay in parliamentary elections, that's what we've been calling for a while if you remember. Yes, if the two-thirds majority is possible, that would be constitutional but not usually by the majority to extend the mandate itself. So it's not like everything can be brought to the common majority, and that's why it's the objection. You must have heard my statement that some decisions were excellent, that this is the best composition so far, etc. So, it's nothing, it's not pressure at all. No, it's not pressure. It is not pressure, therefore, that he should say that if they bring a law, the assembly representatives will be pressured, so that the people will not choose them. If you pass a law that doesn't like your voters, maybe someone won't vote for you afterwards. And if we support some law of yours that doesn't like our voters, it's also likely that someone might not vote for us. That's it. Is that pressure? Not really. So in Parliament, we express political opinions, political views, sometimes we argue, sometimes we agree, and that's it. Now, as far as this referendum is concerned, in 50%, we agree with the rulings, and in these other 50%, we agree with this organisational initiative. So, since you decided a little bit more today by MOST ok, that's your political tactics, you can't say that it's not illegal. Because if you remember one of the stronger discussions on the referendum, it was when a colleague of the Voice had to defend our president from fellow Rasputic. Remember that? Yeah, it had to be, it was interesting. Therefore, this is no longer a topic of pandemics, vaccines, or health policies. So this is the theme for us to finally be in this sensitive situation that may sometimes be repeated because you never know how these owls or new viruses or war dangers clearly distinguish the line, to be a line of distinction when Article 16 applies and when something can only be done by executive authority, and when it takes a two-thirds majority. And the institution that in Croatia by choice and by constitutional authority should do so is the Constitutional Court and therefore my intervention was in that they did not do the basic task when they were supposed to, but it is not too late, but let them make it. So whatever decision they make to demarcate the article. 16th and 17th, I won't have any big remarks except that anything can be done and that anything can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102164	Replica, respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102165	Dear colleague. First of all, I'd like to commend you for your presentation on behalf of the club, but you really gave HDZ a lesson exactly as you should. As far as the constitutional court's composition is concerned, we obviously don't agree. I'm not saying that constitutional judges who would be elected from the ranks of MPs would not be able to perform that function, but personally, I don't think we really need a product of some former party personnel in the Constitutional Court. But it's something about the future. And the bottom line is, what you said was the distinction between art. 16th and 17th, that line you were talking about has already been withdrawn, it has been withdrawn in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and we do not need a constitutional court to draw it again. Everything the Constitutional Court had to establish, and he was wrong and therefore the criticism was justified, it was right to say that the pandemic itself was an extraordinary situation, which means that it was originally to be applied. 17 The constitution and there's the end of the story. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102166	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102167	As for membership in the party, I am proud to join a political party voluntarily, and I don't think it should be a disqualification at some point for the conduct of a public office, any political party. And I really don't think it's bad for the constitutional court to be people who were politicians, they don't have to be dominant but to be a certain number of people with experience in political life, precisely because, among other things, they're solving certain recommendations that are political. That's what it's all about. As for what you said about the border being withdrawn, it's the border between Croatia and Slovenia on June 25, 1991, we know about where it is, but we've been fighting for 30 years where exactly, and the constitutional court is arbitration, that's it. So it's written in principle, but for a specific right whether it should be limited by a two-thirds majority or not, that's the question. I'm here for the reduction, but not for the total elimination of the two-thirds majority, so I'm more on the side of the article. 16. ... Time, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102168	Here's a replicant for Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102169	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk. You mentioned now in the heat of your argument that if anything can be done in an article. 16-and-a-half. 17, then. 17. Not at all, but in fact, Art. The 17th should be because he's for some difficult condition, for a war situation, he can't be that he doesn't need him, he needs him. Now you and many others, when it comes to an epidemic, say the two-thirds majority. In this century, we have been hit by several major natural disasters, floods, two earthquakes, epidemics, a pandemic some rights in... limited and more than with an epidemic or an earthquake, but no one has thought to ask for a two-thirds vote on whether an engineer or a statist can forbid someone from entering a space because it's a restriction on his health and life, and when a doctor says you need to test yourself because you're so jeopardizing his roommate in the hospital room and then we need a two-thirds vote there. So give me a little bit of an explanation of your indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102170	It's a short minute, but I'll try. So, you're theoretically right because this article of the constitution speaks of war danger, etc. Well, in the heat of the debate, I wasn't precise enough, but I'll be more specific now. So, a major natural disaster, according to some constitutional court resolution, involves the pandemic, so I was just thinking about that part. If in a major natural accident or pandemic, all rights can be limited by art. 16 then, in the case of a major natural disaster, The 17th was too high and unnecessary, and here I am now a little more precise. And as for the other major natural disasters you mentioned, no one asked for the simple reason that it was obviously not such an extent that it required any HS decision at all, let alone two-thirds. And I don't think it would take all of two-thirds of the majority, and neither the law but something and the decisions of the headquarters, but the greatest measures, the largest restrictions in this case, which may have been two or three, per me, required a two-thirds majority. And they weren't even controversial, they'd get a two-thirds majority probably. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102171	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you're saying that the Constitutional Court did not distinguish when the government decided, when the council decided, that it did not distinguish when necessary. 16, Art. 17. You're completely wrong. Why? If the measures prescribed by the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, which is the basis for the government's conduct and the headquarters adopted by a two-thirds majority or adopted qualified as adopted in this term would be the same powers of the government, the government would not have any other powers, the government would not be able to act outside the measures prescribed by law if they were adopted by virtue of the Article. 17 or 17. 16. Therefore, the parliament has prescribed measures, and the government has only prescribed their time activation, and we have made them very clear here as a legislative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102173	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102174	Here I am in 98% of the cases you're right, and I'm talking about these 2% that I think neither the constitutional court nor the government nor you're wrong. But here you have after an individual debate that you do not have to receive a warning, so take 30 seconds and when you say that the Constitutional Court has distinguished when an article is applied. 16 when 17. give me one right for which in this pandemic theoretically for which a two-thirds majority would be necessary in the assembly, and not enough in a half, then we could say that at least there's a limit to that one. And in this case we have that the border is kind of fluid and that you can actually say 16 and a half 17, de facto I characterized it as a self-service of the majority. Okay, if you can get 2/3 of the majority isn't bad enough having a two-thirds, if you can't do the usual, then we will, so we'll confirm. I didn't like that. all over this story. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102175	The next replica honours Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bauk, the membership of constitutional judges on a political site seems to me to be only questionable whether members were possibly your party or our party as large parties, and the court is making those who are members of small and minimal parties who I don't think should view it that way at all. I'd like another opinion when we talk about Articles 16 or 17. The Constitution itself of the pandemic or epidemic in this case, which appeared in Article 16 itself, states that it applies to the legal order, public morality and health. So, this explicitly refers to health, while Article 17 actually speaks of natural disasters. Is it more natural to put it to health or to accident? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102177	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102178	In most cases, health, and in exceptional circumstances. So, it's not, it's not for me, so I'm not one of those who thinks everything should be decided by the council and everything should be 2/3 of the majority, but I think that some things depend on the weight because we didn't know how the soybeans were going to develop, this omicron could be a little harder and really require some larger restrictions. Then it's better when we're in a situation like this to say in advance which restrictions we need for, with a simple majority, and which with 2/3. Otherwise, we are in danger that whatever the authorities are, so it could have been ours to simply deprive this of reducing human rights and putting everything under a health firm. There's got to be some, some power that's still an opposition to any one that's going to hang on or still require more gas to be added because we've had, I've been following, and my party's had two kinds of objections. One is that measures are not strict enough and the other are not mild enough. So it wasn't unique, it depends on each other. measures. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102179	Hrvoje Zekanovic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102180	Dear colleague Bauk, you told one truth at the end of your presentation, which is that it's no longer about whether we're actually going to send these questions to the Constitutional Court for assessment. And it doesn't matter either the pandemic or the vaccination, but I do, and I want to hear your opinion, whether it's important that we repeat it today from this pay phone or from this house that was actually the initiator of this initiative, why they did it and what was done damage thanks to this initiative. Is our duty to point out this loud and clear today without twisting, despite the fact that the subject is something else entirely?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102181	Yeah, well, I'm in an interesting situation. I prefer the slogan of this other initiative that we're going to send to the Constitutional Court than this first one we don't want to send to the Constitutional Court, that's one thing. Secondly, as I said in the last sentence, the last sentence of exposure in the name of the club is not our war, but it is in the supposed signs of our war to distinguish our war for the future and for the possible continuation of the pandemic because you never know what can be produced from all these strains, the limit that can only be done by power, the executive power with its majority, and for which it needs an agreement with the opposition that is power and whatever opposition it is. And that's the fundamental request of the Constitutional Court. I've taken every, sterile task, I've used every opportunity to call people to vaccination, I've vaccinated three times, if I need to be vaccinated once again if the health authorities say that level of trust from me they have, even though there have been illogical decisions and here's nothing I call on people to vaccinate and to protect their health when it's up to date again. Now we're, Ukraine put a little bit of that... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102182	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, most of my own, my thoughts on this, these two decisions I said on behalf of the club, and now I'm going to add a little bit more. Namely, if we abstract this issue relating to the Citizens' Initiative "Enough of Post-Corruption" because I think 90% of MPs agree to be asked in the Constitutional Court and that it is counter-constitutional, then I will concentrate on this second issue relating to the referendum initiative "Let's decide together". So all those who have advocated 2/3 of the decision in the Croatian Parliament for two and more, two years and two months have not answered the simple question. What if it doesn't reach 2/3 of the majority in the assembly? And as club president four years ago, I tried to reach 2/3 of the majority with the opposition in the assembly to establish and elect the constitutional judges that required 101 votes. And in order to establish the Constitutional Court as the fourth branch of government in Croatia, we were valued by the left hand side of the pay phone, that we must appoint a temporary body, commission, investigative commission on Agrokor which they are, and we also knew that when we found it, it would take maybe 15-20 days because in the meantime the indictment would be filed. So, we should, look, we should have an ad hoc body assumed by the Constitutional Court as... Public authorities to raise 101 hands in the assembly and appoint judges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then you can, I never asked that question here, but I can say that now. Would we then be valued for every measure for some sort of concession? So is there perhaps an opposition requires 2/3 of the majority that in order to decide what is important for the life and health of our citizens we would be valued for some pragmatic request or question that is important at a given time of opposition? That's one question. The second thing, the opposition argues that two-thirds of the measure would have had greater confidence in Croatian citizens, it was one that the citizens' trust was based on whether the measure was adopted by a two-thirds or a qualified majority. The confidence of citizens in Croatia is based solely on the argument that the measure restricting human rights and freedoms in Croatia is appropriate and proportionate to the dangers of execution that limit rights and freedoms. It can be brought with 151 hands in HS, and it's completely missed and even worse done more damage than it was brought at all. It doesn't matter if it's two-thirds or qualified, it's important that the scale and proper nature of the deaths that this epidemic, war, fire, earthquake represents in front of individual citizens in Croatia. And the third thing that is very important that I have to say, that by any chance we had no experience in this epidemic, that we knew that there was a covid certificate in the world before, that we knew that there was self-insulation that we didn't have, that we didn't have a measure of self-insulation, that we had brought a measure of self-insulation into this epidemic, but that we had before we had been led by experience in the fight against another disease, HS would have nothing to discuss either qualified nor usually or two-thirds because we were not as a representative body, as a legislative body, we were taking some new measures than we were using measures from the niche prescribed by the Law on the protection of the public. Both the government and the headquarters were able to only adopt the measures prescribed by law, so these measures that we have already adopted in this term were already in the existing law adopted in 2014. or in the '15s, I don't know exactly if they were prescribed, we wouldn't have anything to discuss in the assembly, but based on the measures that we've already adopted in that law, the government would have acted and the council would not have decided at all. So if there is a new epidemic, or if this one continues, we will no longer be able to bring together any more if we don't have any new knowledge that there is some measure that has come in the meantime... knowledge of the nature of this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102184	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102185	Dear colleague Bacic. So the term “sufficientity is enough” suggests that the public has been manipulated. There's a saying in the people that a man will hold his word and a bull for the horns. In this situation, the Bridge and their initiatives have a situation not only on word but also on a signed statement certified by the public notary that they have been deceived, we have coalition agreements that have played one and the other, we have a whole series of such procedures that indicate that they do not stick to words and lie. Now the question is raised, and the proposal of this statement by our colleague Zekanovic why should they now be caught, given for word or for some other part of the body if we think that the nose grows when a man lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102186	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102187	Thank you, colleague Klaric. These two initiatives that the Bridge is behind, and I didn't say that, the Bridge counted the signatures for 37 days, and it was wrong for 25,000 signatures. So, when they brought the signatures to the assembly, they deceived the Croatian public, the president of HS that they had collected 410 and I see that many of you are still baratate with 410, not 410, but 382,000 for one, and... for the other, so 37 days they counted to make a mistake for 25,000. It doesn't matter to me anyway. This referendum was exclusively created as an opposition to the Bridges and bridge representatives of the covid certificates, it is essentially at the core of these referendums. The bridge opposed covid's certificates because he appreciated the covid's certificate of coercion by which Human rights are significantly restricted. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102188	They're doing Simičević's next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102189	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. This is where the article is mentioned. 16, Art. The 17th Constitution, now is the question that we wanted to apply the article. 17. whether the opposition would like to support it or not, so it's always a matter of all kinds of questions with them. But Cat's trying to seduce us all, but we're fighting and we're not eating. But my question to you, we have members of the EC, we have European parliaments and they have a full longer democracy than we do. Have decisions been made by a two-thirds majority in one European Parliament, given that we have not only been hit by a pandemic but also by the EU and the whole world? I don't think I've read anywhere that the same European state that is much older is democratic than it has made me such a decision for the effect of preventing the pandemic itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102190	I thank my colleague Simičević. Yes, I said no parliament. But you know when the constitution was passed? 1990. Since then, Croatia has been through aggression, war, epidemics. This is not the first one as my colleague Totgergeli said through epidemics, through fires, through earthquakes, floods, and no government has ever said, and I believe that there have been worse and greater deaths than this epidemic, has been committed to the activation of art. 17. And you know what I was interested in when I was preparing for this debate? I opened the discussion of all the records when the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted and I watched, read what they were about. 17. speak constitutional law experts and those for whom we can assume a closer left option and left political parties. They were then, so in the 1990s afraid that the activation of the article doesn't bring the blockade of the state. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102191	The next replica of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102192	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear colleague Bacic. Well, here is the debate, and we mentioned, so the Constitution itself and Article 16, article 17. What we may not have mentioned was that the Constitutional Court and brought its own testimony regarding both the covid of certificates and found that they were not anti-constitutional or that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament were all that they did in the most difficult and critical moments and were bringing in accordance with the Constitution. There has always been and always will be generals after the battle, but what is a problem is to deceive, lie, insult, everything that happens on the one hand, and on the other hand, where concrete, strong and strong decisions are made, shows citizens who are responsible politicians and who is the one who lives on deception. It raises the question of Sberbank, LNG, tourist season, economy, job conservation, five billion kuna packages and who would do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102193	I agree with my colleague, Mazhar. I said just before that I had read the minutes when the Constitutional Commission discussed all the solutions and articles of the Constitution, and then they greatly reduced the number of possible possibilities to activate Article 17 in order not to, through the need for the need for the two-thirds majority to be determined at Parliament level, in fact, made it impossible for the state to take the quick measures needed by the majority forming the government. It's a qualified majority that forms a government. And while the government has and while it insists, it has citizens' trust, the same majority rules here in the Parliament how and how to limit human rights and that possibility, so the regulation of human rights draws on the basis of the mandates it received in the democratic elections. And these were the reasons why we decided on Article 16 because it was possible, so Article 17 did not bring a number of measures, and then we didn’t know at all what because we weren’t familiar with the epidemic that was.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102194	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102195	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bačić, I would like to point out here once again that it is not exactly what the opposition calls us today that we do not appreciate the people who have signed these referendum initiatives. We appreciate everything these citizens have done and appreciate their attitude. But I also stress our commitment as those who act as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, that at a time when there is a dilemma amongst the professional public whether these issues of such content are in accordance with the Constitution, means professional public, constitutional and legal experts cannot agree on it. I think it is right to send these questions to the Constitutional Court as the only measuring body to tell the last of them, regardless of who their opinion will like or dislike. We all have to respect that opinion. And also related to what you said the Constitutional Judges also said what would happen, it's not justified what would happen. If we do not make a decision pursuant to Article 17. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102196	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102197	I agree with my colleague Jelkovac. No matter how the Constitutional Court decides, I am and you are a member of the Committee on the Constitution. It seems to me that most constitutional and legal experts there have claimed the necessity of referring to the Constitutional Court, so how does the Constitutional Court evaluate it? As the Constitutional Court assesses, I will no longer appreciate the work of the Constitutional Judges, and I will not be judged by such a decision by certain judges in the position that they have lost our trust, but will still have the same attitude. But on that left side, it's not the same case. Judges who do not make decisions as the opposition expects, are called to organise a round table on which the Moderator was one judge of the Constitutional Court for a wonderful miracle yesterday in the Green-Left bloc Croatian Assembly. This has not happened so far in constitutional and legal practice for 30 years of an independent and sovereign Croatian state. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102198	I think that my colleague Bačić is a fundamental difference how I have now been able to detect your fear of making decisions, and our concern is that we have too broadly understood the reach of Article 16 by the parliamentary majority. So, if for a decision that should be made in its nature according to Article 17, but not because of that, you can collect a two-thirds majority but it is so difficult, if we did not agree on a two-thirds majority, we would have made a similar decision in a milder scale for which a half-dominated majority is enough and you would have a political view that we are wrong, that we are irresponsible, that we are bad because we did not support this proposal and that our view will have bad consequences for the citizens. It would be a normal parliamentary debate. So, for me, it is exclusively reaching some measure of whether it should be passed to this or to that majority. And I just think that these reached Articles 16 and 17 should be clearly distinguished by the Constitutional Court, that it is a fundamental task in this situation, just the Constitutional Court. and because of the way you choose and because of the matter [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102199	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102200	I thank my colleague, Bauk. You've completely misread the MOST proposal. MOST did not say what your SDP president said that the parliament should decide for a two-thirds majority on everything, and also on measures concerning the distance of stands on Treshnyvac's salary between two maids. MOST requires that only two-thirds of the majority be determined by restrictions on human rights and freedoms, and now that means that it is significantly deviating from you, and neither they nor you have made an act that should bring it to the two-thirds majority in these two years. MOST thinks that any law restricting human rights and freedoms should be made by a two-thirds majority, and you would settle it by a decision, a single decision to prescribe what rights should be restricted by a two-thirds majority. Well, why didn't you and MOST write an act in two years? You write numerous laws amendments to these laws, one article and what you consider most important you never proposed to the Croatian Parliament. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102201	Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, today we are actually discussing Article 16 and Article 17 when it comes to the first question and now how in the Constitution Article 16 is a milder form, Article 17 is for harder forms. And now that we're having a debate here from, in that debate of colleagues, Bauk's fallout needs to figure out where to place something, what to place in Article 16, and what to place in Article 17. However, if we implement such a referendum hypothetically and it passes more Article 16 is cast out, Article 17 remains in the event of an epidemic and a pandemic and then the simplest form. Literally, whether or not to be tested when entering the hospital when the doctor decides that it should be tested must be reviewed on the basis of Article 17, not in more articles 16. So that's where we get into a trap that apparently my colleague Bauk understands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102203	You see, colleague Totgergeli, I, from the first day of the gathering, from the beginning of the signing of this pay phone, said that someone had set up the MOST badly when he referred him to this referendum. Why? Because before that, the Constitutional Court said that regardless of whether an epidemic or a pandemic was going to be written in Article 17, that it was a legislator, and that the Croatian Parliament wanted to act under Article 17, he had already had a natural disaster under which he could commit a pandemic. Therefore, even if it were to go to the referendum, even if it were to sign the epidemic again, it was up to you, me, colleagues Bauku, Grmoji, colleague Oreshkovic, and how he would fight the epidemic. If there was once a time in this country that, that she was threatened by death, then it was a great Serb aggression, and we didn't bring the same thing then 2/3 of the necessary acts and laws to restrict human rights, and we are numerous human rights through the fight for freedom... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102204	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102205	Thank you. Of course, what you're saying is incorrect, so that nothing will change because people can't deny the will of the people, and it's clear what people have told the signatures. That they do not want to violate or restrict human rights simply by a simple majority or even worse decision by two or three people who have actually admitted that they have never met in full. But what I'm really worried about is these scandalous statements where you're saying that we can't go into creating some kind of, or looking for 2/3 of the majority because there's a danger that this 2/3 of the majority can't be found. So tomorrow you can say there's a danger that you can't raise 76 hands, and decisions need to be made, so you'll bring them in with 50 or 60 hands. The constitution is to define what decisions are required by 2/3 of the majority, for which decisions are made by a simple majority. And these little concessions you're about to make are not concessions where you gave something to the SDP. Well, I think the good thing was to start. A commission on Agrokor. [[Intruder: Time.]] You're not. Is there some sort of concession that costs Croatian citizens something? [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102206	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102207	So often you from MOST are calling for democratic profiles, reaching numerous states, not this epidemic and pandemic that is exclusively the right of us Croats and Croatian states in the world, but through it are all democratic states in Europe, and none of them are aware of how and how this epidemic should be fought, they have not decided to limit the rights that would bring 2/3 to the majority. It is not the headquarters of the colleagues of Grmoja, you cannot understand it, it is not the headquarters that restricts human rights and freedoms, but it is the assembly that has laid down which rights and when they can be limited, and at headquarters it is as the professional body and government that oversees it that this measure, which the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, will apply from 1 February to 31 March and nothing more. [[Intruder: Time.]] They did not determine most of the measures but only prescribed when activated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102208	Replica next, respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102209	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you said that we had previous experiences, that we had previously prescribed measures of course that everything would be different. However, at a time when we had to deliver the number of vaccinated, sick, tested once a week when map was made and categorized both countries and regions were to respond to all health threats in a timely manner. If we look at the latest report from September 1st to December 31st, the headquarters made 54 decisions. As a longtime parliamentary representative, you certainly know how and in what time the assembly can react and how these decisions could be reflected in health instead of the headquarters. What would be the result then, and of course the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102210	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102211	I thank my colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, and I have already said that and you have now confirmed it. When, in times of crisis, the speed of making certain decisions is the assumption of the success of these measures, those steps taken, which are taken. And the representation of the speed of execution is this executive power. You were the mayor of Vodice, you know that when you were supposed to react that you did it, that you went to the council, until, while he called you, he spent his bodies, it would have been in Vodice, and it wouldn't have happened. It's the same in the assembly. The Parliament has given a framework, this framework is called the Law on the Protection of Publicities, it has written down which rights can be limited and how it puts it into the hands of those who have been elected, by the basis of the Constitution it is the executive authority, you are now carrying out it for us and you are making an account for it. And it's in us, too. and in every democratic state the same procedure. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102212	Grozdana Peric, next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102213	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases in Article 2 states that the Minister responsible for Health at the HZJZ proposal declares the threat of epidemic, infectious disease, etc. and all of this is published in the National Journal, and by virtue of this, the government is making a re-determined decision declaring the epidemic. That's why this is an epidemic, and the scales are pandemic, which is why it's art. A 16-bit reference to health and who clearly then speaks about how and in what way, and all of this is previously prescribed by the Civil Protection Act, in fact, the procedural how they will react to what and how they will react and how quickly they will be able to react in these and such cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102214	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102215	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Peric. Now that I'm not quoting a colleague of the Habian, he has already legally explained what it would mean to activate the assembly in these decisions by two-thirds of the majority and what activation the government may actually decide because it is up to it to determine the day when epidemics and pandemics begin. Thus, we are already slowly troublesome by the article. Article 17, i.e. 16 and you're right, I've said that 100 times already. Nothing in this epidemic and this pandemic would have been decided by the Assembly that we had all the measures in the law which is the basis of the fight against infectious diseases. Even if we had had experience fighting covida-19 before we would have already prescribed these measures and had no need to change the law at all but the government would, by virtue of the existing Law on Public Protection, have fought the same epidemic, as was the case with other epidemics that were in Croatia and were not as large as the covid-19.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102216	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102217	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I think the benches are saying enough who does what, how does it, when we talk about the behavior of the government and when we talk about what the opposition is doing. Years, six years. We are on the bumper as HDZ, as the ruling majority of all institutions that attack those who call themselves democratic, democratic of us. What we've heard, especially in these last 2 years, about to the Supreme Court, many other institutions, I don't know, Uskok, PNUSKOK, police, constitutional court now, nothing's wrong. We are making a great effort to try to keep the citizens in trust with these institutions, lightly spoken sentences, thoughts, which offend, and what colleagues of Bauk who blackmailed them practically with their debate as much as I've heard, that if you don't make the decisions we expect, you don't have our trust anymore. Have we ever stood on the wrong side of the party? that we tried these institutions, that we tried to insult them, so we told others that they were democratic or not as democratic as we are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102218	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102219	I thank my colleague, Boric. Yes, there have been situations in our six years. when the Constitutional Court made decisions that did us no good. I could now count five or six decisions of a constitutional court that I disagree with. The Household Act has been returned to us by the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has abolished the Croatian qualification framework, the Constitutional Court has abolished the provisions of a law on which we, as a government and a parliament, have strongly exposed ourselves to a part of Croatian citizens, and these are protected tenants, we have been abolished by the Law on renting apartments that we thought were very good at. A few days ago, the constitutional court abolished the regulation on water-service areas in Croatia. Have you heard, you, that HDZ is because of any of these decisions that are extremely important, that I am not saying that but no constitutional court has dared to touch the law on... That's what this court brought and threw us that hot potato, we're never against words against a constitutional court. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102220	Time. The next replica honours MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102221	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, here I think it is necessary to point out once again that the pre-referendum legal procedure itself actually implies the possibility of reviewing the contents of the referendum issue and its alignment in fact with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that it is not the first time that such a thing is done and happening, that it is a normal part of the procedure and that it is a good thing that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia actually determines the constitutionality of the assumed issue. What I also think is important to emphasise is the importance of respecting the legal order, the importance of respecting democratic procedures, but also the strengthening of Croatian institutions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia thinks it is extremely important and important to strengthen institutions, not to go in the direction of their destruction, as we see from the Bridge team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102222	Thank you, fellow Buric. My bet on the activation of Art. Article 17 16. will not change depending on the position of HDZ, and we were an opposition when ruling then SDP and its coalition partners fought with any other epidemic, we did not insist on them or ask them to, and at that time, to reduce and limit human rights and freedoms in Croatia, then HDZ did not, at no time try to plant your leg that what you're doing is not good from the constitutional aspect of the respect, so come to the Assembly to decide for the two-thirds majority, we did not because it was the right majority of the constitution found that when it comes to protecting public health, which is the fight against the epidemic in any case, please choose to use those constitutional powers that the founder of this HS gave you, and we have thus continued in this epidemic and now because of this disagreement should destroy the institutions, it is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102223	And the last replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102224	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, the Constitutional Court has been in a decision since September 2020. He mentioned the principles on which the work of the Civil Protection Staff was based, so he mentioned the principle of humanity,... discrimination, subsidiarity, solidarity, continuity of action, among other things he mentioned the principle of operational action. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does it mean? So the urgency and promptity of dealing with situations like this is the situation we have with the epidemic and the question is, how would HS operate in those situations that we're actually talking about all the time and what actually gives you the right to all of this that you've actually mentioned in achieving a two-thirds majority. I also don't see exactly what the problem is, because the Constitutional Court is already on several occasions about some security measures that the headquarters has brought to question their constitutionality. Therefore, even in the event that this referendum does not go through either in the constitutional court or that nothing in principle changes in the referendum, so the human rights that were partly justified, which confirmed the same constitutional court in its decision or decision, there is again the possibility that through a constitutional suit for anyone to question his constitutionality. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102225	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102226	I'd like to thank my colleague, Habian. The Constitutional Court would also bring down measures taken by a two-thirds majority if they were not appropriate and proportionate, so it is absolutely wrong, as it could bring down measures taken not with a two-thirds majority but with a 100% majority, that is what the opposition does not understand. So, it doesn't matter if you've brought a two-thirds measure by majority, qualified by majority or by 100% majority when human rights and freedoms are limited rather than whether the measure is appropriate and proportionate. And it will not be citizens' trust to this extent because we brought it with 109 hands but whether it is effective, whether it is appropriate or proportionate to the nature that this disease represents before our fellow citizens' lives and the constitutional court would appreciate it. And if we brought it with this much or so many hands under 76, it can't be at all questionable, it's an art. 16th Croatian Constitution, that is The Constitutional Court was the only criterion. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102227	What does the Rules of Procedure say when the president has to go to the bathroom? Five minutes break. [[It's a meeting at 8:42 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:47 A.M.]] Next is the debate of the respected representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102229	What we heard here today about the referendum of Plenkovic's Boric's snowflake, via Bačić, over, and how... I won't even speak... Zekanovic's all gone, I'm sorry they're not here, and it's time to tell them in the face what they are. These are hypocrites at this point here are three HDZ's, four that are absolutely working in the interest of the ruling majority. It's never... a referendum, let's pick representatives by name and last name, he boycotted them and similar ones, but it wouldn't be good for him. I would just briefly say that this is a classic collapse, I repeat the collapse of human rights and freedoms and the restriction of human rights and freedoms were and this referendum was simply primarily this constitutional issue where it was decided by a two-thirds majority essentially would be unquestionable. And as for headquarters and headquarters, they have done great damage to the political, economic, economic. The people were so frustrated that protests took place, the covid certificates were pointless, Zekanovic and you repeated them to the HDZ lying mainly to Plenkovic's snowflake, Boric. It's a lie that we voted for headquarters, it's a lie, I guarantee that a lie must be made to check if Most was voting the whole club back then, I don't know when it was two years ago. You've been fooling the public, mostly the staff from headquarters, that's a fact. As mayor, I am proud of the moment when it was issued that we must control the covid certificate I gave it then and it was published by the official sites of the city of Sinja that the mayor and those who have covid certificates and those who do not and that no one has chosen me and that there is no right for the mayor to abolish the human rights and freedoms of counterpart Klaric, you have done so and all the other mayors and mayors. You have violated fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is why the citizens of Bakar, I don't know the other cities didn't choose you. That's where President Milanovic stayed until the moment the decision came and he gave it up, I kept it until the end. The inspections, the inspectorates, the terror on all sides was impossible to have numerous penalties of course somewhere around 100 thousand kunas, now I don't know in the kuna maybe more, but here's a first-degree verdict I got. And you remember when Plenkovic and even at the moment Beros season at the moment and only the party card of counterpart Klaric you as mayor know was important. At the moment I was elected mayor, the season began if it was touristic, in Sinj was then Alka and Big Lady Day, I call for here at the ham fair Friday, Saturday come to Sinj will be the center of Dalmatia, there will be a gastro offer, tradition, folk costumes, customs, folklore, there will be everything. You know what he did? You forbid Thompson's concert, I don't know anyone's banned, I didn't mean to ban it. I didn't want to ban Mila Kekin, they were all gone, even these Thompsons who are the organizers of the concert outside of town, outside the programme of the town of Sinj, and the cold beer was within the S.K.U.P. programme, the festival, the Sarsi and the beer is and he no matter what they gave up. Thompson's organizers who were on their own watching Mile Keka's concert and providing for it, it was in Sinj. Inconceivable, uh, unimaginable, beer and Kekin, and this one's hugging the escalating stars. He must be ashamed. Beroš hugs and kisses, and blames the young, while my young for Sinjska alka buys in Livno to be, of course, the honor of Livno, 70, 80 km across the mountain of Kameshnica. Will he come back alive? The waiters, DJ, all of them, even I was a DJ for a while, and that judge me, for the Great Lady like by midnight the crown, and from midnight the crown wakes up, does it? What lies and deceptions. And only Sinj was focused on him, the only one, so they invented that the greatest mortality in Sinj was, but they only calculated the centre of Sinj 10,000 people, and Sinj has 25,000 people and even the media called back then, so calculate that they have downloaded. They didn't cheat anymore if it was a lie, they were pushing lies, frauds, except I'm not in HDZ. I, as mayor, am proud, now to resign, to be punished, to be taken down, not to be a representative, is it repugnant to listen to this here, these lies and deceptions, mainly of your trolls that you brought to the assembly over the troll, the ear is then over I don't know who Plenkovic or... no more matter. It's just plain, I'm not gonna say Taliban, I insult the Taliban. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102230	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102231	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I think the citizens now have a choice, they know what they will get when they choose free people like you, as the Sinjans have chosen well and you did not share anyone, elections are coming soon in Split, and we will soon have elections in Croatia. I am ordering here, I hope that the Splits will choose a bridge that will always be for their rights and freedoms, and not as sharp as the Pulak, and as the HDZ candidate will be, therefore, people who are free. And also when elections come to remember who was with them, who was on the defender of human rights and freedom, and who was on the defender of these compromised institutions, as counterpart Boris said, he said they were on the defender of the constitutional court. And who's sitting in a constitutional court? People who faked themselves in Austria, people who are therefore here as Ingrid Antičević Marinović, so we know what kind of experts they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102232	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102233	I was proud to be mayor of the free city of Sinja, and it was mostly for the New Year when it was a concert, so Plenkovic ordered me to be punished by his minister but there were no elements, and so there was a concert of amendments to the law that they were going to punish me and so on, it was cost-consuming, but they were giving me an ad, so... to my city and so he was one of the most visited concerts I've ever seen. And it makes sense for him in Zagreb, in Split the target fence up to half the square as the crown is pig so he can't get through that fence, I mean amazingly, and as a bigger one, I mean amazingly what they were doing. So what did they do to people, end their freedom, do worse, and... There can be half a racetrack, and outside they're waiting on each other to come in, and they're all in masks, and then Covid comes in with Plenkovic's confirmation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I test for him the crown of the Sonjite, not, who knows, was infected, as I shall know, as he was vaccinated with any confirmation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So many lies, so much deception, so many bad messages, so many people. It provoked that it was incredible and so much damage. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102234	Dear Marin Miletic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102235	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader. Dear colleague Bulj spoke several times today, yesterday I wrote it in public, so FDA and Pfizer publicly called the Croatian media, so I know the responsibility when you speak here so you can't turn out to be a regular. So, it's been proved on trial that they had all the data that people who got over Covid had a stronger immune system than the vaccinated, so all the mainstream media published it yesterday afternoon after 14 o'clock on their media. It's a court case because Pfizer was hiding it, and we're talking about a Pfizer who was convicted of 2.3 billion, so you know, they paid $2.3 billion because they were dealing with bribery and corruption. This is the judgment of the legal people, including some of them, or Beroch. Now that they've been found to be lying, what? Who's going to file an account for that? People, this isn't a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102236	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102237	My colleague Miletic has nothing to add, I think. What they have made of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is the greatest shame that has ever happened. This was pure aggression, the creation of obedience to the abolition of human rights and freedoms. Denying in a way to see exactly, as if they were willing to see who was obedient, who wasn't. I didn't ban anyone in Sinj from vaccination, everything was organized, I wasn't vaccinated, I wasn't over it, but I tested myself, it was my choice. I've been testing myself. However, when I came to the assembly, it seems to me that Mrs. Beničić our colleague was vaccinated, she had Covid's confirmation and came here to us who were tested to carry the disease. It's not her fault. It's the law to give her a chance. So all of you who had Covid's confirmation were legally legal because of those stupid, ridiculous, rude, anti-constitutional, anti-national decisions that transmitted this disease legally. Well, that's amazing what was going on. To violate human rights and freedoms has no right, the Constitution of this world is a sacred letter in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102238	The last replica, dear Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102239	Dear fellow Bulj, when you called me about the election, I received the trust of my constituents as many as six times and with 60 and 70 percent and we manage that work, or we serve our citizens. But you explain to me when the MOST is so strong and for the benefit of its citizens how it was able to lose Metkovic, that's where it came from, and here people were promised hills and valleys. I don't see that Most is down in power. How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102240	Come on, when you're so wise and you've abolished human rights and freedoms, I guess the people of Bakar have recognized that you've terrorized them and that you've accepted this game of masterstream and everything that's been happening together and what's been played and we'll see what time will show. Explain to me simply whether you ever had an inspection, an inspectorate and how many times you've had since you've been mayor of six terms. How many, I've had one 20 times in the last three months, and I've been told by the employees that they haven't remembered that they remember that he was ever an inspectorate, ever. Every day, every day, Andrija Mikulić calls every day, every day, so every little bit, and then I have fines in all, one 200-300 thousand kuna, for all it's my fault, since '45. To this day. And you're telling me that Metkovic lost the election, that in Sinj they lost the election, what happened to them, Sinj is a bigger city than Bakar and than Metkovic, you have a population of... As much as Sinj, and I can pray to God Sanader Ante and Boban that I'm not going to mayor would be to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102241	Time, like the last time you won, right? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, to the last term of office of Miro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102242	The violation of Rules of Procedure of 238, the speaker does not stick to the subject, and, by the way, he calls through the replica of his fellow MPs. As for the inspection, you know where I work and who's in power there. I think there are few mayors in Croatia like myself and my colleague current Minister Oleg Butkovic who has had more applications, more inspections, more anything, Mr Miletic can confirm this, more disputes than we do. And we all came out clean, and our results show up. The fact is that Bakar is less of a population than The city of Sin yours but it's more traffic, and that's our work. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102243	You're getting a warning. Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102244	A colleague, Klaric, injured Article 238, because he puts it in my mouth, i.e. He disrespects me as an advocate, puts something in my mouth that I didn't say. I said you say the number how many times you've been,... 4-5 inspectors all day with badges and questioning, when they were and you didn't give me that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These stories we are this, we are what they do to me that you know it's a novel with, and mostly all those who were their dads, they're the HDZs, they're mostly like that, they can list them for you. Sanader knows very well, he even set them up, exclusively disrupting me. [[Intruder: Time.]] But I became mayor. [[Intruder: Time.]] But the sea would pay for the mass of what, he'd become mayor for not running for office. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102245	Miro's running for office in the last term, so you lost. Maria Jelkovac, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102246	Dear Vice President, thank you. A colleague of Bulj has been injured by Article 238. The rules of procedure because he disrespected representative Klaric. I am saddened by my colleague Bulj when he has no answer to what his counterpart Klaric asked in the replica, she is changing the subject. I don't know if it's some kind of infectious disease you have at the MOST, so that's how you perform when you don't know what you'd answer or resort to some other methods like telling the truth. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102247	You're getting a warning. Next individual debate, respected Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102248	Thank you. In order for it not to turn into a debate with MP Klaric, I respect that, the fact that he has been chosen so many times, it doesn't have to mean that someone is clean. The late mayor Bandic has been elected many times, and some have done a good job of losing the election, but I don't put you in that category and I haven't heard about you anything controversial, so I don't think this should turn into a debate about it, this one respects it. Just like it doesn't mean that someone who's lost the election to, yeah, do a bad job, so sometimes you can do a good job, and that's why you lose the election because you've worked things out and what you inherited. So as far as this issue is concerned, our demands were clear, which was the quickest opening of the referendum on both referendum issues, we said by September at the latest, that was some conclusion of our committee. Why? Because this is not a referendum on what they did to us, here's colleague Bulj talking about what was going on, this is a referendum on the future, this is a referendum on how it never happens to us again that two or three people willfully deny our fundamental human rights and freedoms, so this is a referendum on the future, and that's why it's necessary that in the fall or maybe in the perspective sometimes it wouldn't happen again the same or similar or similar story, so that's what it is about. Also, what Bacic said that the question was, were there two-thirds of the majority that the ruling had to go in that direction? Well, there's no political option that people wouldn't see dying, that I don't know what's going on in society and that takes responsibility for itself and that he doesn't want to support the measures that will save people's lives. Such I am convinced here in HS there is no, as much as I criticized I do not know my HDZ colleagues I do not think any of them would make any such decision and deliberately go to someone to do harm, also this all, all the political options here sitting in the assembly. So, we all know when such an extraordinary situation happens, so it's clear that we're all going to react, but here the question is whether this situation was so dangerous for the measures that we've been taking and whether the measures were responding to the dangers of the situation and whether because of the measures we've brought not only here in Croatia but also in Europe and the world because of the response to these measures in terms of support and everything that has been brought in, the printing of money in the European Central Bank in the United States, which is why we now have a price increase, we don't have this price rise because of Russian aggression, it's just coming to us now, so was that an adequate answer? Ours, our opinion is that it's not and it's all been exaggerated, and yet it's visible to you now that this Russian aggression has started, no one's talking about the epidemic anymore. Some of the jokes should have given Putin the Nobel Prize for this medicine, solved the crown in 24 hours, so no more talking at all, at all, about this topic, and now you've started talking about easing the measures, interestingly yesterday is announced by the mitigation of measures, the day before we discuss these signatures and possible referendums, so it was clear here it was political decisions, so it's clear that these measures, that the answer of the whole world, and I don't think that I blame this HDZ, so the world's response to this epidemic has been too much and too high. And as for our position on the constitutional court, he said, we have the right as advocates to threaten judges of the constitutional court, not in terms of physical threat, but in the sense that such constitutional judges will never support those who do not respect the Croatian Constitution or constitutional experts who, in 2014 when they wrote the constitution for Ivo Josipovic, claimed that a clarification of this epidemic or pandemic should be inserted in the article on exceptional circumstances, and now they argue differently because they hope that the HDZ may also push the constitutional court. So, we, we want to expose them, and we're gonna keep doing it. And our view of the epidemic was the same at first, and as my colleague Bulj said, we didn't vote to hand over power to headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102249	Replica Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102250	A fellow Grmoy, of course, resolves the referendum in the future that no such happens that some people decide on human rights and freedoms in the reduction. However, when I mentioned mayors and commissioners, I am clear. As mayor of Sinja, I did not agree to break the constitution, regardless of what the commercial majority here does to the two-thirds majority, but usually passed a law that is anti-constitutional and I will repeat it once more, Most, the Mosta Club did not vote for this headquarters in the previous assembly. You can check that out. What your troll is saying is there, you don't even know he's gone, I won't even mention him if I'm giving him a political and lying and misleading public that we voted and that only Ivan Pernar, and the Bridge didn't vote for it, that's a fact. And I didn't accuse my colleague, Klaric, but I said that he broke the constitution, and that's why the people didn't choose him, he didn't choose him to break through anyone who could go to the city administration, who couldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102251	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102252	Yes, but not the only one, so all the mayors and mayors in Croatia were carrying out a covid of certificates, even some who had announced that they would not implement it, so when the penalties were announced then, I think that Primosten and another place was, I don't know Chabar, was it like it wasn't going to be carried out, so they ended up implementing and the president's office was that they wouldn't implement it, in the end it was introduced, right? So it's true, my colleague Bulj, that you were the only one left in what you claimed from the beginning, but here I wouldn't particularly blame my colleague Klaric right now, because he didn't even claim he wouldn't, some claimed he wouldn't use it, so then they applied. So he had the same attitude from the beginning, and here he supported decisions that were both the Staff and therefore the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102253	Dear Marin Miletic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102254	My dear colleague Grumo, so do you think, and I said several times today in my performances, I'm a little tired, we've been here all day, that I don't like generalizing anyone. Life has taught me that when you generalize this, you get it over your head. But then Minister Berosch, I think I'll probably file criminal charges. So a man orders a vaccine, pays for it. The medicine, excuse the medicine 30,... American firm, 30 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's our money, it's the money of the Croats, the Croats, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and he ordered a drug that Americans say won't use anymore because it's none. And after that information, a man orders a cure. Well, if you don't know the same thing, you have a responsibility, and if you knew the masters! It's the same story that Pfizer told. So, if he knew immunity was equally protective, why would you force people with that vaccine to vaccinate?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102255	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102256	So regarding this case, I can't argue that there was an intention on the part of the minister and that he knew it, but what I think is certainly problematic is this question of this Kujundzic as well as these platforms are being vaccinated and this information is now coming out. There really is a basis for some kind of criminal responsibility. But certainly what you're saying shows that the health ministry acted unconsciously, that they made decisions that were harmful, that they ordered certain medicines for which there was no need. So, in that sense, it is certainly necessary to question the responsibility of the minister himself, but it seems to me that things are developing that Minister Beros is the former, and these three for whom we have referred the request, and Andrej Plenkovic must be replaced. That's where he got the MOST order for the three of us to call off. There's no help to the team.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102257	The next replica, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102258	Comrade Grmoi, these initiatives are both focused on the decision-making process, on procedures and on the bodies they make. You have in your debate touched the content of decisions. In that sense, I was much more focused at the beginning of 2020 when there were also those decisions on the ban on movement, on certificates, not covid but on these certificates of movement between the county. And then let's be honest, a lot of us didn't know what was waiting for us and we blew everybody cold. For example, in 2020, I felt that a decision restricting the movement between municipalities was too strict, unnecessary, and that was my argument with the situation in Brač. And then when the pandemic stopped throughout the country because of one fired, infected from a hospital in Split, we were the only ones left in prison. Then everyone asked to limit the movement between municipalities due to the number of infected. So I'd put an emphasis at this point on procedures, on clear rules and that you can't narrow down people without electoral legitimacy. to decide on human rights, and to this end, the content. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102259	I do not defend your colleague Bauk to your position, or even your position to support certain measures. But what I see from your discussions is that you and I both agree on this decision-making and procedure. And the fact that that article 17 has been bypassed The constitution and that some of the measures that were extremely difficult and limited human rights and freedoms were brought in an inadequate way. And here we can agree, of course, on this, on the very measures of relations with the epidemic here, and I think that in the Croatian public, it is clear to everyone. So, you think I should not know that MPs should invite people to vaccination, I believe that Croatian citizens are reasonable enough, responsible, that each of them will avoid any risk and possible benefits and on this basis make decisions. So I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102260	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marijan Pavliček. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is the debate of the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102261	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, thank you all for being finally responsible for being here with us all day. I've seen some since morning, some of them now, so I'll be clear. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated every Thursday should be vaccinated. Never once, I'm like Marin Miletić now telling you, maybe I'm tired, so I'm out of my mind now in the evening. I never told anyone, don't be vaccinated, don't be vaccinated. Never anyone. It's not my place to tell anyone you want to vaccinate, you won't be vaccinated. It's mine to call for informed consent, to explain everything to people, and then whoever feels threatened, who's old, powerless, who has some disease, who feels threatened to be vaccinated. And it's not my place to share medical advice, but it's mine to warn. My people, so who did, so the citizens were inoculating with Pfizer, and now here's what I asked the lawyer for, because I'm going to press charges. It says this: Marines are important that three things have been silenced: that natural immunity is equally effective, and according to documents, the difference between vaccinated and unvaccinated is more effective. He kept his mouth shut that the difference in transmission of the virus itself between vaccinated and unvaccinated is almost non-existent. Pfizer silenced that they were vaccinated after the second and third doses of weaker immunity and thus more prone to re-infection. And that's why they're gonna be so fat in America. What about us? What about us citizens of the Republic of Croatia? You're suing everyone, me. You sue everyone where your fundamental rights have been kidnapped, where someone has violated your health, sue and remove them from your underpants. And especially those who knew, if they knew. I didn't say they knew as much as my colleague Grumoja said, but if they knew and you kept quiet, so you know that when we know that, is it such a crime or that something, you're silent so you're, you're guilty, man, go report it. If you knew and now this Pfizer who paid $2.3 billion, if the people he paid a court sentence for cheating, lying, cheating and now this big farm we're working with and who, through interesting lobbies, forced Croatian citizens to split, I'm talking about Pfizer very... And now it turns out that they knew who got over it, that I was talking about who got over it, that they weren't supposed to be vaccinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, man. I'm going to tell you, I'm two years ago somewhere now that you're not taking me exactly, at the beginning of what got Covid and I was lucky that it was really asymptomatic, I was acting like a lunatic when my clinics got me, I was drinking out of their glasses with my daughters, I just wanted to get to confirm crazy, I couldn't win at all. We do not reduce all people who have died as is not said about 15,000 citizens who die annually from the consequences of smoking, as many deaths have not been said about the whole system and the health process. We know the same thing, it's the truth of my people. So all I care about is the truth, just the truth. And whoever in any way feels threatened he knows what to do, he goes to his doctor, talks to him, the doctor tells him to do it, and the man does it. It's kind of a healthy logic. And if someone were to make me, to be driven by someone who I was sick 15 years ago, doesn't know what I look like 15 years ago who I train every day like a horse, to watch what I eat and what I drink, and that someone's pushing me to work if you don't vaccinate, just leave me alone, man. Someone makes me, my kids, make someone say you have to, no matter how I have to, I don't have a problem with it. Do you understand me, we spoke publicly, especially hospitals, nursing homes, where it's threatened, it's no problem so you have to be careful, but man, don't make me have to do something, people, so that's all, so common sense tells me that. And now we see that there are some games. And that's what we fight for. And I don't care if my left, part of my left, isn't all, Arsen, is just going to be hiding in the basements, so they've been attacking us and insulting us, you know, insulting us. Some, some individuals, some of them deliberately say some of the ruling ones and they shoot. Be wise to someone who is small today will be great tomorrow and will ask us, we will be asked this, I am neither boastful nor arrogant, will be asked MOST at midnight and a minute after the election you will call perhaps our current president, perhaps some new people, you will call, that you should see when the elections are in MOST, you will call, and people of reason you know, be wiser all, and the Croatian people have the right to choose, have the right to freedom and have the right to a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102262	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the violation of the Rules of Procedure Tomislav Klaric, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102263	Dear Vice President, the distinguished colleague of Rule 238, so he manipulates the data and calls us MPs who we have in some way persuaded or urged people to vaccinate. I personally have two names: Zvonko Krusic, Anto Tommetić, my first neighbors with whom I have spent my entire life. They died the same day of Covid. My whole family, the whole street was infected by the only me I ever received wasn't. Passes at the time of the pass, not one infected, nor one died in the area of the city of Bakar. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102264	You used this warning as a replica. Replica Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102265	I think of course that what counterpart Klaric is through now, said no one has denied Covid nor who has spoken but the headquarters itself has denied him and the decisions and measures of counterpart Klaric and that is what Miletic's colleague said. I'd say here for a little while, my colleague Miletic, I wasn't vaccinated, I wasn't over it, I was amongst people, I don't know why some of them got sick had more serious consequences, there were colleagues of our own who were in the hospital, no one slowed it down. But if we were to call for vaccination, I was being tested, and I didn't have that problem, I kept testing myself and before, always because of that, I mean, but we're inviting someone to get vaccinated, so who are we to call. So here's when counterpart Zekanovic called for vaccination 30% was a minor vaccination on the first day. And later, I won't even talk. When we fell down we collected these signatures, we collected signatures for the referendum at the time, he's your troll, it's such people, anti-nationals, they impose attitudes, they make up stories that we voted for the headquarters which is a lie, you can check it out now find that point What was... [[Intruder: Time.]] so that [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] imposing and violating human beings [[Intruder: Time.]] The real thing is the worst thing that could have happened in this whole thing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102266	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102267	How about an answer? If you remember well, and I know you remember one of your colleagues well and here when the minister was sitting, I once defended him if you remember, when I estimated that the level of public communication had crossed over to him. I also told the minister that the beginning of the pandemic and I completely understand it, some decisions at the beginning when you don't know, you understand, so in any direction at all something new has happened, and I understand that then we don't know what we're going to do, and here I told the Prime Minister that I thanked him for not succumbing to the scarecrows. That's what I was saying. So thank you for not succumbing to the scarecrows. So, we're not, at least we're here I think we're, we're really trying to be reasonable that they're calling on lockdown while it's... from Stanford shouting no lockdown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, but people have to be free to decide whether or not they want to take the pin, and that's the whole point of it all, you can't make anyone do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102268	The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102269	I'm falling into a paradox, and it's usually against politicians to take something for themselves, and they don't want it for the people. This is actually with the vaccine for the first time that the politicians who were vaccinated invited the people to be vaccinated. So, quite the opposite of all the stereotypes of boredom. And in that sense, I feel that it would be irresponsible if you took the vaccine again over the line they resented most of those who were against vaccination, and then told the people don't inject or feel free to decide. I was vaccinated because I thought it was the right thing to do. It is worth it and vice versa, it would be quite certainly unconvincing that you or someone who has not been vaccinated invites citizens to be vaccinated, it is equally inconclusive in this country for a disease called covid-19 is not mandatory vaccination, so along with many objections the headquarters and the government in the way of managing the crisis is me, it's... The fact that they have failed to persuade a greater percentage of citizens to vaccinate unlike the rest of Europe. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102270	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102271	Thank you very much. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. 238 because of the fact that it wasn't, said it wasn't forbidden, it was worse, it couldn't come to local self-government, you couldn't come anywhere, you couldn't come anywhere without a covid certificate, without a covid certificate, that's a fact. So part of human rights and freedoms have been abolished, and none of us deny covid as a disease or deny it, but we're just talking about the right choice, we're talking about the right choice in the Bridge. I haven't been vaccinated, I haven't gotten over it, but I haven't told anyone or vaccinated or vaccinated, it's every citizen's right. That's the difference between you and the scarecrow that you've accepted and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102272	This is the third warning, and then you lose your right to debate by the end of the night. ... Third warning... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Third warning, you lose your right, no more injuries, it's over. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You have no discussion until the end. [[No Miro, it's over, it's over.]] Here's a distinguished representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102273	So wait till the end, why did you throw me out for one violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102274	Here you go, elves. You have no right to argue anymore. ... [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102275	So, I'd like to hear here in HS mostly from people and headquarters that more calls for sports and recreation if we know that the threat of another factor is therefore a factor of covid's loss, so we have people who, let's not mind us, do not bear witness to the example of their lives, nor to walk, let alone to deal with recreation, and then they come to us and they're waiting for us and they're calling us, so let's first talk about healthy life, less alcohol, less food, less I mean moderation in food and drink, recreation, sport, there are examples, there are colleagues of Klaric examples here, there are athletes in all parties, I don't know here and a colleague of many. So what you'd like to say is that there are some other things that we should do here in the whole pandemic story, which is that you don't go to lockdown anymore and encourage people to live healthy and to engage in sports and recreation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102276	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac. You have another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102277	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Miletic, here I am only going to do the truth that you are calling upon in your discussions to warn you that it is not exactly what you said that someone forced the vaccination. There was no need for vaccination and no one forced anyone, there was, there was the possibility of a choice for those who had not been vaccinated. So the truth works for those who listen to us, too, I had to say this. I believe that you're under an emotional charge in your debate even though you know you've ignored it, so you put it that way and I believe it wasn't intentional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102278	I apologize to my colleague Jelkovac, it is good that you said so there was no mandatory vaccination in Croatia. What I, which I noticed was my students from medical school what when she was a PCR story means their dean came in and he asked for a week's PCR test and they told me, Marine, so my dad does, my dad has five or six thousand kunas, we don't have two thousand kunas per month for tests. And even though thousands are the same, you know I'm a patriot and a Croat, it's the same for you, we can talk about linguistics later, I'm also a chamari. [[Clip intrusion: Thousands]] So, and now watch out, so colleagues, so, what is it but in a perfidious way you make this student who didn't have the money to split, and so they told me, so here's the thing, I just needed to explain, I agree, so on the legal level that she didn't, but on this more perfident one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102279	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to take a brief look at this proposal for a decision regarding the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" and "Enough with the Stogerocracy". Let's just remember the context of the decision-making proposal, more precisely the overall framework and the situation that has even preceded it. In fact, there is often much to be seen, the events are seen even unfortunately beyond the context and beyond the sense and lose at all, and all of this loses its significance because we should say the final headquarters is not for the sake of headquarters but for the sake of need. If I didn't go into the history of covida-19 because we all knew it, I would only remind myself of how the pandemic spread so quickly around the world, and the methods of gathering information about infection and mortality differed from country to country. The medical profession was, she was only able to give a rough assessment of mortality. It was accessible to collect statistical data, exchange data of successful measures, conducted research, etc. It was to be found, to find a safe and adequate method, to stand up to this monster while quality and reliable data on the epidemic itself were very slow to determine. After the World Health Organization raised global risk on February 25, 2020, which, of course, was followed by the EU only then began to take more concrete protection measures. The World Health Organization warned that it took 67 days for the virus to infect the first 100,000 people while 11 days for the other 100,000 people, while for the third 100,000 people it only took four days. The conclusion was that the virus was spreading too quickly and that sharp measures had to be imposed even earlier. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this was just a short frame or a narrow frame in which the whole world was moving. The rapid reaction of our headquarters and adapting to the current situation and the appropriate measures through direct instructions and communication to the population resulted in Croatia having managed relatively successfully to defend itself in this first one, we can say the most difficult and unknown wave and globally opposed these terrible diseases. Much better than many other Western countries that have recorded a multiple greater fatality, for example. Let's take both Holland and Spain at that time. We must, however, stress that the measures Croatia has implemented have not been as strict as in other countries. On the contrary, at least 18 countries with more than 300 million inhabitants introduced a curfew and banned the movement from evening to morning. Let's just remember March 25, 2020. more than a third of the world's population, estimated by the UN to be 7.8 billion people, is invited to stay at home, i.e. They had a movement ban. That's exactly what I've been looking into. We all know the consequences of the pandemic on the economy and on the area of education, culture, but also on the political creation of various theories and various conspiracies and the search for the guilty and sources of the pandemic itself. Tourism traffic was reduced almost to a minimum within a very short period of time, although it was one of the most difficult tourist years in Croatia globally, but the decline was much lower than expected at the beginning of Croatia itself, just because adequate and very thoughtful measures of our headquarters were taken in time in synergy with other state institutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my goal was to show and point out the need for the profession to decide where it is needed, and therefore there are experts for each area for which they are educated, educated, acting naturally, we must give them an opportunity and a place for the common good and decide for the common good of all of us. The national headquarters based on available scientific knowledge available at a certain point carried out measures that it considered to be least and truly restrictive, while at the same time equally effective in protecting public health from coronaryvirus by informing the timely public. He made his decisions on the basis of regulations and in context [[Santer Invader: Time.]] globally, I repeat globally by the World Health Organization [[Santer Invader: Time.]] declared pandemic. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102281	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102282	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Busic. Now, in this perhaps last part of the debate we heard, I would say about the strictness of the measures and that the problem was essentially related to some of the strict measures that were being taken in the first lockdown, but if we remember other than the successful balancing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preserving the health and safety of citizens, maintaining the economy, the economy and ultimately the tourist season, the Republic of Croatia was 25th of the 27 EU countries by mild measures, or we were very liberal. You're here because of work and traveling around the world and last week you were in South America, yesterday we saw children and babies still closing in isolation in Shanghai, so I don't think there's a few things standing around.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102283	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102284	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar. Yeah, uh... I wish we could speak objectively, here's what we're talking about against the covid certificate, wherever you go you need a covid certificate really and nowhere you can go. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Croatia is not the only one for the good god who introduced the covid certificate. I really can't believe what I hear sometimes. Besides, as far as here's three times I've been vaccinated, here's only on this trip I've had to test four times, I'm not saying it here at all what things I see, four times being tested despite having a covid certificate, it's so many colors in all places. And if I were to tell you that in some buildings, here are the Council of Europe you couldn't go in without testing the building, and three times I was vaccinated, I was tested for entering France and entering the Council of Europe into the building itself, and I had to test myself again. So I'm asking you, I'm really asking you to understand how restrictive it was and how difficult it was to travel, and then you can't. on a plane so you don't get tested. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102285	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102286	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. Here you have described quite nicely, in fact, I would say a hodogram of the course of the pandemic, i.e. the epidemic and the rapid one that started spreading it, and I think that this is exactly the best indicator and proof that what the Civil Protection System Act itself says among other things is the principle of operational action, and therefore the best answer to those who say that HS should or should have decided on security measures. This only shows that HS would have acted as a two-thirds majority in such situations as a prompt and urgent action as it should and as it finally worked at headquarters. The second thing you mentioned was the curfew, so I repeat once again, the German Constitutional Court found that those measures that were adopted under their law on protection against infection, which was brought in their parliament with the ordinary majority that it had fulfilled that measure of suitability or that it went with it to protect the health of life and people. So we're talking about a curfew, which must be a much stricter measure than the ones we had here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102287	Thank you very much, dear fellow Habiban. I absolutely here thank you, you've done a lot of additions, I've really worked really hard, so I've been doing some research and I've been reading various texts both sides and ours and in Croatia, and I've read the most foreign ones, and we've really had very favourable conditions, if you want to live, this hasn't been easy for anyone these two and a half years. But really if we, I can't believe that someone believes that if we bring in a two-thirds majority I don't know what would happen to us, where we would be, how many would be dead because here today forgive me but I will take my freedom. Here's what today's debate has shown what we would be if we were to decide by a two-thirds majority. Here, so thank you very much for this. And I would really like us to have a bit more relaxed, a little less passionless than more at one rational level to talk about how we really and well went in Croatia, how and how it was done in other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102288	The following are closed debates. The first was registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102289	Thank you. Well, it wouldn't be bad at all, what we'd have is a decision-making debate. We'd have a debate at four, five o'clock, we'd gather and vote on Friday. If it was an urgent vote right now, here would these come, your majority stable and our opposition would come too and most would vote for the proposal. Someone would vote against it and that's it. The Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Constitutional Court should not, as a rule, apply the German Constitution, so that the German Constitutional Court has decided something about the German Government's decision on this debate does not have much to do with it. It may be our direction to change the Constitution eventually, but then many other things could define differently. This debate, so I will repeat it as a preparation for possible future situations that will result in restrictions on human rights and health. And in that sense, it is good that this issue has been raised, even through a referendum initiative. Out of respect and respect for the citizens who signed the first initiative and shared the opinion of those who believe that the change in Article 17 is in fact not essential but only highlights but also with this formulation is covered by the pandemic. I don't see the need to further incodify the Constitutional Court with that question, but if the Constitutional Court's explanation were to be precisely on the trail of what I'm saying about. Since they're already working for one question, I can do another overtime. As far as the second question is concerned, we have certain constitutional and legal dilemmas, but not to that extent that the Priors would argue that the issue is unconstitutional, but it is good to question it by the Constitutional Court when we have already changed the practice of sending to the Constitutional Court only what we really think is unconstitutional and in the light of the legal reasoning we are arguing. In this regard, I believe that the second question, the decision, the second proposal of the Constitution Committee, will be given to more than two-thirds of the majority. I think the first question will remain at parliamentary majority level perhaps with another two MPs more but I doubt it. This debate also showed that in 2020 we remembered as one period in fact when, if I may say so throughout that period from March until May, there were fewer infections in total than in the autumn of 2021. So that's the extent of what my colleague Busic was saying about the number of days. So that most dramatic part of us, the most uncertain one, actually, had far less consequences in the number of infected than one day in the fall of 2021. At that time there were more than 2,000 infected, never more than 100, and we had days of 3, 4000. And it was that the virus was something more familiar to us, so that we accepted those large numbers more easily. It's just that when you look at the proportionality of the measures shut down the de facto whole economy for 30 infected a day, and then in a year and a half with 4,000 almost nothing, we have one confirmation people were vaccinated, who of course vaccinated, the infection slowed down, the consequences were less than at first and because of that, but the same large number of people died in the end. Now she defines with covid or by covid. I think that's the question now. I can also agree that we had some milder measures, but I did not see the need for stricter measures. There have also been criticism on our part of some of the measures that some of them are too strict, some that they are too mild, some that they are untimely and some that they are premature. But it was done, and there was commendation for some measures. But it was a concrete criticism of concrete treatment rather than systematic demeaning of measures as such. So that was what we think it can do better, it's something that a parliamentary debate or political action should do. Finally, this opportunity is also good for both the authorities and the opposition that the political sign is, therefore, to place a clear limit on action, when it is required to act in accordance with Article 17 and when Article 16. So, I couldn't accept it, I believe it wouldn't even occur to you, for example, to extend our mandate to the Croatian Parliament and postpone the elections for health protection. And it's possible, because people gather in polling stations. We have an extraordinary election in Orahovica, a local delay if you remember 2020, and some in the island seem the same. So that's what happened. That's why it's good to have that line set, so that for the next pandemic or for the next cycle of the pandemic, we no longer have this kind of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102290	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102291	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, power comes out of the people and belongs to the people and fucks me for Germany, fucks for Brussels, fucks for any other country. You have legitimacy. I'm telling you HDZ again. So, with your partners. I don't question that at all. I don't have any problem with that. What I would have if it were different is my problem, but you have legitimacy. The government in Croatia belongs to the people and stems from the people. There's a woman out there in Brussels winking at 35 billion pounds of the vaccine that's over there. Okay. And we're part of Europe, I believe that's what we belong to, I believe our place is there, I don't have a problem with that either. So you and the Swedish models and some other models that were much more open, and then when the people who got hurt got together, we're here. So don't give me any of those examples that don't exactly fit the real scene. What is important is to thank the Croatian citizens, people here in 21 and 44 all day long we are in debates, thank all of them once again the ruling and Bauku from the opposition who are here in the Croatian Parliament. If it wasn't for the Croatian citizens who recognized it, we wouldn't have collected the signatures. And I'll tell you, you know it well, you don't have to admit it to me, in your heart, so if we were collecting signatures now we'd collect 700,000 signatures. So, in the middle of the winter in the rain and in the snow, we collected it when almost 400 were checked, if we were collecting it now, we would have raised 700,000 and you know it. And again you see this, I will tell you now as Marin Miletic, you are doing what you do to the Constitutional Court because you know what a referendum would be and you know how many people would go out on that referendum. And let's learn something from all that, so lockdown never again, running away from it, destroyed generations of athletes, generations of students, education fell to the lowest level, athletes, recreationals, you know that deep down, Professor. Ioannidis from Stanford, so if it weren't some dealings with Wange or the antiwax, I don't know what we call people, so we're putting their labels on. Let's get away from lockdown, don't ever, please, you've been ruling for two years, don't fall for the scarecrows that feel the safest in the basements. So everything has to be open. Take care of athletes and recreationals, encourage that, help people deal with sports, be healthy. Call on people also to be active and eventually to strengthen their immunity by autumn and to show up 1/1 this will cut out a new, new wave. There's gonna be a new wave if someone's gonna be more ready, someone a little less, but that's it. So, thank you to all who have helped in any way, Caroline Vidovic Kristo, good and honest now that the catharsis has been experienced by the sovereigns and greetings of all people who, in any way, probably forgot someone, have made their contribution that the citizens have gone out in the middle of winter, have signed and have requested a referendum. I personally like Miletic, I don't have to agree, but you're doing the legal thing again, here's a fellow lawyer, is what's possible. And I'm telling you okay, it's just my job to make sure that part of the citizens of course don't follow all of you if it's part of it, that they never forget it. And as long as I have breath, I'll whine and speak to them, remember, remember, remember, remember, remember, be wise, be not like goldfish. And then when the time comes, we'll go out to the game, I'm a athlete, we'll sport-breathing, sport-breathing means please, if anyone is transferring me under so-called signs and we'll go out to the citizens and the citizens say here again HDZ with their partners you're you and I'll give you my hand and congratulate or I don't know anyone else. But until then, I won't stop, so from day to day, I'm gonna go around the field, and I'm gonna work, and I'm gonna tell people what I know to be true. And once again, thank all the citizens who have helped us in any way in this and do not abuse the spirit, this is the victory of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we will try to make sure that no World Health Organization, any of these jokes that come in August that have a meeting do not take power over the Croatian people because the government belongs here to the Croatian Assembly and to the rulings, so you have this legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102292	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102293	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we at HDZ do not feel that it is quite serious and important for the citizens and citizens of this country, and we believe that it is the Constitutional Court that needs to resolve this legal issue first and foremost, the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ will support the proposal as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u102294	We're done talking about this. We continue tomorrow at 9:30 Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 267. Good night, everybody. Session interrupted at 21.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u82938	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs, we will continue our work. Before we take a stand, I'd like to inform you that it is the basis of Article 125. Rules of Procedure of the 10th session included a point – Proposal to launch a trust issue with Boris Milosevic, Deputy Prime Minister Josip Aladrovic, Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. The applicants are 31 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Now let's get to the point of view. The first is the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u82960	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Is there in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian politics which Buratino, which Pinocchio. I'm afraid so. Today, people have always been prone to lies, and it is no good when a small child lies, nor is a adolescent lie that is a common phenomenon. But when politicians lie, then it leaves the consequences of a wider community, of the people, to the state. And that's not good. Some will even convince themselves at some point and represent that falsehood in a way that is true. And it's a minor crime scene. So some will try to introduce it here, and the euro will also introduce the euro, although I am justifiably saying that the euro is not good for the Croatian state. Some will represent the thesis against LNG even though today we have a situation that we need this LNG to overcome this economic crisis. Some will represent the wrong view regarding the INA arbitration, so it will damage the state by several hundred million kunas or euros, and will continue to claim they are right. Sometimes a lie will be a banal one, but it will show what kind of people it is, it will show that it's Pinocchio, that it's a Buratine, that it's about a man who came out of Papa Carla's kitchen and that no matter how much we pretend something can be good, it'll come out bad. The lie is not only symptomatic of Croatia, but it appears elsewhere in the world. Today we have many lies in Ukraine, in the war in Ukraine. Today, the official Russian policy is very much lying about one of the worst massacres in Buca. The massacre in Butca, which took place a few weeks ago, unfortunately resulted in more than three hundred people being killed mostly by civilians. Today's official Russian policy says it's not about the massacre, it's about the fake news of Ukraine. They can't be right both, they can't be right and those who say they slaughtered those people killed the Ukrainians and those who claim to have been killed by Russian mercenaries. Only one is right. In this case, it's Ukraine. When two people have different weights, they can't both, or two, have a right. Only one can be right. And that is very important that the Croatian public must understand that, unfortunately, politicians lie, not only in Croatia, lie and elsewhere in the world. Here, when I mentioned Ukraine, I must point out another acute problem, and that is the problem of Mariupoli. Mariupolus is a city that today is under very strong attacks by the Russian army. And just yesterday, nearly 300 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered to the Russian army in Mariupola. The last contingent of prisoners, or dedicated soldiers, was burned by flamethrowers. This way I call on the Croatian public to share videos and these people trapped by the Russian army, to try in any way to save the lives of Ukrainian soldiers who are currently worth absolutely nothing. So maybe it's the only way we can stop the executioners who've done it many times in Mariupola from doing it again. We in Croatia know best what happened in Vukovar. Today, Mariupoli is the second Vukovar. I'll even dare say the Greater Vukovar, because when it's over, the slaughter of the victims will, unfortunately, be much, much more. No matter how many of you are convinced by the increased intonation from this pay phone to tell the truth, know that it's Pinocchio, that it's Buratine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83019	Let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on. Let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83020	Speaker subsequently turned on./... How much time did I lose? So talk about Ukraine or BiH. Ukraine is the problem of the planet, the problem of the era, but we and we cannot influence it at all, but very important things happen in BiH. These are historical events that Croatia can seriously influence and I think it is worth talking about especially because Croatian politics have seen lately and behaviour, the treatment of BiH and Croats in BiH is much better but we are still 2 steps late, for 2 octaves we are low. I will begin with a series of missed attempts to agree on amendments to the election law by representatives of the Croatian and Bosniak people in BiH. No way, it's not going through. A new recent meeting has been announced in Brussels. It can only pass if Croatia's policy significantly changes the way it works and tactics of this political struggle because there is no way that Bosniaks would accept amendments to the electoral law and thus give Croatians equality. Better and more precisely, give back to the Croats the equality that we Croatians had with the original Dayton until the hooligans of the international community who were isolated from the Bosniak element took fundamental rights according to Dayton, hence the constitutionality and ability to choose our legitimate, legitimately legitimate representatives. What do you need now? So, this serious proposal needs to change the tactics completely so that the Bosniaks remain to be negotiated, so that we do not come to the international community's dispensation. However, we are aware of these negotiations that we will not do anything like the Bosniaks want nothing done, and we will be aware that nothing will be done, but we will focus all energy on the international community because its interest in BiH is strengthened at this point, its power is great and its power influences Bosniak politics and Bosniaks. On the other hand, we should address the international community for the fact that the international community is solely responsible for what is happening in BiH, which is a complete political collapse, a complete collapse of the administration of state administration, etc. I have said two, three times about the three Serb variants for this parliamentary speaker, now I will repeat it because in addition to serious negotiations with the international community, I propose that Croatian politics speak very seriously with Bosnian Serbs. I have said three times here that there are three Serbian variants, the Croatian Serbs they have no weight for us, we will respect them and they will get everything, not as much as the Croatian government gives them. There are Serbian Serbs that also mean nothing to us politically because after the first war we were addicted to them, I mean World War I, World War II, but at this point we are members of the EU, we are members of NATO, so the position is better than theirs. The only Serbs who should be of exceptional interest to Croatian politics are Bosnian Serbs because they are simply from the same enemy, I openly say, from the same enemy of the great unitarism as we are. I didn't happen to mention Milorad Dodik, I didn't accidentally apostrophe some Croatian politicians, so primarily the president of the state who went one step further. What he said about Dodik, the Sarajevo charter and the position of Croats in BiH, although Zoran Milanovic is not something pious, but who also spoke of the Sarajevo charter and Dodik because he said nicely, he easily agreed with Dodik not on the division of BiH but on the organisation of life in BiH. Mr. President of the Assembly and you and the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister must take matters into your own hands. I also said a year ago here describing a picture of Dayton, ma in Dayton are at the heart of things called Slobodan Milosevic, Franjo Tudjman and Ali Izetbegovic that the people of the former Yugoslavia are the three most numerous peoples of the central Yugoslav area called BiH, which is just as it is called, which no country has, which has almost never been through history, but this is the main mantra to Bosniaks after it is proved that in this BiH cannot live, they say, and this is historical. What history she's been through, I'll say it in five minutes tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83079	Thanks, buddy. Let's move on, as 5th, a respected colleague, Pavliček, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83080	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. According to the latest census, there are 3,88 million of us. However, despite this dramatic decline in the last 10 and 30 years in Croatia, we still have 555 JLS, and we are at the very top of the EU compared to the number of inhabitants and to the surface of the country. Croatia today has 428 municipalities and 127 cities. Each municipality has its own head or chief, each municipality must have a minimum of one municipal director, a large part of the municipality must have a agricultural director, each municipality has at least one administrative secretary or secretary, each municipality has a municipal council of 7, 9, 11 or 13 members, which means that we have about 4 thousand different municipal council members. And what's the worst part of these municipalities is economically unsustainable. In fact, a large part of the municipalities depend primarily on grants from the state budget, i.e. on the means of balancing, and their own original budget is multiplely lower than what they receive from the state. So you today when you ask one doctor of science from the Faculty of Mathematics to list all municipalities in the Republic of Croatia no one can do it, and it's not a country that has a surface of 500 thousand km2 but of only 56 thousand squares, and it just shows that this system is unsustainable to us. In all these municipalities, local sheriffs who rule for 20 or more years often come into existence and do not even have candidates in the elections. When compared to neighbouring countries, let's say one Hungary that has twice the population of Croatia is 173, in one Serbia where there are 50% more inhabitants than in Croatia, the number of municipalities is 145, in one BiH which is almost identical geographically as Croatia's number of municipalities is 142, only Croatia's predecessors with as many as 555 municipalities and cities. And these days the public came up with a document that the government is working through an operational recovery plan and resilience to provide additional funding to allow municipalities to join both functionally and truly, but what is important is voluntary merger. And it's predicted, at least according to what we could read from the media, that it would be 3. In a row 100 million kunas are provided for those municipalities that really want to be functional or really connected to the municipal infrastructure. And now I'm asking you, and who's going to accept it, which community chief will voluntarily shut down his seat and lose his chair because he and the municipal council will decide on it, not the residents of that community. This isn't a bad idea, but she's not going to be able to get away with it. Croatia should get a new territorial structure that should be voted here in HS. Only on this basis and on the basis of a reduction in the number of financially unsustainable municipalities Croatia can move forward, there must be precise criteria, whether it is the number of inhabitants, whether it is economic sustainability, whether it is a historic one, but some parameters must be known. Today you have municipalities that are not, whose settlements are not connected by road, but go through other municipalities to reach their municipalities. So you have, say, municipalities that have less than a thousand inhabitants, so I'll list just some, a large part of you probably haven't even heard of these municipalities, nor have I, Zrinski Topolovac 759 residents, Severin 713, Ship Moravice 667, Saborsko 510, Ribnik 370, Kijevo 280, Lanisce 270 and recordr Cviljana 171 residents, but he has a chief, the municipality has a council, he has a municipal director, he has a head of a single management department, now you tell me is that sustainable? It is simply not, I should be in urgent reorganisation, especially now that we are in a financial crisis should introduce order into administrative division of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83223	The 10th debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will be held by a respected colleague, Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83224	Mr. Jandrokovic, fellow MPs and MPs. While Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic thinks he will implement a reconstruction of his government that has already been reconstructed several times now, the new Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property is planning to reconstruct the facts. Namely, he must think of how he will answer my parliamentary questions, and that the answers do not constitute evidence that the days given have been conditioned for some new criminal incriminations against those ministers we are now waiting for to be part of the announced reconstruction, such as Defence Minister Marija Banozic, who was the minister of the restoring ministry during a certain period. On 27 January, I asked a parliamentary question in which I was briefly asking for answers to whether a decision was taken to trust real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia on the management of the State Real Estate Commercial Company if such a decision was taken I request that I be provided with a copy of the same. Then I ask for an indication of the list of all available properties from 2013-2018. making use of officials on the basis of the then applicable Regulation. I am looking for an indication of which officials are under this Regulation and are assigned real estate for use, and I am also asking for an indication of whether an annual management plan for the state property for 2019 has been adopted. I asked for an indication and whether the government had adopted a new regulation after the entry into force of the new law and laid down new criteria, also asking for a table picture of all properties in the City of Zagreb in state ownership and information on who has been in the lease or rental since 2015. And on and on. The answers to these questions should show whether Minister Banozic has shot himself and whether a crime of abuse of position and authority has taken place in the conduct of the state property minister. To clarify immediately, I do not insinuate here that the DORH on the application of Maja Djerek or on the basis of publicly available data in the investigation of disputed circumstances could have acted much faster. I am not insinuating that DORH is in some cases more up-to-date than when it comes to investigating possible criminal responsibilities of senior HDZ members. I'm talking about something else here, I'm talking about the president of HS sitting behind me right now, not having the authority he should have based on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of HS, and that's one of the reasons why Croatia is not full of the rights and rights of functional democracy. Namely, art. The 142nd Rules of Procedure are prescribed to give an answer to the parliamentary question within 30 days of the date on which it was asked was delivered to the government or to a single member of the government. If the government cannot respond within that time limit, it is obliged to clarify for what reasons. A.k.a. The 144 Rules of Procedure stipulates that if a government or a member of the government does not respond within the prescribed time limit, then the president invites them to deliver the reply within the time limit that he tells them to. As I have already mentioned, I asked and addressed on January 27th, 14th of this year, the president of HS urged the government to submit answers to my parliamentary questions within eight days. I think the entire Croatian public knows that, for example, the time prescribed for one replica lasts for one minute, 60 seconds, and I have been interrupted countless times in order to finish thinking just because I overstepped this 60-second deadline by five or six, but when the government does not provide answers to the questions asked, when the government does not act by order and instructs the president of HS and does not provide answers within eight days of then nothing. So much for the state of double standards and double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83225	My colleague Oreskovic, since you called me, should have also made it clear that the rules of procedure clearly state what is the sanctions when you exceed those minutes or two, and in case the government does not respond, there is no sanction according to the Rules of Procedure of the HS, so that would be complete information, and then perhaps I would have looked differently at what you were saying. But we've learned from you that what doesn't suit you is silent but very easy and easy to accuse others, that's your characteristic. We are now going to the 9th debate on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club of counterpart Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83281	Dear President, dear colleagues. On the night of November 21st 2017, shortly before 21 hours at the border between Croatia and Serbia, a freight train killed a six-year-old girl, Medina Hussiny, after being illegally expelled from the Republic of Croatia, who refused to accept her asylum application. 4 years and 4 months later, 4 April 2022. The European Court of Human Rights has adopted a final right to conclude that in the event of the death of Medina, the Republic of Croatia has violated a series of provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights including the right to life, including the right to an effective investigation, the right not to be unlawfully expelled from the country, etc. At least the legal agony passed through the Husini family was formally completed. From this pay phone, we appealed to the government not to appeal to the first-degree ruling of the European Court of Human Rights and, at least, to stop with years of experience against Madina's family. They didn't listen to us, now it's over, justice is slow but reaching when it comes from European courts. Today we actually want to talk about responsibility for the final result of this verdict, which is behind the words of the Republic of Croatia. It is known that the European Court of Human Rights, unlike, for example, the International Criminal Court, directs its own words towards the entire Republic, not to the responsible individuals. However, today it is important to say that responsibility for the crimes committed against Madina and her family cannot fall on the back of the entire Republic, for this verdict is certainly not directed against all those who have dedicatedly helped the family to prove the planned, systematic and organised cover-up of crime. The Republic that was finally convicted in Strasbourg is not all those activists who assisted the families, who were invited by the same Republic to an informative conversation. Neither does lawyer Jelavic Unbeard's lawyer, whom the police were trying to mount a false indictment for falsifying documents. The Croatian defender Dragan Umicevic, who despite the European Court's ruling to help Madina's family, does not make her a Croatian defender Dragan Umicevic, sentenced to a disgraceful fine of 60,000 kuna. That condemned republic does not belong to all those citizens and citizens who within 24 hours collected those 60,000 kunas and paid them into the state budget. The convicted Republic doesn't belong to a former attorney general who, regardless of political pressures, insisted on investigating this case. It doesn't belong to three judges of the Constitutional Court who disagreed with most of their colleagues, that in the event of the death of Madonna, there is no violation of human rights. It does not belong to journalists or journalists who have not allowed this crime to fall into oblivion. She doesn't belong to those cops and cops she has and who don't agree to the abuse of migrants and refugees at our borders. Today it is very well known who makes the Republic that was convicted in Strasbourg, and we must say those names out loud in order not to transfer collective responsibility and guilt to all of us. Human Rights Associations have already recognised Minister Davor Bozinovic, who has managed the MUP system all these years. The verdict, except for Davor Bozinovic, is also directed towards chief police director Nikola Milin. It is directed towards the Head of Borders and Assistant Director-General Zoran Njeven. It is directed towards State Secretary Teresa Gras, involved in pressures on human rights defenders, is involved in blocking independence and independent international investigations. This is a verdict against all those who in the police were erasing and covering up surveillance cameras against members of the judicial authorities who did not have the courage to investigate or reject in domestic courts the attempts of Madina's family to find justice. In the next six months, the Republic of Croatia must implement the verdict, investigate and prosecute those responsible for this human tragedy and for this national disgrace. But it is clear that this republic, while the HDZ government is not up to the task. We no longer expect anything from Prime Minister Plenkovic, expect no resignations, no shifts, no reconstructions. From now on, since all this together doesn't make sense anymore, we're just patiently waiting for an opposition point to come to the agenda in accordance with the parliamentary procedure. The verdict regarding little Madonna is yet another proof of time for early elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83372	Let's move on. Now it's the club of representatives of MOST and respected colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83373	Price diversification, inflation, an uncontrollable market leads to growing poverty, job loss, uncertainty, and this is currently a key topic in the Republic of Croatia. A few days ago, I received word from a water company, the Cetin region water pipeline, that they had spent several public procurements for the purchase of electricity because without electricity, the entire Cetin region could not be powered, and of course not the largest part of Split and of course Split-Dalmatia County, mostly now in the tourist season and I am surprised by all these repeated competitions. Last year, 2 million and 300,000 kunas were electricity to reach households and economic operators. Do you know how much she showed public procurement where HEP appeared as the one to deliver energy, do you know at 2 and 300 last year what it was like this 30th March when the offer opened? 10 million and 400. That's 400%, 500%, we don't count as much anymore. The total income of the company depends on the power supply if they do not pay for electricity and parts of Split, the Makarska coast and that part of Omis from which they are not powered, especially this Split hinterland and Split are threatened and thus throughout the Republic of Croatia. I called here a few months ago by the competent minister, Coric, that even those who care about finding a model of joint public procurement all means all the water lines in the Republic and thus to achieve a lower price. This water is more expensive than oil, and we are rich, so it is a shameful example that in the Cetina region and Cetina that produces 40% of the hydropower, 40% of the Republic's hydropower that we are literally threatened with the delivery of water and cannot Minister Pilateski's handtips that everything is fine, if it wasn't for the price of so much jump, what would I triangulate harachite and peel the skin with our citizens because the minister is doing Pilate's hands and transferred it to the local self-governments down here to solve this problem. Do I have the right to do that? So to raise the price 100%, 200%, 300% cannot reach the needs of water companies. This is what I'm talking about right now, but that's the way it is in Slavonia, and mostly in mountainous mountainous areas where the pumps are, and it takes this as much energy as possible to work on it, that water can even reach households. And with that 40% of the hydropower produced by the cetinal landscape, do we have any compensation? No, you canceled, you left us alone. We're all proud of our water. What's in it for us? Well, water is more important than oil. We have a problem we need to solve immediately and urgently. I call on the minister in this case as a parliamentary representative and as a citizen, but also the mayor to urgently find a solution, to find all these water-region areas, companies that worry about finding a solution to this energy crisis, mostly those rural ones who have been forgotten before the crash, who are devastated in the privatisation where people have lost their jobs, so there is no way to transfer it all to, to these people and to those citizens and not only in the Republic of Zagreb and certain cities, there are other cities in the Republic that are potent and developmental, but in this crisis there is no minister to wash Pilateski hands, nor Prime Minister Plenkovic around this gathering, now I just said this, look how much food is the most important water, energy, this is key to our agricultural land and we can survive, but obviously we are not only good servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83450	We are now going to the 11th debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83451	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There's often talk in the assembly about the past, and I'm going to change a little bit about the future and the near future. In a few days it is April 10th, and in Split Ruđera Boskovica street is traditionally held a public gathering allegedly due to honouring the dead defenders, and indeed because of the celebration of the anniversary of the creation of NDH. In addition, part of the talk of the organizer, who this year was the organizer who made it fair and clear, was short of a centuries of Croatian freedom in 1941. establishing an Independent State of Croatia. Also during our speech to the country in which we live today, whose name is Republic of Croatia, speakers have been calling NDH all along. We believe that in a specific case, the conditions of the Article are met. 14. The law on public gathering of points 4 and 5 and that the Minister of the Interior should issue a solution to the ban on this gathering because, firstly, the objectives of this gathering are aimed at calling and encouraging national, racial, religious hatred and intolerance, it is a serious disturbance of public order and peace, and it is expected that the symbols for which the courts have jurisdiction and the Constitutional Court have also assessed that their emphasis violates public order and peace and represent a manifestation of racist ideology. Also, this gathering, under the assumption of the same scenario as in previous years, would violate the Declaration of Homeland War, whose preamble was to be cited, believing that fundamental values, the fundamental values of the Homeland War, are uniformly accepted by the entire Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and to stop the radical politicisation of the Homeland War and the worrying polarisation of Croatian society. In this case neither the entire Croatian people accepts April 10th as a day to be solemnly marked, nor do such gatherings stop radical politicisation and worrying polarisation of Croatian society but rather the opposite. Furthermore, this set is in direct contrast to points 3 and 4. Declarations about the Homeland War which says that the successful defence in the Homeland War with the final liberation of military redistribution operations Flash and Storm and later peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube created all assumptions for a coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern Western world and opens up numerous approaches to the world in political, security, economic and cultural terms. And to quote, the fundamental value of the Homeland War is the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, which creates assumptions for the rule of law and the rule of law and the legal functioning of state bodies as well as the best way to further affirm the dignity of the Homeland War. On the contrary, such a gathering spits in the face that the democratic standards of the modern Western world which actively participated in the anti-fascist coalition in World War II, as well as the action of the rule of law and does not represent the affirmation of the dignity of the Homeland War, but rather wants to tell us that the Homeland War was not being led to establish the Republic of Croatia as a follower of ZAVNOH but as a follower of the NDH and as such represents their negation. The selected date, symbols and speaks on that column, that's exactly what they confirm. I therefore call on the Minister of the Interior to prohibit such a meeting within the framework of its legal powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83452	Injury of my colleague Zekanovic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83453	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, my colleague Bauk said he would not talk about the past, and he talked all the time about the past. The only one in this Croatian Assembly is back in '41. By '45. The year is exactly the SDP, and it speaks of its own, its inadequacy of their politics and would like to take advantage of its time next time there is a vampire ball in Kumrovec or in the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83454	Comrade Zekanovic, of course you deserve a warning, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is some kind of replica or intervention. We're done taking a stand, so now we're moving on to those agenda points that we announced for today, Thank you. We are going to the eighth debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected counterpart Kapulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83538	Mr. President-in-Office of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There's a saying known that a hundred times a repeated lie exists the truth, and I'd hoped that unfortunately for the truth a hundred times the repeated truth doesn't gain weight. And then the question really arises how can someone defend themselves against any, especially politically motivated lies? So, if you remember Mr. Nicole Grmoy, the president of the Representatives' Club of Bridge decided recently to repeat a lie that he has kept repeating for more than a year. So said you went to Slovenia 9, I know you went to Slovenia 9, you were at a club in Slovenia 9, you were among those who went to Slovenia 9. After I told him it wasn't true, what did he say? He says you were at the club in Slovensko 9 and he wants me to go on the polygraph issue. He says we'll see it on the polygraph. So he initiated a polygraph examination that I have to go to, he defined the question of this polygraph study and I hope it's clear to everyone. Finally, the one that is determined after that examination and shows that he is lying leaves politics. I hope that's clear, too. Here are the results of two polygraphs that show Nikola Grumoja is lying. So, a man who wants to and now announces that he will be the police minister, after it is clear that the police can no longer participate asked for this polygraph interrogation. Now the polygraph is no longer valid, it is not worth two, so if Grmoya's statement is not valid in front of the entire Croatian public and the hand provided, what's it worth? If it's not worth the polygraph, not one but two, and their results that show that I've never been to a club in Slovenia 9, that before the affair broke out and the press releases, I didn't know that this club existed and that not only was I not there but that no one ever invited me to come there worth it? What methods would that want the Home Secretary to use? Beating, connecting to electricity, pulling nails, denying sleep, simulating drowning and similar methods to get the results that satisfy him? So, in the next few days, as the Bolt processes and realizes that he is a liar and that by staying in politics, he loses all his political credibility, I won't call him Thunder anymore. The bush is for me today, Mr. Matko, and Mr. Matko according to information no. 412 in February '89. I quote Associate Matko that the gathering for this meeting started about 16 hours on February 28th, '89. in the year, that he took over all the organizational activities of Franjo Tudjman, and a group of persons led by a person named Kapulica. The identification and verification of this person is ongoing." This Mr. Matko is worse than that of the Mother because he was telling the truth, although the data was given to the enemy service of the Croatian State. This one's lying, this one's constructing, and this one's making it up. Mr. Matko made sails bigger than a ship and now those sails filled with lies are driving him out of politics and I don't know how many hand ropes he's gonna keep from his club so he doesn't get out of that policy. So, Matko won't have to deal with it anymore, but there are the other representatives of the Most. I call on any representative from the MOST Club from their president to repeat Matkov's claim that I have anything to do with the money found at Puklin. It's the same bet, let's go for a polygraph. If I'm lying, I'm leaving politics, if the believer, Nicole Grmoya, is lying, he's leaving politics. I call on him to repeat the question that I have nothing to do with the employment of Fazlovic in Luttria. Same bet. I invite you, from the MOST Club, to repeat that I have any stakes in any society, secret or public, if I'm lying, I'm pulling out of politics, Then we'll change the stakes. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] So I'm going to ask you some questions that you're going to have a polygraph answer to. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83539	Thank you, Comrade Hood. 6th debate of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF and Honored counterpart Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83586	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Today, there have been words from several of my predecessors about the accumulation of assets, unfair confiscation etc., etc., and I must note that one such accumulation of original capital is known therefore from capitalism theory on the stage in Croatia in the last 30 years. It's escalating these days and yesterday I'm reading in the Morning List that 9 out of 10 OPGs don't pay the government's commitments, they don't pay, but they're taking the incentives, and all this goes together to make that capital go round as much as possible. We have experience in the '90s privatisation robbery, we have experience from the '20s, and today the same thing is happening. So in the last 30 years he's been on the scene so-called. the initial accumulation of capital. My colleague Furio Radin was saying what they told him, asking him to go back there to some owner of Maraska if I wasn't wrong about what was taken from him, what he had acquired honestly. Did he gain it honestly or did he gain it from the work of people who worked for him, while at the same time they were hungry often starved to death? The French Revolution, the first republic as such, took away the surpluses from those who owned it, which took advantage of practically slave, agricultural labour that at the same time died of hunger, and should not have even gone into the woods to use the forest. So there were great resistances. We're saying we're in the republic. I am now asking a rhetorical question, which if in 50 or 30 or 20 years, a political option comes in Croatia that will say all this that was in the '90s and the '20s was unfair, and those people should be taken away from what they wrongly acquired and became multimillionaires and billionaires, and before that, they didn't have a checker until the '90s, and those are full of Croatia, whatever you want. Would that be unfair? I don't think so. said Jovan Raskovic, the psychiatrist who started an armed rebellion in Croatia by colluding Croatian Serbs to legally elected authorities in the 1990s. years before, he said Serbs are a crazy people. I agree, completely crazy people, always work against themselves and their history, but neither are we. We're not far away either because these things we read in the newspaper of these affairs that come out every day, these people who have an invaluable wealth that 99% of the population, not only the inhabitants, but also our fellow MPs can dream, these people don't just go unpunished in front of the law, but the worst of all go unpunished in the elections. So people in the Croatian elections, Croatian citizens continue to support that option that made them. Well, it's bordering on madness, it's bordering on masochism. He spoke about the need for organisational or administrative reform. I've been saying that for 10, 15 years, that's my profession. Croatia is unsustainable in this way, but when it is looked at on a flat-rate basis, when there is no problem then enough is said to reduce the number of municipalities. No need to reduce the number of municipalities, the number of municipalities needs to be increased, but they need to be deprived of the powers they now have. Countys should be abolished, so the county is something that was designed to manage these small municipalities, operated because no municipality is sustainable without the county. He who heads the county determines the political and any other fate of the small unsustainable municipality. Let's stop the county, increase the number of municipalities, reduce their powers, make 100 wheels or municipalities, or whatever you want to call them which and thus exist as normal centres in the last 500 years in Croatia. These are gathering centers, and all small municipalities remain as municipalities but on a volunteer base with no professional politicians, no professional employees, no professional communal directors, no these official vehicles. So the town of Samobor is a city of friends with the city of Wirges in Germany one example is the city of 15,000 inhabitants. I was, of course, on an official visit 1 in 12 years, and I realized they had a mayor who's a volunteer, who works 2 or 3 hours a day because it's his duty. They belong under... So Westerwald is the center of their gathering, and they have their mayor, their city council, they're all volunteers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only thing they decide on is the way they will. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Head... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Beljak.]] layout [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] their money in the budget in their space. [[Intruder: Comrade Beljak, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83619	Thank you. We're going to the third debate, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, dear colleague Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83620	Thank you very much. The occupation of Croatian territory is quiet without a fired bullet directly threatened by the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the unlawful devastation of space, environment and nature, the ecocid in the protected area of a significant landscape. All of this is happening in the most attractive areas of our country, and the state institutions are sleeping. I get information from the field that companies registered in Slovenia on their websites advertise the sale of land in Rovinj in a package of installation homes and all of this would be normal if this area was not a agricultural land on which of course is a ban on the construction and installation of these houses. In a nearby protected area in Palutka is a significant landscape in which many special types of protected birds occur. It all starts with a small deforestation, so by building an access road where trucks and heavy machinery begin to arrive and suddenly begin to create and begin to break some strange dwellings in the middle of the forest. And it was particularly important to point out that, of course, it was strictly forbidden here in a protected landscape and that no one would have thought of it in any orderly country. He wouldn't, because he'd know in advance that he'd be expected to be punished by such dragons so he wouldn't recover for years and he wouldn't even think about it. Now watch the situation with us. Finally, the court shall rule in favour of a public institution which manages a protected area followed by, of course, the punishment of the offender. The establishment sends a letter to the offenders to return the parcel to its original state, but nowhere is it defined what happens when the parcel is not returned to its original state in such an area. The interpretation of the responsible institutions is that it is not clear exactly what inspections are in charge of which illegal actions, which is a procedure and which is not an operation in nature, that there is no precisely prescribed procedure for returning to the original state are based on a legal article. I repeat, this is all about a protected area managed by a public institution. If that's really true, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, what kind of country do we live in? In the protected area, forests, houses are being set up, particles are being built with concrete walls, Slovenian advertising companies are selling installation houses along with a agricultural field several hundred metres from the sea in Rovinj, where they will place the house. They cannot be blamed if they are allowed to do so, or if no one gives them any punishment and no one prevents them from doing so. Good thing there's a solution, and I hope we get to it. Istrian municipalities, cities, counties offer assistance, part of a solution in a way that takes over construction inspection tasks since there are insufficient numbers of inspectors on the ground and this is really a problem on the ground. And for protected areas of nature like this in Palud, the waist on the ground proposes to amend the Nature Protection Act, and predicting the possibility of entering the property, destroying, delivering accounts to the perpetrator, the offender if he does not pay for it to be carried out. A small step forward and we welcome it, we welcomed it in the first reading and I hope it will soon come to a second reading to solve it. It's the Agricultural Land Act, but it's just one step, one small step. We also have forest land, protected areas, etc. But what may be even more important is that we do not now have quality implementation or existing laws. Even under existing laws, it must not be built beyond the limits of building areas. Because we need to know, this is a crime against nature, against the environment, against space, against the millennium culture of life in that space that is already defined by this culture of life. And it's not just about who's doing the crime. There is a much bigger problem in those who are encouraging their inaction to continue to do so, which is unfortunately in this case the Croatian state and its institutions, the one that closes their eyes or partially closes. Some things were helpful, but it closes our eyes in general when we look at cry for help and support. And for this pay phone, we've been asking for help for years. We constantly point to what is happening in Istria, but there is no reaction, or it is insufficient. I repeat, in Istria, you have the support of the county, the cities, the municipalities that are willing to invest their resources in solving the problem. It is the last time we are heard to save Croatia's space together from further devastation, to put an end to this destruction of our beautiful nature, our beautiful country. Let's wake up, noon's long gone and save together what's most valuable to the people of this country, and that's space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83666	As the fourth one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-06-0.u83667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The property is theft, said the anarchist Proudhon, and this form of possession was condemned by one of the church's holy fathers Ambrosia and many others, all the later to St. Francis, and the last and Pope Francesco who wrote white on black the right to private property is not untouchable. Everyone understood then as today that this refers to excessive accumulation of goods that impoverish society and take away what was created by exploiting others. But that was not the fate of the Zadar family Luxardo. She lost, in fact, except that she lost everything and it became then property nationalized, she is, of course, privatized again today, she has lost family things. The Maraskina factory was founded 200 years ago, precisely 201 years ago. During the war, the factory collapsed and later changed its name to Marasca and produced liqueurs whose relationship to the original was as generally aproximate. The original Maraschino and several dozen other products are produced today and the family does so in a new factory in northern Italy and exports to 86 countries. The original property nationalized for which it was necessary to kill the two uncles of Mr. Franz Luxard of today's patriarchy family and to judge them after the murder in order to justify nationalisation. Let us return to family matters, however, because what is certain is that we can agree that they are intimate, inalienable and do not represent theft but have an emotional and family value. The father's study of the then head of the family... The picture of that room shows portraits of the Luxardo family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those pictures of Girollam founders 200 years ago, Michelangelo later, until those I mentioned earlier were portraits of family. These are family portraits of the Luxardo family and they are, some of them are exhibited at the Zadar Museum, some are in the dump. Of course, when it was necessary to search bureaucratically for property in the offices of many of those who gained the status of defenders sitting behind states, perhaps once confiscated tables were also organized to help Dubrovnik residents. So when this happened, Franco Luxardo and his brother organized help for Dubrovnik. Of course, the portrait did look for all those letters, all that. But Mr. Franco Luxardo, a 85-year-old gentleman today, fails not to recover family personal pictures, but fails to borrow them, because in fact everything has turned into something that's a loan project for a newly established museum of the two hundredth anniversary company. He's ready to restore the images, he's ready to digitize the copies. He told me he was ready to scholarship Croatian students to borrow his ancestors' portraits. This man who seeks imagine his paintings for the factories and museums he built, for factories and museums, the factories he built two centuries ago and the paintings that would by all means be his unfortunately did not encounter a gesture of goodwill in our institutions. A gesture of goodwill is asked of him, symbolically almost at the same time representatives of several furlan municipalities who in earthquakes have great experience carrying a convoy of assistance to Bani So there should be no problem about these gestures. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
