ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21095	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 156 MPs. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum and I'm taking a break until 12:00. [[After break - 12.15.]] I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Before we continue to work, I would like to inform the MPs present that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the regular session session. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs:Stevan Lilić, Radomir Naumov, Vlatko Sekulović, Dusan Golubović, Dragan Šutanovac, Zarko Obradović, Miroslav Markicevic, Ružica Veljović, Miloš Lučić, Dusan Cvetković, Petar Misic, Miroslav Christodulo, Boško Ničić, Vasilija Pavićić, Dragoslav Bosković, Sredoje Mihajlov, Biači Anton, Išpanovic Iscan, Atla Juhas, Torde Laslo, Ratimir Svircevic, Ljubodrag Grbić and Vera Marković. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, the Student Union of Serbia, the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", the Low Student Associations and representatives of the Student Federation. I'd like to introduce the guests present. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON BASAL SCHOOL (single) Members of Parliament Dragan Marković, Milos Lukić, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted together. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21096	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has submitted an amendment to Article 22, where it proposes to add Article 3 after Article 2, which reads: "The Director has been relieved of duties within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of this article is assigned to other relevant tasks, and if such jobs are not available, he is exercising the rights of the employee whose work has ceased the need". The government rejected this amendment with an explanation that it was covered by Amendment 5. Government, which reads: "The discharge director is exercising his right as employees of whose work the need has ceased". I think the party's amendment is better, because it protects the director, who was in that position. Because if we were to interpret this closely, the director would be out of a job at the end of his job. I think this is a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21097	I thank my colleague Petrovic. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and ask the Members of Parliament to approach the vote. For 33, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21098	The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 23 be deleted. Proposal for a law on elementary school. Article 23, in fact, newly established Article 117a, relies on both Article 117 and Article 115, because Article 115 of the old law regulates the subject matter of the selection of directors, and Article 117a of the election of acting directors. In order to explain the need for this member to be deleted, allow me to read the proposed Article 117a, expecting that time of quote not to be taken in time for an explanation. Article 117a reads: "The school director's office is appointed by the school board, to the selection of directors, and for the longest time for six months. The decision to appoint a director shall not be subject to the consent of the Minister of Education. If the term of office of the school director expires, and the school board does not elect the school director after the competition has been called, the director shall be appointed by the minister of education." The arguments and the reasons why the SRS submitted this amendment, seeking to delete the read member, are found in the member himself; you will see that this member is unnecessarily inserted and that he is the largest basis for manipulation and marifetteluke prepared by the minister of sports, and I will explain why. The school director's calling the school board. If there is no director, no one will even call the school board, the school board won't even work and there won't be a director, there won't be an executive, and it's normal for what you've declared to be one of the three "d"s, and that's -- decentralisation, to return to the fact that the Minister of Education is appointed as acting director. Is that your declared three "d", as the Minister of Sports said; one of which is decentralisation, so long as only a teacher's council selects a director in its collective, proposes it to the school board, and the school board agrees with the authorities of local self-government and reaches the Minister of Education for Verification. In this way, with this inserted, you're just giving a new member a basis for believing that manipulation is going to be. When all this doesn't work out, there's the minister of sports who's going to appoint the director again. I've read it, and you'll understand why, an entire member who says - if the board doesn't elect a director, the director's office is appointed by the Minister of Education. How long? Infinitely. Because if you'd put it where it would have been, then it would have been renewed. And why didn't you? Because you're clear about your transparent intent, this time really transparent, transparent and naked to the ultimate intent, to make manipulation happen again in that so-called. decentralisation, again at the highest level, and that's what the minister of sports does. In some better times, during the time of Jovan Jovanovic the Dragon (president - time)... I'm done. I asked that the time of the quote of this member not count.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21099	I didn't count that time on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21100	Here, I'm done. Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, in these happier times, during Jovan Jovanovic the Dragon, in Serbia, education and education were given due attention, because education and education were one of the pillars of development and of such a state, as well as of such Serbia. Now some other times have come. Now DOS is in power, and no wonder Uncle Jova Dragon, otherwise known and confessed to the radical, wrote ironic songs, so he talked about some lazy Gashi. (President: Please finish). Dear parents, don't let the "leading gasha" rule in Serbia because of this law on education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21101	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with all these remarks made by MP Bozidar Vujic, and one of the basics is that we've had enough of the performers, we've had enough of ZUR, we've had enough "v.d. The question arises as to what the Government wanted, which is what it wanted from the explanation, with the amendment to this member, but the question is what has been achieved by Article 3 which says that the acting director will restate his job in the workplace from which he was appointed as acting director during his duties. I understand the proposal's desire to provide security to a teacher, an associate, perhaps even a school psychologist at school, but these are just some of the conditions for someone to be a school director, or to be an executive. That's why you didn't say the school's director could be just an actual teacher or psychologist. What if someone meets all the conditions, works as a teacher, has the necessary years of internships spent at school, but he worked in the economy, and the school board sets him up for V.D. Director. On what basis are his rights at rest where he came from? What if he comes from a ballet or music school founded by a private man? You cannot guarantee him with this law, nor can you force the founder, or the owner of the company, to rest his rights there. Because he was not elected and placed face by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He's being set up by a school board. You can't oblige anyone to take him back to work, except for state school. But it's not even a condition to be V.D. Director, get her out of state school. It fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 20. The law, and it can also be a person who works in any enterprise in Serbia. There's a commitment that won't be possible. By intervention in Article 20, it was necessary to say that the principal of the school could be chosen by one who is currently a teacher, a psychologist, and meets certain conditions; then we could guarantee him that all of this would rest on these, as you say in the explanation, for the longest six months. I may not have read the bill carefully, but I haven't found a legal provision that says that this will take up to six months for the performer, so the question is whether it will last for the longest six months just because it says so in the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21103	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 115, the abstentioned were not voted 18, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. National MP Bojana Aleksic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, withdraws the amendment. I find that he ceases to be the subject of discussion, or a search in particular. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. The elementary school law. I propose, by this amendment, that Article 24 of the proposed law be deleted. We Serbian radicals against such school boards and all the formulas of those committees. The reason is that self-government is introduced which is distributed to three times three entities, which will not make the right decisions, and the reason for this decision-making can be covered by various ideas. The founder of the school is the Government of the Republic; in our opinion the founder should also run schools. The school board existed in the previous law and in practice did not show any positive effects. That's just one reason why you're proposing to delete this member. The school board members were, and today they are people of inadequate education, but therefore politically similar, so the school board was and remained one of the funds of political manipulation at the local level. The bill did not regulate the way schools are run by legal and physical persons. It is simply incomprehensible that local self-government representatives proposed by the minister of education are part of schools whose legal and physical management is established. From the presentation of the Minister of Education and Sports, it could be concluded that there are three principles in this law, which should eliminate negative intensities, which are: decentralisation, depolitisation and democratisation. Centralism is being transformed into local self-government, the ones who gave you these principles why they do it. It's easier for them to influence the local than at the ministry level. The politicisation wasn't expelled today from school, but has further strengthened positions. It's transparent today in all primary and secondary schools. Democracy in schools is so set up that NGOs can now point and turn towards their imagined goals, so that these three principles today cannot be sincere and promise some security in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21105	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is not here, and I wanted to object to his explanation for not accepting this amendment. In an explanation of the non-acceptation of amendments, which regulates the composition of the school board, the lawmaker wrote that he could not accept the erasure of the provisions in the draft laws governing the school board. We didn't even suggest it. We're merely suggesting that Article 24 be deleted and that it remain in force as a member of the 118th basic law, which is also governed by the school board. It's true, he's sorting out the composition in a different way, but it was our wish as an amendment promoter. Under the new bill, the government proposes that the school board have nine members, that three members be representatives of local self-government, a third of the members be from the teaching council and a third from the board of parents, and we suggest that if the school board has nine members, (we have proposed at least five, and may have nine) the founder of the school, half the teachers, and one member of the board of parents. It's not erasing the provisions governing the school board. It's just a different arrangement of the composition of the school board, so I can't accept that the one whom the minister has tasked with responding to the amendments doesn't engage in the interpretation of the amendments and that the proposal to delete one member of the amendment and supplement is considered as a proposal to delete the provisions governing the school board. It wasn't our wish, and it wouldn't have happened with the amendment. Through this amendment, we repeat a permanent part of the Serbian Radical Party programme, that the founder must participate in governance; whether it is business, school, any other institution, we do not care.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21107	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 29, against 114 abstentions, 20 did not vote 15, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Socialist Party of Serbia is of the view that the requirements of the three major unions regarding the governance structure in our school are justified and gives full support to such demands. We believe that these demands are legitimate and we remind you in this way that in a very prominent campaign, which you led right before the elections, you promised the schools that the directors would actually be appointed by collectives based on the statement of employees in collectives. I remind you that in Cacca and other municipalities, which I know well, there have been cases in many schools that the collective will be declared 100% for some people, and that later the Minister's solution, or the Ministry's appointment of others. (Milka Marinkovic: All commies. I know, of course, it's not easy...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21109	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21110	I ask Mrs. Klara Cetkin of the Democratic Party not to throw away and ask Mr. Sabic to apply the Rules of Procedure once in the case of Mrs. Milka Marinkovic. It is inadmissible that he can cast any messenger without ever earning a warning. You have gentlemen, double standards and double criteria. You can't, Mrs. Milka Marinkovic, change the entire collective and they're not the whole commie collective, as you throw it. These are people who know the candidates best. You are inconsistencies and you did not honor what you promised, that is the essence, and in this National Assembly, where MPs, who have been resolved, have had the support of 100% of their collectives. You've been adhering to the union's support. The union struggle was identified by your political struggle and political goals, which you had as final. Today, when these unions demand that the school committees be established on principle 5+3+1, you propose 3+3+3. Of course, you have to explain that to the unions who were so supportive of you. If the 3+3+3 concept remains a vague question of who gives legitimacy to the selection of three parents. No matter what you explain, this thing is completely contrary to what you stand for and it will remain in the sphere of discretion or local community or one of the key people, politically exposed, in your interest, at a school where the director is elected. I therefore warn once again that this is about the classic replacement of the thesis and I ask the MPs to declare this amendment, because it is in the interest of the three largest unions in this country's education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21111	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21112	Two of the three unions, and that, I would say, is not the largest, have pleaded for a proposal whose content is identical to the amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia. They even stepped out of normal union demands and organized a warning strike. Ten percent of the schools in this country responded to that warning strike. They have proved that they have less than 10% of the members, both; that's what it looks like to me, and now it's a matter of representativeness. Of course, this is not the time and place to talk about unions. This is just a union argument that's been used, so that's what I'm answering. As far as the concept is concerned, we at the Ministry of Education and the Government of Serbia believe that the concept by which students also participate in school management is a very current and very good concept, because we open up the possibility of an entire structure, a single social cell, which we can call parents, to participate in work and school management. There are no problems with the election, for the parents’ advice will be to select those representatives at their own meeting, and the advice of parents makes up one representative of parents from each school class. According to this, we strongly insist on a composition that is tripartitely set up as we have set it up. I would pray that the MPs of this assembly realize that there are countries, and that there are more, in which parents have absolute authority in leading the school. That's not what we wanted. We stepped out one step, but we didn't go all the way, but we put all the social groups interested in the school on the job. In doing so, I draw your attention to thinking that of all social groups, regardless of what employees work in that school, parents have the best intentions in relation to school, because it is a school where they teach their child. At least that's clear. They want the best quality. So we expect that if someone pulls her, she'll be pulling her parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21113	The word was sought by Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21114	Dear ministers and associates, we've been having talks about the school board, about what the unions have been doing. Let me tell you, certain memos haven't even arrived, so no strikes are organized properly, a warning strike. On the other hand, you might want to take a look at the current union leadership. It would be better if he could see where the workers are, under which conditions they work and live, rather than flirting with the Serbian government. As far as this law and this proposal are concerned, we said in the talks that it would be a better statement of the collective about the candidate, above 50%; that was one variant where the meaning of the collective would be respected. But the explanations all of you had, and with your associates, you say the situation has been compromised, so the mines can be provided, in fact, for their personnel. Who violated the situation in collectives in a year and a half? It's not like in a year and a half certain directors aren't able to create a normal working atmosphere, is it? If they weren't, then such directors weren't allowed to be named. Surely there are directors who are appointed and who are doing their job correctly, but there is also this other side, because the directors were deployed before power was taken. Schools are divided, and then they're so named. If they were normal competitions, it'd probably be a different mood. I think the Ministry should have an insight into the state of the environment, in which school, and that's what it looks at. Minister, the parent is interested, first of all, in his child. They want parents, when the actions are even helpful. But we don't have the western part, for today's rich people we have, they have a very nice home from school. Everything they offer is also conditioned by their child's perspective. If circumstances were more normal, if we had a relative wealth, then I could accept that parents participate, without conditions. But if we rely on parents to participate because they will provide and press on teachers to continue, by investing funds, etc., then we don't need such a thing. Indeed, realistically, we are not in any normal situation to have parents who have reached a certain wealth by their work, funds that could be invested for human reasons, out of a sense of school. That's a small number. Therefore, anyone who provides funds is also asking for a favor. That's the problem, and that's the part that needs to be seen. And when better conditions are secured, then maybe there won't be a need, because there will be private schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21115	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21116	By denying the rights of founders, the government will make some confusion throughout Serbia and will place a large number of people ahead of the dilemma whether to participate in this at all. For example, a question is asked to the councils of the city’s congregation, or congregation, whether they want to participate in declaring a closed list that they will receive, since it is obvious, on the basis of Article 24, that only three members will be proposed to a teacher. So the congregation of the municipality doesn't make the right choice. The Council of Parents will propose only three members, members of 24 have the right to propose only three members. The municipal assembly is required to elect three members to the school board. So what's democracy about? Are there any criminal provisions for the congregation of the city, or congregation, if it does not choose the school board? Can the school work if she doesn't choose the school board? Now we return to the very content of the amendment. I think this amendment is subject to certain requirements that came from school employees, that they actually manage schools. Since you have already so loudly announced this for higher education, the question arises why teachers are not able to run schools. Why are only professors and university associates capable of running universities and universities, and primary and secondary school teachers are unable to run schools. You didn't promise them that in the same way you would regulate the work they are doing, and this is about educating children. They just have a little older kids, and they have smaller kids and more responsibility. I can't accept the thesis just so lightly said, unfounded, that parents are the most measured to decide how school works because they want the best for their children. Well, parents want the best, not just their own, their children, but they don't know how school should work. The state wants to secure the best school and is able to do so. Parents can declare themselves to be for the best school, but they don't know what the best school is. They don't do it, they don't do it, they don't get paid for it. The pay to know which is the best school and to apply it immediately in our schools is paid at the Ministry of Education, where people who only work the job are paid. In my opinion, they know what the best school is. She does not know the advice of her parents, especially those of the three parents who would suggest it. You don't have any criteria. I wish one day the school board would make up the people who support that school. (President: Time.) ) The minister says - parents are already doing so in the West, even in schools that parents do not support. The school boards in the West support the school. They invest, provide sponsors, provide donations. Here, in this elementary school that we're dealing with today, it's only the Republic of Serbia. Well, I guess the Republic of Serbia should do the duty, or at least in the majority, to perform the duties, which you have now divided into three times three. I'm afraid one day we'll have three times six in schools, and you know what that means.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21117	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SPS proposal has simply decided. I was in these assembly benches in 1992 when the elementary school law was passed. You didn't mean it then. Why didn't you bring it into the law then? You've had 10 years of time. There have been some changes and additions to the Law on Elementary and High School, and you have not extended that model once. Now you remember him, when you went into opposition. Basically, the model can work, although it represents a novelty at primary school level. At the level of primary school, there is greater parental interest in the success of students than it is in secondary education. There may be problems when it comes to secondary education, for the simple reason that parents are often unmotivated when it comes to adult children or my example is not sufficiently instructive. Otherwise, you can argue about it. On what basis, for example, the minister says "social," and I would say "interest group" is favored. If on the basis of the contribution, if the school is supported by the budget, it is supported by people's money, then it is simple that all employees participate in school financing and do not have to be parents. But there are parents and interested persons at the beginning, and I think this model has the success of passing. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support this member's proposal, as the government did, will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21119	I thank my colleague Ćirkovic. The word requires an amendment, a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21120	There are no terrible suggestions, there are people who in everything that doesn't agree with what they think recognize horror. The good taste and education I brought from the house tell me to break my line here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21121	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? If no one answers for a word, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 107, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Išpanovich Istvan, submitted the amendment to Article 24. The government and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. It wasn't against 124 abstentions, it wasn't 40 votes, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment ask for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zivko Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment of the Soviet Parliament group that I submitted to Article 24 refers to the number and composition of the members of the school board. Here's the text of that amendment. Article 24 paragraph 3 reads: "The school board has nine members. Five members of the class of teachers and professional associates propose a teachingly larger secret statement, one member suggests a parent's advice by a secret vote, and three members are representatives of local self-government." Here are the reasons; the proposed amendment changes the composition of the school board, increasing the number of members who propose a teaching council, providing a more significant impact on work and school management, as well as on school management when deciding on the selection of school directors. The reduction of the number of members proposed by the advice of parents reduces the risk of ineffectiveness in decision making, given the interests of parents within the competence of the parent council. In doing so, the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union points out that the solution to the composition of the school board, proposed by this amendment, also contains the regulations of some of our neighbouring countries, and this has proved to be good, which is why more is due to the adoption of this amendment. I'll use the time, I have more, since in the last term I was a member of a school board at a Belgrade school and I'm saying this from experience, Mr. Minister, that this three-three-three relationship is not good, precisely because no one can take better care of his family than its members. So no one can better represent the interests or see better interests than members of the school. I had the opportunity to see in the last term, since out of the total number of members there was one less representative of the school, there was always a revote, most of us from local self-government, then even the government was giving one representative. I think that's exactly why this amendment should be accepted. One more thing, through parents, the easiest thing to do is to make a decision; you know, there's a nice thing to say, a parent is a member of the school board, you know a little bit of silence, this, that, because it's a child, and I think both teachers and teachers are parents first and then two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21123	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 32, against 97, abstentions, were not voted 33, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojana Alexic, as a representative of the applicants for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21124	In the past few days, the DSS has put forward a concept of school management that was somewhat different from the concept proposed by the Government; as much as we felt that, instead of three members of the school board, it would be better if the parent's advice were proposed by one member, while the other two members were proposed by local self-government, but from the teachers' order, or teachers' or representatives of the local economy, when it comes to secondary and higher-level schools. The DSS concept meant, first of all, the vertical integration of three levels of education, which was our idea that this is exactly how, through this concept of school committees, we could connect primary school, secondary school and university. Our concept required the simultaneous application of the new Law on Local Self-Government and relied on the law a few times. However, at this point, we have a situation that the Law on Local Self-Government, which has voted this assembly, can still not be applied in practice, but will only be applied after local elections, whose maintenance date is uncertain at this time, could be in three months and may still be in two to three years; as at this moment we do not have reform laws on primary and secondary schools, where it would be possible in the right way, as we imagined, to apply such a concept; how we only have amendments and supplementary laws; and new education laws still need to be passed when a long-awarded reform of education, which is at this time only at its beginning, the DSS Group estimates that at this point, it would be more comprehensive to withdraw our amendment in favour of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21125	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment, so it ceases to be the subject of a particular search. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The amendment guy wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Popov, and the other representatives of the Government, I have sought to convey my years of experience by intervening my amendments for two things: firstly, that this law should not be open to the influence of ideology or not to give God's nationalism; the second thing was disabled because the essence of these amendments and additions did not allow intervention, so that students would be relieved of the vast material and textbooks, which are certainly not correct now. For my happiness, and fortunately, I hope all schools and total education, the government and you who have decided here have accepted the amendments that I have proposed. This is the first amendment most likely not to be accepted. That's for sure. I hope that what the Ministry has proposed, and when it comes to these school boards, it will still give an adequate answer to the situation in which we are. Just for the record, I suggested that the school boards be elected by five members to choose the school staff, not just teachers and teachers, two members will be elected by representatives of local smao management, and two members of the parents' representatives, or the parents' council. I don't want to further explain this amendment, because I repeat again, I trust the current Ministry and trust more, when it comes to this member, but to myself. Hoping that in due time, however, it will be what is in most European countries, which is that parents still have the greatest influence in the matter of school committees, giving up their amendment and I will support the amendment proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21127	I find that the applicant has withdrawn the amendment and thus has ceased to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 77, there are no gliders, there is no 44, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was also submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go. (From Hall: Song. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21128	Don't sing a song, then 100 marks per verse of punishment. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in previous discussions, there have been approximately two approaches to the school board's appearance. One is the one who seeks the advantage of employees and parents, and the other is the one who seeks the advantage of the Founder. As far as the SRS is concerned, we think that the founder who participates in funding with 100% must have at least 50% decision options. The responsibility of the school board shall be decided by Article 119 and by which the school board shall adopt the statutes of the school; it shall adopt an annual work programme; it shall decide on the intentional use of the special fund of the school; it shall decide on the use of the school's funds in accordance with the law; it shall call a competition for the director, but shall no longer give its opinion on its appointment and shall consider any other issues. There may be a conflict of interest among members of the school board, founders and employees' interest in most trials will not coincide. The Founder will have an interest, for example. for modernising teaching, and employees and parents will, for example, have an interest in sharing money from a special fund with teachers or spending on study trips, so that three unconscious or semi-aware parents and two unconscious teachers share a special fund of school despite the interests of founders. The introduction of this type of school boards brings us back to self-government, to the law on joint work, to the famous ideologists of social self-management of Pepica end Edward Kardelj, and to God both Kostunica and Labus, in their core and capital work "Self-management in social activities". As for the SRS, we asked that the words "school board" be changed in the words "founder", because these are powers that cannot be... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Vukurovic.) ....................................................................................................... leave, (I've finished) to be dealt with twice by two representatives of parents and employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21129	The word was also sought by the Minister of Education and Sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21130	Since we have a concept that a political organization is very consistent with, I want to say something when it comes to elementary schools. When funding primary schools, the state does not show nobility or altruism, nor does business, it performs its duty, because primary education is mandatory. Don't let the fact that someone's being funded give us the right to manage. It may be at some other level, but at the level of compulsory education, it loses its weight. The financing argument does not exist because the state fulfils its constitutional obligation to compulsory education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21131	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21132	It's not our concept, nor our concept, so that only the state decides how to run an elementary school. It wasn't even like that at university, but well, the minister has the right to interpret his proposals, and our amendments, as we interpret his draft laws, and we're looking for what we're convinced is going to prove wrong in practice. Of course, this is not a matter of law -- how the school board will make decisions. How come it's in the draft law on elementary school? Well, that's regulated, if not by the statutes of the school, then at least by that rule that regulates the work of the school board. Then you should say here -- and the school board is holding sessions on Mondays, or I don't know, that it's fully regulated. And what it means now is how it makes decisions; and how it will be gathered, it is not regulated. However, in the government’s explanation of a previous amendment, there is something that fits with the minister’s story, which does not fit my life, that is that the government explains the need for a third of the school board’s composition to be parents, by increasing the problem of drug abuse, alcoholism, smoking and the impact of sects on the student population, which requires increasing the role of parents, and through the advice of parents, and through their equal number compared to the other two structures of the school board. My sons are no longer for elementary school or high school, but if I had a child who goes to elementary school, I would really worry about the government's representatives saying that I have to go to school and worry that he doesn't fall under the influence of sects, drugs, alcoholism. We teach this child, sometimes 6.5 years old, most often since 7, to the state and teachers, teachers, psychologists, school principals, school board. We don't have any influence here anymore, and especially not the dominant influence to stop the sects from entering the school, the drug abuse, the alcoholism from entering. It's like washing my hands, it's like running away from responsibility. The full responsibility of the school, and who is the founder of the school - the Republic of Serbia; who in the Republic of Serbia cares about both money and education - the Government of the Republic of Serbia; the full responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is for every single case of drug abuse in primary schools, for every single case when a child has fallen under the influence of the sect and even when there are unwanted tragic consequences, that children are killed. There is no responsibility for parents, nor is there an opportunity for parents to influence them. I would ask you, Mr. Shabic, that MPs who judge herenationalism black, caution that they honor the dignity of the National Assembly. There is nothing more beautiful than nationalism and I ask all the People's MPs that the people they belong to love, that the rest of them respect and live together in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21133	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and ask the MPs to approach the vote. For 21, against 85, the abstentions were not voted 37, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21134	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we expected the promoter to finally pass one Serbian law, a law in which all ethnic groups would have the same rights. We also expected this law to be based on democratic principles. However, as could have been expected, this did not happen. The law is completely unprepared and therefore there are so many amendments, which are adopted or rejected. Most of them are rejected for some principled reasons, which our descendants will evaluate, but our ancestors, the special ancestors of the promoters, will be ashamed of this way and of this law, not only of the fourth and fifth generations, the chukundode and the vermin, but they will be ashamed of even the 12th, the thirteenth generation, and the fourteenth knee, and the parchupanas, and the mucus, and the cowards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21135	Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21136	The minister is talking about reform law, and I have to come to my amendment by contesting the principle at all -- how this law was written, which is why I submitted the amendment, and which is why the SRS submitted the amendment to Article 26. So, in unprepared law, Article 26, when you're so impatient, refers to the school board. It is obvious that the government, as founder, avoids responsibility and only seemingly conveys authority to local self-government, the teaching council and the advice of parents. But at the same time, that school board is unable to do anything without the minister's consent. Well, if something happens at school that doesn't fit, If you strike, then the minister will say - there, talk to the school board, talk to your parents' advice, see you teachers and teachers why your salaries are small, the government is not guilty. It's local self-government, it's the parents' fault, it's the kids' fault. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group considers that the school board here is inappropriate; therefore, there are no criteria for the selection of the school board, and the percentage relationship on the school board is not as expected; professional people should be represented in a larger number on the school board. Because that's the only way, if there's a lot of us, and there's more, like we're going to be in Vrsca tomorrow, at 15.00 hours, we can expect prosperity and society and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21137	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate come forward for a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, article 26 best shows how serious the proposal is, and it is not the Ministry of Education, although the minister said in one address - and the Serbian Government as a whole; his mandate will pass, and he will not understand that the legislator is the Government, and not the Ministry, that the Ministry is preparing a bill, so he gives it in that form to the Government, and the Government determines the proposal and delivers it to us, to the MPs. The draft law on amendments and additions to the elementary school law itself has 37 members. The government sent us 10 of its amendments to this bill and then withdrew two more amendments. Does that show enough that the government doesn't know what it's doing, what it wants in this important matter? And the MPs of the parliamentary majority gave us three minutes to explain the amendment and a total of 27 minutes to the SRS to talk about both such important laws. This shows the inconclusiveness of the promoter, and I am a member of the 26th member of the 120th existing elementary school law, in fact it best shows how much the promoter didn't know what he wanted. The advice of parents still exists, as it has existed so far. If we see what his role is, he is still advised. So, it's still one advisory body; it's erased from the existing law; then it's explained its powers, which are the same as they have been so far; and the composition of the parent's advice was the same that one parent's representative entered from every class of school; and, of course, the way the parent's advice was being arranged so far with the school's statutes. Here, of course, there should have been more than five members of the law, because the promoter was only interested in who would choose the director and how the school board would be drawn up. He absolutely wasn't interested in anything else about elementary school. Teachers, teachers, high school teachers, we as parents and students are interested in what the Serbian government has promised, which is a higher level of education, better technical equipment of schools, higher salaries and reductions, reduction of our children's programme, and the government has promised that it will be at least 30%. Since he doesn't deal with such important, crucial things, he does some formal things.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21139	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 15, against 89, the abstentions were not voted 59, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Ispanovich Istvan. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 115, the three abstentions, were not voted 45, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 194, there are no abstentions, did not vote 42, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21140	Dear fellow Members of the Government, I have submitted an amendment to Article 28 and suggested that this member be deleted because in the previous amendments, according to the proposals we have had, we believe that religious teaching should take place outside the school, that it has the support of the state and that it is organised in the premises of religious or rented facilities, or in the school premises given to religious communities to perform this course. We felt that the government should help religious communities through the budget to organise the teaching of religion in their facilities or in the facilities the state has at its disposal, and they can grant them to carry out religious teaching, not as in the proposal - that the state provides funds and organises it. The government replied that it rejects this amendment, or - it does not accept it because the Education Committee has given its amendment. However, the government adopted the amendment of MP Bojana Alexic to Article 28, which reads that Article 138 deletes a new position 4. The new position of the 4th of this proposal is what is set out in Article 28. - that the government is funding religious teaching. Therefore, this argument is not clear enough. Does this mean that Article 28 is changed in this section so that this proposed funding is not done in the way proposed by Article 28, but that another way will be found to finance the teaching of religion. For these reasons, I remain with this amendment, because in essence I do not see any particular change, except that one part of Article 28, which is the addition of a single word, should be retained. If that's the reason, then this amendment, which I filed on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, is meaningful and it can be accepted. I ask the Assembly to plead and support this amendment that I have submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21141	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21142	We have an amendment to Article 28, so we want to regulate something from Article 138. The law, but on the occasion of this Article 28th, raises the question, since the Ministry of Education now assumes the obligation to provide the traditional church and the religious community with a gross compensation at the time of the teachers of religious teaching, why it is not further regulated who will determine the height of the fees and how the compensation will be paid. What is the church now, which we have granted the right, and we have taken the obligation to provide it with a religious education in elementary school? What is this church for the Government of the Republic of Serbia now, for the Minister of Education? Is it now some institution that additionally educates children, so it is a legal person who has a giro-account, who will determine the price of his gross hour, or will the Ministry of Education prescribe the gross hour of teachers of religious teaching. We haven't had it in the school system so far, we didn't know what the price of a single teacher's gross hours not working at school was, but was sent by another firm, another legal person to teach, which the school will pay in particular. When I say school, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia and I mean the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why isn't it specified, such as criminal provisions in monetary terms, why didn't the promoter tell us here how much time religious teaching is going to cost the state in gross amount? How will the gross compensation of a religious teacher be paid? Is he going to make a deal? I think that the system is now being applied under the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the problem of paying compensation for the services provided has arisen. As the government will regulate, I will not appoint a church, with any church of relations, because the church gives a teacher, and the government needs to pay for a favor. Will that service go to the church's jury account in gross? Will he enter the retirement foundation of a priest who teaches religious teaching? Will they enter the retirement foundation of all the priests who belong to that church, whether they teach or not? The bill promoter did not end up getting into all the problems that will arise on the day of application of this law, and judging by the haste, I know that the day is "d" the enrolment of students in the first grade of primary school, but on the day you enroll students, it means September 1st or 2nd, the students will start attending religious classes. Will all of this be regulated by sublaws and can it be regulated by sublaws?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21143	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Bojana Aleksic, authorised representative of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21144	Given that an amendment has been submitted to this member of the DSS parliamentary group, which the government has accepted, let me just try to make one clarification. The initial proposal, put forward by the government, states in recital 3 that the Ministry of Education provides the traditional church and the religious community with a gross fee at the time of the teachers of religious teaching. The Democratic Party of Serbia's amendment went in the direction that this money was not paid to the church, but to be paid to teachers of religious science directly, which is only logical, because religious teachers would be in a different position than all other teachers. I don't think there should be any confusion here, and I don't see why there's any confusion. The government has accepted this amendment, the Education Committee has also accepted, and I think the solution is only logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21145	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 15, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 47, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic submitted together to the 28th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants withdraw this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. In the sense of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 28. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, a representative of the Proposer agreed with this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21146	In my amendment, I proposed to the National Assembly that Article 28 be deleted in relation to Article 138 of the basic law, paragraphs 6 and 7. For the sake of the public, I will quote these two points in Article 138. The law. They say "If municipalities can't provide full resources for the transport of students, part of the means of transport can also be provided by students' parents. The decision on the level of participation of parents in the provision of funds for the transport of pupils is made by municipalities." I suggested that these two statutes from the Law be deleted, i.e. that the municipality should fully fund the transportation of students who travel more than 4 km to their school. The government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Minister of Education and Sports, responded that my amendment cannot be accepted "for the reason this issue will be settled as part of the reform of education, the next amendments to the law". This government response didn't surprise me at all. In the reform of primary, secondary and higher education, we will have to wait for what we have been working on for four days to be just one mere legalisation of previous government regulations, in particular the Regulation on the introduction of religion into schools. It is already clear to the sparrows on the branch that there is nothing in all segments of this society, that all this halabuka around so-called reform processes is an empty story and there is no effect in real life, or I could say even better that these effects are catastrophic. However, the government's rejection of the amendment raises the issue of morality and ethics. I'm going to list a few common facts, and then I'm going to ask the government a question. First, it is known that the amendments to the tax system and the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government of Municipalities, i.e. to local self-government, have given high authority in the handling of financial resources, i.e. in the fiscal sphere. Almost all municipalities, I warn you of this fact, in Serbia's territory have doubled their budgets this year compared to 2001. So there are so many attacks from the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, I hope you agree with me that these financial resources that fill the municipal budgets of those same parents who will have to pay for the transport of their children to school. Those parents are taxpayers, and that's where we agree. I see we all agree. Then we certainly agree that this country has peeled these same parents' skin off with various taxes, taxes, taxes, electricity prices, communals, etc. (President: Time.) I'm done. Many of these parents lost their jobs, thanks to these reform moves in the economy. Finally, I am convinced that we will agree on a fourth, irrefutable fact that the heads of DOS municipalities in power three, four, five times increased their incomes compared to the average salary in those municipalities. If all these facts, then I'm going to tell you something about time, we're going to consider and if all of this is known, I'm asking the government: how is the government not ashamed to refuse such an amendment? The Serbian Radical Party insists that municipalities, i.e. local self-government, 100 per cent cover the costs of carrying students, who travel more than 4 km to their school, from municipal budget funds. We'll have some more time tomorrow at the Serbian Radical Party rally in Vrsac. I call upon the citizens to hear, to explain this more widely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21147	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? The word is by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21148	For several reasons, the government should have accepted this amendment. First, the number of students traveling over four kilometers is drastically reduced. Unfortunately, such funds are getting smaller and would not have a significant impact on the budget at all, how much of the important impact the government has not shown will be needed, and I will point to that. The second reason is that this last attitude can no longer be interpreted under the Law on local self-government. Namely, if the municipality cannot provide enough means to transport students who travel over four kilometers, it is the 1994 law, parents, to God, can participate, as if they would not participate, not to send their child to school, but to participate. Now the government generously approves that they can pay their children's tickets if the municipality can't pay for it. The last attitude says, "The decision on this is made by the municipality." The question is, what are more municipalities, is it a congregation of municipalities or is it the president of the municipality? You know that now that this information is shared, jurisdiction is shared. The question arises who would now make the decision, who is now the one who as a municipality makes the decision on whether there are enough funds in the budget for the transport of pupils. Let me remind you that the promoter here has failed to point out the billions of dinars that will be needed this year to enforce this law. The promoter introduced us only to the amount of funds that will be needed to enroll in the first grade of primary school, to talk about religious teaching, and to enroll in the second grade of primary school of those who have already attended, probably in the first grade, religious teaching. However, Article 10 is clear: "Parents, or guardians of students when enrolling in the first and each subsequent class, have the right and obligation to decide that the student attends religious classes... What happens if the parent of a seventh - grade student decides that his son attends religious teaching? Where are the funds for eight primary school classes and four high school classes for religious education? I would understand that if the promoter had said - children are enrolled in the first grade of elementary school in religious school, they are enrolled in the first and second, those there in the first, second and third classes, that they have some continuity in education. But at the moment the law enters into force, in September of the month, children are enrolled in 12 years, eight grades of primary school and four classes of high school, without teaching or teaching. It's also likely that someone in the fourth grade will be enrolling in a religious class to start from zero, from the first grade of primary school. But it's a huge asset. Just imagine when religious teachers run away (I still don't know how to call them different, whether to tell the priests, it might be persons qualified in some courses, seminars, I don't know how it's going to be) in schools, by classes, and all of this will require additional funds. And here the government won't regulate, there may not be 500 students traveling more than four kilometers across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21149	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 75, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 173 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 33 of Section 2. Let me get to know you, Section 2 reads, "The school board will elect a school director within two months of the day of its constitution." Otherwise, the SRS is against the establishment of such school boards, which are proposed at this parity three plus three plus three, which you want to avoid that principle, as stated by the minister, centralism, politicisation and low level of democratisation; and in fact, it is a return to reverse and self-management into school education. According to the SRS, the head of the school, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must appoint a minister of education and sports on the basis of a public competition and upon obtaining the opinion of the local self-government assembly on whose territory the school is located. The government of the Republic of Serbia here, although the founder, has denied its rights to governance. Another question is asked - if you are already going to transfer these powers, why are they not transferred to a classroom that works in elementary schools? Since I have time, I would like to remind the minister that he has stated that he advocates that teaching plans and programmes are being organised in schools and universities in Kosovo and Metohija and that they are being implemented under the Government of Serbia programme, if I understand you very well, Mr. Minister. However, if what you say is true, then I would ask you to stop your assistants, your deputies, from walking around Kosovo and Metohija and to convince school directors to accept some alleged UNMIK educational applications. Such UNMIK education applications are one colourful lie for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because UNMIK's education does not exist. UNMIK, to remind you, is a police formation, which was meant to ensure order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija, and we see how it managed to do so. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are seeking to learn from the government of Serbia's programmes. I hope that the Ministry of Education and Sports will be able to ensure that they attend and work on the curriculum and programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming school year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21151	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic, before I give you my word, just to inform the Parliament, not by the Rules of Procedure, but by the usual time of the break, we should stop working at 14 hours. However, we will take a break later, since only a few amendments remain, we will end the search in particular. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will be really hard to explain throughout Serbia why DOS did not vote that all students who have long traveled have paid transportation, that is why 18 cards of some who, to God, did not vote and who had no significant influence, and who were not definitely present in the hall, have accepted a positive amendment, which most of those present in the Assembly expressed positively. To remind you that the laws are passed by the majority of the votes of the MPs present. Absurd, which is to be noted in Article 33 and his disagreement with Article 27, or Article 122a of the Law, I will try to explain to you, by showing how little attention you have paid to the quality of the bill when you have submitted the law to the National Assembly. Article 33(1): "The school will agree its organisation and work within a month of the date of entry into force of this law". Article 122, under the terms of the school secretary, says that the administrative, normative and other legal tasks at the school are carried out by the secretary and can carry out these tasks with an appropriate high level of expertise and a professional examination. Within a month of the date of adoption of this law, the school will have to comply with the amendments and additions of this law, which will be done by the school secretary, of which 15% does not have a law school at all, there is no law school or university. The question arises when the school is finished, what will be the job of that secretary you choose within two or three months of the day of entry into force of this law. The school had to normally do this before he came to work to fully adapt his acts to the law, and then he'd type up some solutions; it could have been done by the old secretary, as until then; we're talking about small schools, small environments, where you can't provide an expert chamber. Many MPs are aware of that. We don't all come here from big cities, people from small towns come here, where even the secretary of the municipality can't afford someone to come into the community, and here, I see by the suggestions, you make up 2,000 municipalities. Who will come to be the secretary of the municipality, let alone the secretary of a primary school in such a municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21153	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. In that case, I put the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic submitted to the amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Bojana Alexic, a representative of the applicants of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21154	The DSS parliamentary group submitted this amendment concerning the selection of the school's director, and this member of the law provides that the school boards should be elected by the school director within two months of the adoption of this law. Our amendment was to make the election immediately, two months after the adoption of this law, but not until the beginning of September, or the beginning of the new school year, so that the last days of the school year would not be a mess again in schools and an emergency. It was usually followed over the past year and a half by the selection of directors, and we thought it was much more celery for children first of all to end the school year in peace, and the new directors came from the beginning of the new school year. As the timing itself coincides with this amendment, because the law entered the procedure significantly later than we had predicted, I urge the government to possibly perform some harmonisation in that sense and I hope that it will be in practice, or that the new directors will arrive on September 1st, because from now on until the end of the school year we have about two months here. For all that, we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21155	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. Anybody else answer for a word? I find the amendment has been withdrawn and thus ceases to be the subject of a particular search. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21156	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has also submitted an amendment to article 35, and that may not seem very important to you, but I think it is. Why does it matter? It's about the position of the school secretary. Article 35 of the Law states that the secretaries of the school with existing professional training can perform the post by 2003 or 2004, and then, if they do not attend school, they go to the employment office. It's simple and simple to write those sentences, drive people out of work, not create conditions for them, not give them any chance. That they're younger people, that they're people who have the strength to finish that school in this period; but they're not. And all these years they've been running a school organization, working in the interest of school, escorting generations of students to further schooling. Everything is simple and simple for you. Leave one 500 to 1,000 people without a job and no one at all. We therefore propose that "the school staff who has been in employment until the day of entry into force of this law carried out the duties of the school secretary and does not meet the conditions regarding the degree of professional training and is ten years old until retirement, retains the existing status". This is also possible, it's fair and fair to the employee. If all previous years have been trained to do so, if there is no objection to his work, there are other conditions under the law that should be implemented, and that is above all, if he does not carry out his work obligations, if he does not carry out his work unqualityly and unprofessionally. But if all this works well, if it qualified him, if he learned it well to do and if this expert preparation has been appropriate so far, then it is really human and fair for these people to be able to do it properly until the end of their retirement period. The SPS is in favour of that principle right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21157	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21158	Mr. Sabic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have not disturbed me in your intention or confused me, and I thank you for your support that I go out to the pay phone. Let me, in the capacity of indeed deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group in this House, strongly support my colleague Dragan Tomic's amendment, he spoke and explained the details himself, and what I want to say is about the government's response. I'll put it in context, Mr. Prime Minister, what I've been saying about Articles 20 and 24, this is now about Article 35, which is, in my opinion, the absence of the government's or the Ministry's hearing, or you personally, with or without an apology, for another dimension of things. In response, you called for a formal-legal absecction, which will not be questioned, you advocate and we advocate the employment of young people, etc., but do not worry about the fate of the people who are working now, who in this way will lose their jobs and without a chance to attend school and stay working, we think it is not correct, it is not moral, it is not ethical, it is not political, it is not human. These are the reasons why I propose to the MPs of other political couples to accept this amendment and support people who are retired so that they can be educated, not go to the streets. I want to say one more thing, Mr. Prince, I fully respect your three-d. If we stand for the Constitution, which you called for yesterday in one case, which we argued whether it stands or does not stand, you did not want to answer, and I say it does not stand. I'll give you an example from a small municipality called Medvedja, which is placed in the context of democratisation, depolitisation, etc., about what you haven't accepted our amendment regarding the selection of school boards, so let me confirm...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21159	Mr. Pavlovic, please stick to Mr. Tomic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21160	Yes, this is the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21161	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21162	Well, as boss, I've got 30 seconds left. I just want to give an example, and it won't bother anyone; let it be known that the claim that there is no politicisation does not stand; because, for example, in the school board of the Technical School in Medvedja, if you didn't know, the president of the school board of the NS, the president of the Municipal Committee of Social Democracy, President...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21163	Mr. Pavlovic, please talk about the amendment that made you answer your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21164	... The municipal board of the Democratic Party, the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the Movement for Democratic Serbia and the president of New Democracy. So, all political party officials. Don't stand there. (President: Time, Mr. Pavlovic. I thank you. Of course, please accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-25-0.u21165	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Let me just say that I will not talk about this amendment. I thank Mr. Nikolic. I am voting on amendments from MP Dragan Tomic. For 44, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular and the amendment decision, I ask the Proposer's representative if he wants the final word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the elementary school law in general. For 107, against 60, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the elementary school law. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking a break and we'll continue at 3:30. I ask the MPs who are members of the Legislative Committee to hold a session immediately at the break. [[After break - 15.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to official record, we have no quorum, yet I urge you to try to apply the electronic system to determine if we have a quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a break. The National Assembly will continue its work at 10.00 p.m. on 8 May.
