ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18386	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable observers, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. The latest amendments to the Law on Court Taxes date back to April 1997, when the tax rate was last changed. The current newing of the law on the agenda of this esteemed home proposes the harmonisation of court fees with changed economic opportunities, i.e. with a rise in earnings, with a rise in prices over the past five years, as well as with other factors affecting the costs of the work of courts. I remind you that the court fee in its nature represents a fee for the court's labour costs in taking certain court actions. The court tax is the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which finance the work of judicial authorities. The adoption of the budget law has practically adopted an idea which is contained in the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. For the first time in Serbia's budget, a separate judicial or judicial budget is practically formed. Therefore, the money will not be poured into the account of the Justice Ministry, but on a special concept from which, according to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 50% of the revenues realised by the collection of court fees will be returned to the judiciary for improving the work of the judiciary, for improving the material position of judicial holders and other judicial employees, for material costs, for special fees. Therefore, the bill is in direct proportion to the desire to affirm the free and independent judiciary, in direct correlation with the desire to improve the material position of judicial holders. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes provides for an increase in fees paid in court tax marks, the establishment of new lower limits of the case of a dispute on which the basis for the calculation of the court fee is established and the new amounts of court fees payable for certain actions in certain court proceedings are established. In order to determine the new amount of the tax tariff and the tax liability, the real value of the amounts provided for in the applicable tax tariff was entered into force at the time the fee was charged, i.e. in 1997, and the need to preserve the real value of the taxi. In doing so, it also sought not to question the exercise of the right to judicial protection. I must say that by raising the court fees, we raise the level of justice, we raise the respect of Serbian citizens towards the judiciary. We can't degrade and devalue the judiciary indefinitely. We need to get out of some of our mental ways, habits, and parameters. You can't have litigation for everything and everything. It belongs to a former time; it belongs to the past. It's a relapse of the past. This, among other things, is marred by the raising of court fees. There will be disputes that really need to be fought, and they have to be guided. Accordingly, it is also proposed to increase the court fees, which vary depending on whether the case is conducted before the court of general jurisdiction or before a specialised court, as well as the kind of legal matter within which the relevant judicial action is taken. To make a few parallels, since the midwives have already appeared here, those who care about the social structure and the social threat of Serbian citizens, who have led them to the beggar stick by their authority, are therefore worried that the social structure will now be disturbed and threatened by the increase in court fees. It doesn't matter. Why? In April 1997, when the current tax tariff was adopted, the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia were 707 dinars, and the ratio of dinars and stamps was 3.8 dinars for one mark. The average earnings in Serbia in December 2001 were around 12,100 dinars, with one mark worth 30 dinars. Thus, the average earnings increased by about 17 times nominal and the dinar ratio by 8 times. Why do I say that - for the simple reason that the average increase in taxis that are proposed by this law is about five times. So it's far below the nominal profit increase, well below the dinar-mark ratio. According to the current tax rate, the average revenue from the court fees is now around 77 million dinars, and according to the bill should be around 393 million dinars per month. For example, in outsider things, taxes increase threefold, in cases left fivefold, in working disputes fourfold, in land-booked things fourfold, in litigation depending on the value of the object of the dispute. So it's about one alignment. What I'm saying is that the level of the 1997 tax rate is not reached by this bill, even below that level. But the paper is so much that there won't be any mysteries now, but directly 50% of the revenues made by the court's fees will go to improve the judiciary. If you have carefully read the Budget Law, it is already adopted by the Budget Law and is forming a practically separate judicial, i.e. judicial budget, which will be elaborated in more detail by a law on the budgetary system which is on the agenda after this item of the agenda. So if you want to raise the level of justice, if you want the judiciary to really be free and independent, there is no free and independent judiciary if the people who need to inform the delicate work are materially unsecured. Only a materially secure man can truly be free and independent. So whoever is for the free and independent judiciary will vote in favour of the draft law on court fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18387	I thank Mr. Secretary. The river has Bozidar Vucurovic, the right to replicate the presentation of Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I asked for the right to reply and I didn't get it. I asked for the reason why Minister Bozidar Djelic completely misread my presentation. I didn't say that German goods will come for the money, for which the state of Serbia will give a guarantee. I said the German goods are gone. If the goods were German, that would be fine. I said that German companies would get money to buy Russian, Czech, French and Croatian goods, that these companies would normally charge their margin and thus lose positive credit effects. So it's not German goods, it's German companies. If that weren't the case, we'd have a contract in front of us yesterday, and we'd see from it where that money would go. Since we don't have a contract, it's absolutely clear that this money should go to German firms. If that money went to the EPS, if that money bought what it needed, then that would be fine. Then the positive effects of freeing interest and not losing it. And there's one more thing to tell you -- it's that poor country and that poor parliament where poetry is punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18389	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18390	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Taxes, because the bill is fully in line with the new laws on organisation, that is, the regulation of courts, and the objections that we have adopted during the debate on this draft law in October, when it was withdrawn from the agenda, were put in place. We think that this bill can fully fulfill the purpose that the court tax itself has, which is that it is a compensation for the work of the courts. There are also some side effects that court fees have, which is that court fees can regulate the burden, i.e. the congestion of courts with cases that regulate the level of court employment, and, of course, the degree of protection of citizens from courts. If the court fees are very low, the degree of that protection, regardless of what everyone will be able to seek and protect their rights against courts, will be completely inadequate, because the courts will be ineffective, buried and the quality of the judgments themselves will be insufficient for the citizens. If the court fees are high, we come to the opposite position where citizens will not be able to protect their rights through the court and where the possibility is opened that these rights will try to protect them otherwise, or that these rights do not protect themselves and thus open up the possibility for those who are immorally and against the law to only get more reasons for it, because they cannot be sanctioned for such behaviour. That is why we considered first of all that court fees must be directed to the good works in those springs and to those courts where these fees occur, or where they are paid. With this bill, which is in line with the Law on Court Orders, first and foremost the court fees go to raise the quality of the work of courts, for the improvement and efficiency of the work of courts. It is something that is the purpose of a taxi and it is not a negligible figure -- as Minister Batic mentioned, it will be about 400 million dinars a month. If this is properly channeled into the courts themselves, we believe that it can significantly improve the quality and efficiency of the work of the courts. The DSS will support this proposal because some of the fees provided for by the previous bill have now been reduced, so that at the level that we believe is in line with the standard of living of the Serbian citizens at the moment. Also, the observations that these fees are both real and nominal, (nominally, but realistically... ) larger than those taxis that were in 1997, when the last tax increase, absolutely do not stand. It is enough to look at the average profit then and now, which is the height of the taxi and to see that these stories about the special policy of the court taxis absolutely do not stand and that this is one policy that can provide the level of the court taxis adequately protect our citizens from the court and that these courts work more efficiently for two reasons - firstly, which will not be covered by a large number of cases due to low court fees and, secondly, which will be directed directly into courts where people dispute, litigation and court. In this way, they will be stimulated to work harder and more efficiently, because more resources will remain for them. With this bill, along with some amendments, which the government has already accepted and which may accept when the amendments are discussed, we can get an adequate system of court fees, an adequate amount of court fees, which, with all those laws in the judiciary that we have adopted, will provide good legal protection for our citizens and provide and strike the foundations of the construction of the rule of law. The Democratic Party of Serbia will, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18391	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted the MPs' groups DOS, DSS, SPS, SSJ and SRS. The total number of reported is 22. First reported was the People's Messenger, George Mamula, and after that, the People's Messenger AdamUrosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18392	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, which the debate in the assembly began yesterday, the Serbian government, as a proposal, submitted on 13 November last year, after the proposal was withdrawn as of July. The proposal was submitted in the procedure 35 days before the Budget Law, which was adopted at the end of the year. The judicial department, based on court fees as fiscal income, envisions two billion dinars. This judicial and whole budget is calculated on the basis of a depressed dinar course that is stable and has external support; there has been a major inflow of foreign reserves. However, this rate of dinar is not marketable, which should be taken into account when considering the height of the court taxis. When the dinar is a means of payment to the outside and when the euro is introduced here as a parallel currency, the situation will also be clear about the size of the dinar. Of course, that non-market rate determines all payments, which is gentlemen from G 17 plus very well known, because that's what they're pulling their current rating on. It is true that the latest cab increases were at the end of 1995, and then 1997; in 1995, following the conclusion of the Dayton Agreement, and in April 1997, when agreements were made on the sale of Telekom Srbija, which affected the inflow, and then there was, based on the collection of court fees, a charge in one volume that was used for the technical restoration of courts and their better equipment, but in larger cities, not throughout Serbia. Later there was no increase in court fees for very clear reasons: the dinar was unstable, inflation was huge. According to the 2000 estimates that we took when we wrote amendments to this law (for the sake of assessing the economic power of citizens) so, according to published data, 32% of households in Serbia did not have enough for food, 62% did not have enough for health care, 40% needed humanitarian aid, and each other family used more than 70% of its income for food. That's why it was completely understandable why there could have been an increase in court fees during that period. During that period, the average monthly salary was 95 marks and 180 marks in 2001. But in the last 15 months, there has been an inflation of 110%, which we also had in mind when we proposed amendments that are practically going to reduce the value of taxis. Let's say we have a suggestion that some taxes go up to 25,000 dinars. At that height they rather resemble tax than tax as a fiscal contribution, which is actually a cost paid on a service that citizens expect from state authorities, in this case by the court. This reduction from 25,000 to 12,500 we made because we took into account that the value of the consumer basket in December last year was 11,850 dinars, i.e. 1,47 salaries, i.e. the average value of the consumer basket in 2001 was 10,900 dinars or 2.2 average wages. So these were those criteria that we took into account, because we started from the fact that, with political rights in society, social rights must also be expressed, too, a team before no one can be denied judicial protection if they can't pay a court fee. Every citizen has the right to judicial protection, and if he cannot bear the costs, he has the right to be called upon on a poor right and, on that basis, to be exempt from court fees, if that would put his family and his family at risk. In addition to the fact that taxes must be acceptable and cannot have the character of the tax, they are also mandatory. So they're not the price, because when it comes to the price, there can be a deal around the price. The court fee is forced, but therefore it must be acceptable for a wider circle of people participating in court proceedings to be charged with the court budget. Otherwise, as with taxes, they'll be evacuated by court taxis, so they won't be able to be charged. In addition to these criteria, we assumed that the minimum wage, according to what the Serbian government has established, is 3,250 dinars, and that the average salary is 7,200 dinars or 240 marks. It was about those parameters that led us to manage when we decided to cut taxis. Since our key amendments have been accepted, we will adopt this law, and the other amendments will recommend your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18393	The People's Messenger Adam Urosevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18394	The Honorable Presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnicities, may seem to someone that I have broken the political rule and answered the word, because I am soon among you, in your ranks. But representatives of the Soviet Union will always break the political rule when it comes to the interest of the Serb people. I come from the other side of the screen, with a deep conviction that citizens across Serbia are more closely following the meeting of this high house than, unfortunately, some MPs who have delegated them, or have given them confidence to represent them in this high house. The pompous and triumphantly announced human rights changes in the judiciary obviously did not produce certain results, but only brought anxiety and fear amongst the holders of judicial functions. Now you go with the principle of warm-cold. First, lustration, purification, and now the promised salary of 1,000 marks. Will the citizens of Serbia be able to handle it? The draft law amending court fees to citizens who want to exercise their legal rights has created another impose. Multiple increases in court fees can lead to citizens, avoiding justice, attempting to exercise some of their rights outside the court, self-initiativeally, thus doing some of the criminal acts sanctioned by criminal law. A large number of citizens benefit from legal ignorance from the services of lawyers, which are not small in the legal tariff. The Honorable Minister Batic, as well as most of the lawyers here, is forgetting that they ate lawyer bread by yesterday. The increase in taxis will certainly increase and amounts for legal services, and many citizens will avoid hiring lawyers enrolled in the Bar and authorised to represent citizens before the court. Justice is said to be disputed, but available. However, if it is slow and expensive, the question is how far it will be available. Because when justice gets its price, it stops being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18395	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, followed by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18396	My fellow MPs, I will repeat once again that the DSS will adopt this law and will vote in principle, with the desire that the many amendments that our MPs have made in some way "single" the draft law on court fees. In order not to repeat what my representatives have said, I just want to express one vision, and not just my own, but the sighting of all people who wear responsible functions after 5 October in our society. We are all witnessing the need for Serbia to have an independent judiciary. We were aware of that, I suppose a good part of us, before 5 October, and all the experience in the exercise of power shows that Serbia has an interest in the existence of an independent judiciary after 5 October 2001. There is no independent judiciary unless the holders of high judicial functions are properly paid. I assume that the extra money, which will be collected from the proposed taxis of this height, will be mostly directed to improve the material position of the judicial function holders. I can imagine the situation in the courtroom, when a judge has ten times less monthly income than a lawyer or a prosecutor's representative, 10 or 15 times less than a lawyer, a rival in the process. And is that natural? Of course not. One of the indicators in which our judiciary was in, or in what state it is, is that in my town, in my municipality, the Fireman, none of the lawyers wanted to go back to the judiciary, and everyone went to law school. Why? Because the material position of the judge and the people in the prosecution is certainly much worse than what a lawyer on the market can earn. This particular tax, I suppose, introduces some order and improves the material position of the judicial authorities, which should certainly be welcomed. Without economic independence, the judges will not be the real judicial independence either. I want to mention, too, that only an increase in the amount of compensation for court fees brings some risks. First, when court fees are high and the people are poor, the consequences are severe: who has money and has to pay a fee and to exercise his right before the court; he who has no money to pay a tax cannot stand trial. He has two options -- the first possibility is to leave his right of limitations, when obsolescence is possible, and thus favours the immoral conduct of his opponent. Then high taxes simply invite immoral ones to be even worse. The other option is to take justice into his own hands, which is even more dangerous. It is evident that high court fees and how they can be dangerous for the exercise of rights, but also for the legal certainty of all of us citizens. The additional problem is certainly the inconsistencies of many regulations that contradict themselves, which objectively creates the need for litigation. Also, the particular problem is when a court fee does not contain any sanctions. Let's remind ourselves, a loser in a court dispute is costing all the court cabs. When court fees are paid to the competent court to draw up and keep the will, over the signatures, manuscripts, transcripts, enrolment in land books, application of claims in bankruptcy, discussion of the legacy, and general indisputable matters, when the court fee exclusively serves as a compensation for the work of courts, they shall not be so high. I hope that 20 DSS amendments, of which three or four have already been accepted by the competent ministry, may, to some extent, iron some extreme amounts that appear here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18397	The People's MP Stevan Kesejic has the word, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18398	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the experts of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government, who knows what time they confirm that they are real experts, kidnapping citizens and the last yolk, which fills the budget, which we SRS MPs have claimed is not real and will be filled only by citizens. The donations the DOS promised us -- it turned out to be a colorful lie. The DOS politburo systematically leads the people of Serbia to despair. The prime minister's experts are simply racing to propose and pass as many rigid laws as possible. One in a series of Harrakel laws is the law on court fees. The enormously high court fees will make it impossible for citizens to protect their rights. In the light of such high fees, the legislator is seeking a foothold in the changed economic circumstances, in terms of growth in earnings and prices that cost the work of the courts. It is indisputable that economic circumstances have changed since the five-eyed revolution, and worse; not only in the judiciary, but in all segments of life. It's never lived harder than under DOS rule today. Such a situation for the minister of justice is no problem, he promises as an expert judges 1,000 marks of earnings, not making sure who will pay for it, whether it will pay for the people of Serbia or those who were intended to be in receipt of the budget. He proposes this law and is racing with his colleague, finance minister, and their victims are the same -- Serbian citizens. When one expert skins the citizens, which the other expert would rather cut off, it hurts less. In the expert race, the justice minister has a more favourable predisposition, as it can reach its goal within several inches. The minister believes that increasing court taxis will make the court more efficient and up-to-date. These assumptions can be realistic, because the court cases will be smaller, and the courts will be more empty. If that's the government's goal, then I have the impression that it will be the first operation to happen to them and be attributed to itself as success. An enormously high fee of citizens will not be able to pay, and will be forced to settle court disputes as they know and know, outside institutions, for example, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. In this way, citizens are denied the right to protection, and courts remain without the planned funds. The law provides for an increase in court fees from 5 to 40 times compared to so far, valid amounts. If the government has backed its proposal to the economic situation, by increasing profits and calling for a proportionate increase in taxis, then it is obvious that someone here is not telling the truth. Did the profits increase by 40% compared to the previous period? They're not increased, they're even smaller. The profits are only nominally higher, but they're unscathed. They have collected basic life supplies several times, electricity, energy, etc., to the extent that hundreds of thousands of citizens are unable to pay off their obligations to the state and will not be able to pay them back almost as long as DOS is in power. We hope that the debts will be gone, and very soon the DOS will be gone. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to all members of this law, which cannot be applied. The law to be passed will lead to empty courts, and for borders, disputes, contracts, etc. They'll get rid of three witnesses, like in Broz's day. That is why the Serbian Radical Party has proposed court fees appropriate to the standard of citizens. One of the government's proposals requires young people, when divorced, to pay enormously high taxes. As a result, young ones will find it harder to make marriages, living in temporary marriages, until they establish harmony and determine whether they match each other. But the government will probably pass a new regulation that will vote: "In order to get married and divorce marriage, double the amount of tax should be paid immediately at the time of marriage." Imagine that this law came into force a few months ago, when it was withdrawn from the same proposing -- the budget would already be better charged than taxis paid for than frequent marriages of certain political factions in DOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18399	The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr Vladan Batic, a representative of the promoters on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18400	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with regard to the amendments we have received, it is clear that many MPs have not understood the value of the subject matter, and what is the tax which is determined according to that value of the dispute. People simply identified the amount of value of the disputed object with the amount of tax to be paid. That's two completely different things. Even some amendments are pointless to the extent that, if they were accepted, the tax would be less than it is under the existing law. It is often mentioned as an illustrative example, for example, divorce and so forth, and it is thought that 25,000 dinars are taxes on divorce, a lawsuit initiated by divorce; simply, it is not true. So that's the value of the object of the dispute to which the tax should be determined. This value of the dispute in the beginning was 25,000 dinars, and the amendment was halved, it was found that 12,500 dinars were the value of the subject matter of the dispute. When you're writing a complaint, the case must indicate the value of the dispute in order to determine the tax according to that value. You can say it's not worth anything, but that's why it determines what the minimum value of the object is. Let's say, for the marriage divorce lawsuits, that minimum value will be, based on this amendment that's been accepted, 12,500 dinars. How much of a divorce tax has it been so far? It was practically 650 dinars, and now it's going to be 1,500 dinars, because the law stipulates that it's over 10,000 to 100,000, a tax of 1,000 dinars plus 4% on the value of the object of the dispute. If the minimum value of the object is 12,500 dinars 4% to that is 500 dinars and the base is 1,000 dinars, it is 1,500 dinars. So, to remove these doubts and dilemmas -- the tax on divorce suit will be practically 1,500 dinars, and so far it's 650 dinars, and that's a real increase. Secondly, I have to say -- as far as parallel law is concerned -- these are the lowest taxes in this part of Europe, the lowest of all transition countries. To say also how much earnings are made by judicial officials: the lowest average earnings of judges across the region are in Macedonia, around 1,100, 1,200 marks; in Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH there are around 2,500 marks; they are about that much in Croatia; in Slovenia there are over 4,000 marks. Okay, we don't have that standard, we don't have that level, but we need to raise the level of justice. When the new government was established and started to work, the average salaries of judges in January last year were something below 200 marks. Now they're on average about 500 marks. This promise applies, among other things, to court fees, with only 20% of funds charged to judicial fees, an average salary of around 1,000 marks will be provided. I repeat, the people in the judiciary were demoralized, apathetic, depressed. This story of corruption has the same proportions in the judiciary, as in many other social activities, in education, in health, in public services, etc. So we want to motivate people and their wages. Justice is forbidden to do any other job, so people in the judiciary can't do anything but be prosecutors or judges. They can't hold classes this afternoon as teachers, they can't have a private office like doctors, dentists, etc. Therefore, it is their only source of income. To avoid hypocrisis and nepotism, these people have to be motivated and mobilized to work, so they have to make decent profits. That's why it's the motive we handled when we, among other things, set this level of court taxis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18401	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18402	Ladies and gentlemen, it is doubtless, and we agree with this, that it is necessary to amend the Law on Court Taxes, that it should be increased, given that the last amendment and addition of the Law was in 1997. It is also doubtless, and that is what we have agreed to in the previous submission of this bill (and that was last autumn, it seems to me October), that part of the court fees must go to improve the material position of the judges and for the purpose of filling the material costs of these same judges, as well as to improve the working conditions. In that sense, the views and arguments of the government and the competent ministry are fully in line with what we advocated in the autumn; after our criticisms, as you know, the bill was withdrawn and with the important advances again submitted to this assembly for adoption. Therefore, the promoter adopted our remarks that part of the court fees should be spent on salaries, i.e. improving the material position of judges and courts, which is fully acceptable within the framework and is in line with the laws of the judiciary that we have adopted. The promoter also accepted legitimate criticism and reduced some of the court fees. However, we believe that there is still room for improvement of this law, and therefore we have given amendments. Some of the amendments of the DSS parliamentary group were also accepted by the government, and the rest of us will explain when we consider the amendments and we will try to convince you that these remaining amendments need to be adopted, at least most. When we talk about court fees, I must point out that it is not a fundamental problem for the functioning of the judiciary and courts to increase court fees. It is commendable that part of the court fees will be used to increase the salary of judges that should be increased immediately, just as promised, to 1,000 marks as soon as possible. We are aware of the difficult position of the judiciary, especially the judges and prosecutors who are making extremely low wages and who are in an extremely difficult position. In that I fully agree with Mr Batic. I can't agree in any other way, in another domain, I'd say that judges and courts can't be paid only from court fees, or the means of those who seek the protection of the court. This, in normal circumstances, and in our case, should certainly be a significantly smaller part of the financial resources needed and spent on the financing of courts, as well as on the financing of the salaries of judges and public prosecutors. In my view, it is not a basic problem for the level of court fees and is not a basic source for the increase in the salary of judges and court fees, i.e. their payment in a higher or lower amount. There is a fundamental dilemma -- that with large court fees some part of it, I would say a good part, the citizens will be deprived of the opportunity to seek the protection of their rights before the court, and this is particularly about litigation. But the second, smaller part of the citizens is in such a material situation and the financial situation that taxes are not important at all. It also states that the government, or reason for the increase in taxis, is that there are people whose trial is fun and who are able, regardless of the amount and at the level of the prescribed taxis, to conduct legal proceedings out of spite or other motives. It is not a problem and the increase in tax does not solve this problem if it is available, and I consider that this is a problem that is relatively less than any court dispute that is being conducted today in Serbia's courts. So, the problem of increasing the tax to reduce the pressure on the court is problematic from one point of view, and from another point of view, a part of the citizens, who are unable to pay that court fee, can be referred to some different extra-legislative ways of resolving disputes and achieving their own, particularly monetary, claims. Here's an example for most Serbian citizens -- 100 marks or 50 euros now is 3,000 dinars and it's a big money. For a large part of the disputes, this is about the tax to be paid, approximately for the lowest disputes, because the proposal moves from 1,000 dinars for the lawsuit, and then the first-degree sentence fee, possibly the fee for the appeal and the second-degree judgment fees, which go 100%, 50%, etc., and then the amount of the fee will exceed the value of the dispute. But this isn't a basic problem. I wanted to point out that problem. (Dragisa Popovic: Then what is the problem? ) Slowly, sir, I'll explain the underlying problem and please don't throw it away. I apologize for being free to warn you. The main problem is, I'm going to cut back precisely because we have an inefficient judiciary and we use the old system, we haven't changed it, start from the political system to that judiciary; the main problem is in procedural laws, so it's possible that one slow takes 10 or 20 years, e.g. the property dispute; the basic problem is that the tax is conceived so that the prosecutor pre-pays and charges, and then the person who loses in the dispute is obliged to compensate for these costs of the dispute; the main problem is that ten years ago someone paid a fee that was 100 marks in the money at that time. It's in some dinars, which were new at the time, and now we can't even tell which dinars are, and which when translated into these dinars have zero value. The state's tax has been charged, but the prosecutor, if he succeeds in the dispute (and every prosecutor expects to succeed in the dispute), cannot possibly be charged by the opposite side, as it is precisely because of inefficient judiciary, poor procedural laws and even poor material laws, that is impossible to resolve court disputes within a reasonable time. Do you know when most of our court disputes are resolved? When everyone raises their hands out of it and simply forgets about the conflict and then, most of the time, it is resolved by withdrawing the lawsuit or withdrawing from the stand. That's what fellow lawyers know very well. So the problem is in some system laws that will put the judiciary, justice, the state on new principles and establish new relations. It's not enough to raise taxes in everything else, and everything else, except for normal system laws in the judiciary that are only one condition and beginning, we leave in the old principles and in the old way of functioning. Where are these changes? Then there's no change. The changes are necessary, and we agreed on that, and we knew that we've been criticizing all these years. The changes are to change all these fundamental, political, legal, social relations, which have failed and which have brought the state and people into this present state. Court fees are not a basic problem. We need to increase them, but that's not how we solve those basic problems, and that's cheating that we're doing something extremely valuable. I'm sorry, and this is worth it, and this is supposed to be done, but there's something much more important to do, something that I think we're still late for. I apologize for being sharper, but the throws provoked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18403	The word has Minister Vladan Batic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18404	It is not my intention to replicate, but only to remind my colleague Cvetkovic that all procedural laws are not in the jurisdiction of the republic's parliament, but in the jurisdiction of the Federal Assembly. The law on criminal proceedings, the Law on litigation, the Law on executive proceedings, means procedural laws, are passed on a federal basis, not at a republican level. The other thing, of course, isn't the whole funding of the judiciary to get out of court taxis. Following the amendment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 50% of the funds charged from the court's fees are returned to the judiciary and, of course, not all to increase the material status of judicial holders, but to a 20% orientation. We need to reconstruct, adapt, rebuild the courts' buildings, modernise the judiciary in terms of computerization and everything else. So there are a lot of things to improve the work of the judiciary, which are not just improving the material position. I must say, from these means, part of it will be used to enlarge the salaries of judicial officials. They are about 3,000 in Serbia, with 19,000 people working in Serbia's judiciary. They will continue to finance themselves from the budget, and it is good, because the budget will be partially disbursed and then they will be able to raise salaries of judicial employees at all, not just judicial officials, because there is no disproportion between judicial officials and other employees. As far as heights are concerned, you know what - the most affected are those who will lead the disputes of enormous value. They're mostly run between companies in commercial courts. So that's where you take care of the social category. Small-value disputes are low taxes, and large-value disputes are higher taxes, and that's simple logic. So those who don't have can appeal to the poor right and won't pay any taxes at all. So it's all out of print, out of print, and, I repeat again, in 1997 (the last time the tax rate was changed), the fees were more than they were today under this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18405	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18406	The government of the Republic of Serbia as a reason to submit to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes states that the law came into force on 23 April 1994, and amendments and additions were carried out on two occasions - the first time in late 1995 and the second time in April 1997. It is an indisputable fact, and we believe that court fees should be increased, but the question arises in what amount. The court fees are entirely part of the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and one of the purposes of the court's fees is that the work of the courts is financed by the court's participants; increasing the court's fee increases the participation of the taxpayers in the financing of court works. I do not dispute that the fees are part of the budget's revenue, but the question is -- if the fees rise to 10 times, who will be a participant in the court proceedings. If the draft law on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly is adopted, participants in the court proceedings will be one small number of privileged people, people with funds and who will be able to pay taxes and defend their rights before the court. So one large majority of people will not be able to exercise their rights and defend their reputation before the court. Because in such conditions as Serbian citizens, where the low-level standard is, citizens will not be able to raise funds from their personal budget to conduct court proceedings. If the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes wanted to increase the efficiency of the work of the courts by being a smaller number of court proceedings, then you're probably right. Lately, in Serbia, the public, radio, television, various stands have been very often muddled by the reputation of certain people, and people are insulted unfounded and for no reason. If a person finds that an insult has been done to her, he may bring a trial before the court, i.e. To file a private suit, and to do so, according to heading 26th point 1, a court fee of 500 dinars is paid for a private suit, unlike the previous 160 dinars. If the person wants to press charges for these reasons, which is not always the case, so he has to use legal chamber services, lawyers, it has to pay 2,400 dinars, so if the lawyer represents him at the hearing, it amounts to 2,800 dinars, in order to bring court proceedings according to a private suit, it takes 5,700 dinars, and that is almost one average profit in Serbia. Someone's gonna think or say it in public - they don't have to sue. I'd be happy if our culture were such that everyone has respect for everyone, that everyone speaks with respect to everyone, but I'm afraid there are a lot of insults, slanders and lies as a reason for court proceedings. I would also like to comment on tariff number 10, which speaks - for the proposal to implement a share of common things or property, for a decision on a motion for division, for a complaint against a decision under the proposal, as well as for a second-degree decision, is paid 1,000 dinars, instead of 200 dinars under the current law. In order to execute the deob, for example, the plots in front of the court in two parts, should be paid by the geodetic administration, and by their tariff it costs 2.550 dinars. I think an increase in the tax of 200 dinars per 1,000 is really a number that shouldn't stand, because each of us will be forced into some lifetime to execute the division of some legacy. Or, what to say about heading 11 where a proposal to regulate the border, for a decision under the proposal, for appeal against a decision under the proposal, as well as for a second-degree decision, is paid 1,000 instead of 300 dinars under the current law. This is a great burden if it is taken into account that the applicable procedure on border arrangements cannot be carried out without the geodetic administration, and in their tariff it amounts to 1,700 dinars, and that I do not list the services of lawyers, hearings and everything else. Finally, it should be said that it is not true that the new law proposes a proportionate increase in tax, i.e. the harmonisation of taxes with changed economic circumstances, with the growth of earnings and prices, as well as with other factors that have a significant impact on the accumulation of court work. Economic circumstances have changed, but in a negative sense. Profits have been nominally increased, but their real value has dropped, which has a significant impact on citizens' standards. Paying such court fees for citizens would be a great burden, so in this sense the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will not support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18407	The word has a folk MP Dusan Budishin, followed by Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18408	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the Democratic Party of Serbia has known, had its position on the initial proposal of the same law. Two things were important at the time that we did not support the law and, fortunately, it was withdrawn from the procedure. Fortunately, because in our opinion he had shortcomings that could, so harshly, only list two of the most important. The first is that he's a member of 78. The law on the regulation of courts has been decoded that the Republic of Serbia's budget particularly shows revenues from the work of courts, including court fees. These particularly demonstrated revenues are directed towards building judicial facilities, investment maintenance of buildings, supply of equipment, material costs, settlement of housing issues and professional training. So this time we have a new quality, a judgment fee, and, noticeably, this time they are used to improve the work of the judiciary, but there is a tangible link between judicial fees and courts and other judicial authorities. That's one thing. The second thing is that we had big objections to the amount itself, which is very sensitive, because the amounts contained in the original proposal, (and now they are less fortunate), were indeed such that they absolutely did not correspond to the payment option of the citizens. It is one of the circumstances that we simply need to pay attention to and what we need to take care of. It has been said several times, but it has to happen again - if you are given certains enormously high, citizens will come into a situation that simply won't be able to exercise their right to court. That's what can't be allowed. However, it has been mentioned in previous statements that there is a court tax exemption institute based on the belief of property, as popularly said in the people - poor confidence, however, I must point to the fact that our courts, in particular lately, rarely allow this right and rarely reach for that possibility, so that a certain number of citizens are really put in an unfavourable position. The second thing is that the court fees go into the cost of the dispute, therefore, by the fact that the costs in the case are borne by the party that has fallen into the dispute, so that party that lost it, it has one kind of sanctions, so it has to pay those costs. That's what it looks like if you're talking about the ex-academia. In practice, it's a little different. First, very often it happens that you can't charge that cost, and on the other hand it often happens, and that's why you have to keep an eye on the heights, so you simply don't pay. I'll remind you, in that case, if the tax is not paid, the income management goes, so the municipalities carry out the execution, the forced payment of these taxis, and that fee goes very slowly, hard and the court won't be able to benefit much from it. That circumstance is also very important, because it's not just about judges' salaries. A little bit of what Mr. Minister said -- it's a huge machine in courts, these people are doing a very responsible and very difficult job, and they're really miserable and miserablely paid. So, like the holders of judicial functions, these people absolutely have to raise their salaries, if for nothing else, because they're doing one very responsible job. We sometimes have disputes, which is also pointed out, that they are driven for chic reasons, that they are unnecessary, and that is a very common case. However, there are cases where the dispute really has to be filed and there is now very difficult to find the right measure. The Democratic Party of Serbia's amendments are currently moving in that direction, in an attempt to find a balance between these needs and the real payment opportunities of citizens, as well as given the type of dispute being conducted. Some disputes are more common, they stretch precisely because of necessity, and some are rarer. Each of these amendments has a logical trail of events; namely, they are orderly that if they went one line, then those lines stick to the end and that's why it's personally a little unclear to me why some of these amendments are adopted and some of them are not, although they are in a strict, close relationship and it's very difficult to separate one of them without having a solid continent. We are in danger, and we talked about it the last time, if we were to go too far with these values, (although we don't have some big objections here, except for those highlighted by the amendments) and there's a possibility that someone might not exercise their right. It's old-fashioned, which is less dangerous, because rightly there's an institute called "depreciation of obsolescence," therefore, it can be kind of jumpy. It's far more dangerous when a man comes to the brink of hopelessness, and we know very well what it looks like, and then he takes justice into his own hands and thus tries to use various agencies (and unfortunately we saw it in practice) to collect his debts, and it should also be avoided. To conclude - the DSS will, of course, support this law for two main reasons, but will persist in its amendments, which, according to us, will, if adopted, give the law one quite acceptable measure to find the right balance between needs and what they really must and should bear citizens, or their payment opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18409	Thank you. The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18410	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union is well-known that the state is living on various taxes and other taxes from citizens. One type of tax and tax are also court fees, and today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. Mr. Minister, no one is saying that our judiciary is well-being, I mean finance first of all, but increasing these taxis certainly can't improve the efficiency of the work of the judicial authorities. The government of the Republic of Serbia is enormously increasing its fees -- some 100%, some 200%, some 300%, and has 400%, and even more than that, up to 70 times. The Soviet Parliament Group wonders - should this be the way to secure the salaries of 1,000 German marks per month, which you promised the judges? We know that people are mostly tried for property, and in the first place, peasants. There is a very high value of the dispute, so the taxes reach a height of 15,000, 25,000, 50,000 dinars, and more than that, all depending on the value of the dispute. There are cases that taxes are higher than claims that citizens will make with judicial authorities. That's why our people say, "A greater gift than a measure." Due to high taxis, citizens will not be allowed to seek even the exception of judges, the President of the Greater Court or the Court of Justice, and the divorce of marriage and not to speak, which is a very common phenomenon in our judiciary; and not to mention further, there are many such cases. I would once again take advantage of the opportunity to ask Mr. Minister one question - upon coming to power and also in the election campaign, the question of the denationalisation law is very potent. Now I see that all the other laws are a hindrance - the Law on Taxation of Citizens, and even the Law on Local Self-Government, which we recently adopted, and it will only apply after regular elections, and that all of you claim the elections will not be in three years. So, I think the Denationalisation Act should have found a place before these laws. And finally, regarding this, given that citizens have already been burdened with various duties, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not and cannot accept this proposal, because the adoption of such a bill would bring citizens into an even more difficult material position, so they would have to give up disputes that require their rights through the court, because, as I have already said, fees will happen beyond the value of the dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18411	The People's Messenger Arsen the Qur'an has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18412	Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, in the light of the adoption of this bill, the ministry has stated that the relative increase in taxes is in line with the changed economic circumstances. There is a growth in profits on the one hand, and a rise in prices and costs, on the other hand. Every one of us knows that all these years, cost increases have been drastically higher than profit growth. Obviously, therefore, the proposer acted primarily after an increase in costs. There's been almost an enormous increase in traffic violations. The citizens did not protest much because of these drastic increases, they followed the logic: whoever commits the offence should also pay for it, and whoever does not make it will not have the costs. However, we cannot apply such thinking on all court fees. For what reason? Well, people are very often, beyond their will (so they do not insist on it and do not every time cause the need to pay a fee) forced to participate in court proceedings - e.g. legacy, gifts, various beliefs, which we need, which we seek, the destruction of the property community, etc. Or they are simply forced to seek judicial protection, because someone else has denied them their right and they are the only way to realize it. So, I believe that this increase in the amount has not reached that balance between the needs of the Ministry, i.e. the material costs of the judiciary, and the need of citizens for judicial protection. It is simply, as already said here, that the material position of the judiciary, which is really bad, cannot be fixed only in this way. But we heard from Mr. Secretary that it wasn't planned. Therefore, the amendments and additions of this law apply exclusively to the material side. The promoter, according to us, did not take the opportunity to improve the basic text of this law. Apparently, there was no hearing, or time, for court practice and problems that arise in courts when determining and charging these court fees. I'll just say a few examples. For example, the great problems with the judges who do the leftovers, and of course to the citizens who participate, represent the provisions of the law that the exemption from payment of the tax can only be allowed to the real unemployed or those who do not have property, in terms of the leftovers. The question is, what about hundreds of thousands of people who are fictitiously employed, who are on so-called forced vacations, and are in fact without any income? At the moment when the court adopts a settlement on inheritance, which is a practice, it is then considered that the party has the property, and judges do not release those heirs from the fees that follow them. This has already been confirmed in practice and presents a major problem. So, we're getting into a situation where an heir who doesn't have any other income, and he's being treated as an employee, he's technically employed, he needs to sell that property so he can pay a court fee. It's a problem that arises and is very difficult to solve. Also, an example from economic courts, i.e. current trade courts: it often happens that, in order to avoid paying a fee on that higher tariff for commercial courts, some natural persons who have no basis for doing so appear as prosecutors. These same ones are later withdrawn during the process, but in the beginning this lower tax was already paid, according to the General Court's tariff. So, the promoter missed the chance to inspect this law this time and thus improve it, in all those parts where it has proved to be missing through practice. It is clear that the ministry's attention has been concentrated exclusively on increased collection of funding, which we should not have seen as the sole objective of these changes, when it has already been approached by amendments and additions to this law. If this proposal gets principled support, we will try to make it a little more appropriate for the amendments, which have not yet been adopted, this present time and the general situation and bring it a little closer to this everyday practice that has not been taken into account this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18413	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not support or vote in favour of this law, in which an increase in taxis goes to such an extent that the poorest layers of our citizens in Serbia cannot bear them, taking into account, above all, the fact that many disputes take place between three and 15 and 20 years. Imagine a dispute, with the value of 100,000 dinars, if it's been going for 15 years and if you have to pay a fee on a lawsuit, a fee on a lawsuit, a fee on a complaint, a tax on numerous solutions, an art in some property disputes. All of this can lead to the fact that whoever initiated the litigation or out-of-party procedure will not be able to collect the claim he had. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as assessed by the SRS and mine, since I know the parallel right in other countries, I estimate that England, as a cradle of independence of the judiciary, has a total of 1,630 judges at all levels. Minister Batic presented information today that we in Serbia today have about 3,000 judges, that we have a large number, although he did not mention, professional associates and that he has a total of 19 000 employees in the judiciary. In a close relationship, the position of the judiciary is with the number of judges and with the number of judicial employees. Why do we need 3,000 judges? Why don't we have an effective judiciary? Why does he care about judicial reform? I welcomed the efforts of many to go to judicial reform. The reform of the judiciary does not mean that the job has been completed, Jeredos promised in a pre-election campaign and since coming to power to this day he has announced countless changes to be made in the judiciary. I don't care about that. The number of judges in this country must be reduced and the request of the Supreme Court, the justice ministry and the government, according to Serbian radicals, must be such that those who are unable to respond to the judge's task, as privileges in society, cannot do the job. In this direction, an inspection should be carried out, from the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, across all levels of the courts, and there should be as much data as the judge today has received in his work, how many decisions have been lifted, how many decisions he has been made and returned to retrial, to see who is doing justice today. It is certainly a good initiative of the promoters, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, to increase the salaries of judges, but not only the judge, but also those 19,000 employees in the judiciary, because they do one responsible job and participate in the work of the judiciary, if we want our judiciary to be as effective as possible. We are witnessing that there are hundreds of thousands of pending cases in Serbia today, that litigation is being handled dramatically for a long time. In this direction, Serbian radicals believe it is necessary to pass a new law on litigation, to shorten the litigation process, to pass a law on non-partisan procedure, and to limit the time of conduct of a litigation and out-of-party procedure. But, as Minister Batic said, it is not within the jurisdiction of the republic's parliament, but DOS must insist on and initiate an initiative to pass a new law by operating procedure, that the case cannot last for years. A capable judge, if he's finished law school with an eight, a nine and a ten, won't be running the case for 10-15 years. Even some of them retire and remain in the legacy of a colleague's particular case. Who can't judge the most difficult case in a year, that's not for a judge. As a result, the law must be adopted in an operational procedure. We're about to raise the salaries to the judges, but I'm also pointing out -- the SRS understood and heard several times, a year ago, that the judges would get 1,000 marks immediately. Why haven't those 1,000 marks been won by the judges by now? There's one more thing - these court fees could have been charged, because many are not charged today. That's one thing. And the other thing is, by increasing the court fees, we won't achieve efficiency, because many won't even be able to come to court. We protect the poorest layers of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18415	The word has Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with the honourable MP, Mr Petar Jojic, who has just confirmed the main guidelines, initiatives and strategies of the Ministry of Justice. It is the only reason why the Law on Court Taxes is not accepted, but, of course, the level of taxis and the burden of the citizens you mention can be an adequate argument why the law will not be supported by SRS MPs. That's quite correct. I just want to repeat once again - the procedural laws are not in the jurisdiction of the republic but of the federal parliament. What you're talking about -- what kind of justice we have, what kind of justice bearers we have, with one small correction -- is not the unfulfilled 3,000 I mentioned, just judges, but prosecutors, so all the holders of the judicial functions. We have so many in Serbia. On the other hand, it's the legacy of the past. We have 200,000 items in the process. In each of these cases, you have two sides: the prosecutor and the defendant, the promoter and the opponent, not to mention other procedural roles in each of the proceedings being conducted. There must not be only one man on each side, but there can be two, three or more people. Let's take it to be more than one. It's 500,000 people who directly participate in court proceedings. If you consider that they all have families, practically, it's two million people. That's why we need a much more effective judiciary. I couldn't agree more. In time, I launched an initiative to resolve a number of judicial officials, so that no political processes would be mounted, that there would be no electoral thefts and there would be no ignorants and incompetents in the judiciary. Then it should be consistent there. Then you have to say it right, and no, when you look at it, it's like I started an initiative to change the patriarch, don't give it to God, or some episcopal. So, I agree completely with you. People whose performance rate is 20% or 30%, one or more of the five convictions leading these marathon disputes, have nothing to ask for in the judiciary. It's precisely this law that should be an incentive to remember things change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18417	The word is made by MP Marko Jaksic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately when it comes to these court fees and it seems to me a good part of the other law, it cannot be applied to that space and to that territory where I come from. Whether they're big or small, I think it's the same for us down there. He doesn't have a lot of weight. We, for these two and a half years, not to say three years, are participating or not participating in the construction of a new, one Albanian judiciary system. We have refused to participate in this judiciary, we have no fees or any of these we pay. We didn't want to be a constituency monk, so that we'd be 10 or 15 percent in court, because that's where it's just revoted. However, we know that it has one price, we know that it costs dearly; it costs money and that it is in Albanian prisons, but in any case, freedom has one price. The only places in Kosovo and Metohija where these court fees can be applied, where they can be used and where Serbia can be, are primarily municipal courts in Leposavic and Zubin Potok. Unfortunately, the third district court is also in Kosovo Mitrovica, but it has been moved to the Kingdom by the will of the previous government, although most of the judges have remained in Kosovo's Mitrovica space. They're suing Clinton, Blair, and I don't know who they all are, and the building where these courts were located is in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, a building that UNMIK has now entered. The whole place, unfortunately, we could have defended it. About a month ago, we resolved the presidents of the municipal and district court in Kosovo, Mitrovica. We did this for the following reasons, for people participated in the theft of votes in 1993 and 1996 and 1997. Also, the justice ministry submitted and sent a commission that identified a lot of irregularities during the release from the court vaults. Reports are quite unfavourable, so fellow judges against their presidents filed a criminal report. What happens next - we've cleared those judges, but we've done them a favor. They still have the right to deposited signatures and continue to use those funds. They have no responsibility, though, because they're not the president of the court. We tried to resolve this dispute on the Justice Ministry line, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Coordination Centre, but I don't know why they're all transferring the ball from one side to the other. Judges, that is, the president of the courts that we have resolved continue to carry out their duties. We have another example, another story down there that talks between UNMIK on the one hand and our Ministry of Justice are being held on the issue of justice. Quite friendly, quite human, I want to say that we have to have a straight line about these negotiations, not to cross it, because sometimes it's a very thin line between co-operation and collaboration. Also, here I want to say that what we have down here, both on court taxis and on these courts, the Ministry of Justice should strengthen those elements of Serbian statehood in Kosovo and Metohija. Regardless of what they call parallel structures, they are the structures of the Serbian state. It's a stereotype story that according to Resolution 1244, we don't have the right to do that. The resolution also does not say that all institutions of the Serbian state must be expelled from Kosovo. The resolution also says there is no violence, there is no killing, there is no terror, so there is all this in Kosovo. After all, it says in Resolution that the Serbian Army and the Serbian police should return, so unfortunately it does not return. For these reasons, once again, on all these issues, I urge the Serbian Ministry of Justice to strengthen the embryo of Serbian statehood, if we think we are fighting for a better position and a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18419	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Marko Jaksic encouraged me to say a few things that are not in direct correlation with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, as he did not speak of it, but are vital to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. There's no need to repeat the story that the situation is dramatic. I had a written correspondence, and it was very unpleasant, with an earlier administrator, or UNMIK chief, Mr. Hekerup, who I think was doing his job very badly. After all, my address was in the means of information. I asked twice to come to Kosovo and Metohija and see how the work of the judicial authorities works. That, as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, was not allowed and allowed. A few days ago, I had an unpleasant conversation with the UNMIK justice representative, and it concerns those stereotype topics about Albanians in prisons in Serbia and the continued insistence that they be released. Of course, there is no jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice -- there has been a replacement of the thesis that in any way, the Ministry of Justice has affected that some Albanian prisoners are released from prison in Serbia. It is agreed that the President of the Supreme Court, a republican public prosecutor, me as justice minister and Mr Covic, together with all the judges who have worked before and those who have stayed to do the judicial and prosecutorial work in Kosovo and Metohija, will meet in Zvecan and then discuss with UNMIK representatives the future of the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. We have agreed to make this one of the priorities -- just to regulate the status of the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Covic, I don't know why, was prevented. We were supposed to be in Zvecan tomorrow, and it was arranged. I hope it's done in a few days. So, I want to assure you that we really honestly think that this is one of our priorities, that there is no maternal relationship. Unfortunately, it's one of those things that's been found and that we're trying, as far as we can, to make sure we fix it. So there is nothing, at least as the ministry and the minister of justice is concerned with some relationship of co-operation that is at the expense of the Serbian people, there was neither, nor will it be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18421	The word has been given by MP Dragan Jovanovic, followed by MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18422	Madam Chairman, please determine the quorum. There are 93 MPs in the O.R., I wouldn't speak in front of 93 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18423	Thank you, MP. I beg the Members of the People's Parliament... You can return to the bench until we find the quorum according to your proposal. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. 1300 hours. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. I would ask Mr Jovanovic to invite his MPs from the microphone in public because I cannot believe they don't care what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18424	It is known to me that you are constantly deviating from the political rules; it is known that you have 176 MPs and the elemental political thing is that the ruling majority must secure the quorum. We worked with 128 MPs for two years, the opposition MPs did not enter the Assembly Hall, no one invited them to work. So I think we've cleared this thing up once and it doesn't take a constant replacement of the thesis to raise tension.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18425	I didn't ask you to count us, since it was done at your request, but to call your MPs, it's still time for them to listen to their colleague and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18426	I think it's a success to make a quorum after 25 minutes of waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18427	We've created a quorum as you've noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18428	Dear People's MPs, a respected presidency that violates the Rules of Procedure, waiting 25 minutes for the quorum to be made, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. According to post-revolutionary DOS terminology, this should be either systemic or reform law. However, the content is neither systemic nor reformal, but one ordinary, as our people say, small law. However, as the character of people is known in ordinary life for its small things, so the character of a government is known by small laws. According to what is written in this law, according to its contents on these dozens of pages, the unnatural character of this government is very clear. The fees set out in this law are several dozen times greater, making justice absolutely inaccessible to a large number of Serbian residents, and there is no greater injustice that anyone can make to his people than to make justice inaccessible. There's no valid explanation for that. The people can understand everything, they can understand that the government makes electricity inaccessible by constantly increasing prices, there are reasons for that, they say -- they said from Europe that we have to make parity with European prices regardless of African wages. The people can understand that his drugs are inaccessible. He can tell the prime minister that he has competed for Serbia to be the healthiest nation in the world -- there are no medications, and then only survive healthy and be the healthiest nation. It can be explained to the people that jobs are inaccessible because the bosses said -- they need factories to be empty to sell cheaper, and the people can understand that. But there is no valid explanation that justice is inaccessible. We've heard some explanations. I heard on the committees of explanations from fellow MPs, he says - one of the goals of this law is that the people are less judged. Could that be an explanation - that the people are being judged less? So we want justice declared a luxury. You know, from the beginning, from the time of Rome, the people have cried out justice and bread. This is the law that seems to have deprived the people of justice, and as the government does, I'm not sure what's going to happen to the bread. Please, I can't think that the government's goal is to deprive the people of justice and to bring justice into its own hands. When you look at the fees, the value of the divorce dispute is 22,000 dinars, so on the tax; and what will a poor woman do with a drunk husband -- she'll probably take a hammer in her sleep to solve that question. Or, a poor peasant whose wealthier usurper is constantly plowing amongsts will most likely take the fairies and solve the problem alone. It wouldn't be a big deal if you didn't keep up with the rule of law. The rule of law, the rule of law - in every speech by the Minister of Justice, is a permanent rule of law. You don't mean, I guess, under the rule of law, just the firmness of legal institutions? The rule of law also implies the availability of justice for all its citizens. I think it's also one of the elements of the rule of law, the availability of justice to all its citizens, and this text, with fees like this, I don't think that's being achieved. What is particularly offensive, if you are correct and you feel it, is what offends both the opposition MPs and the MPs elected by the government, or so the prime minister says, so they chose not him, but him the messengers; what insults? We already had this text of the law before us, we had it a few months ago, and it's essentially an incorrect claim by the minister that the law was withdrawn. The law was rejected on the committees of the Assembly. So the MPs saw what the law contained and rejected it on congregation committees. I think it's humiliating for the Assembly (and that's the government's tendency all the time - to humiliate the Assembly) to put the returned law in front of the Assembly in a completely identical text. I was looking at a member per member and I didn't find any changed members in the original text. Maybe the amendments change something, one member seems to have changed. It is, at least, incorrect of the Government to return the law returned to the Members of the same text. When the student returns the task that the professor returned to correct, in the same text, he gets a weak grade. I think the government deserves at least a review because it has returned the law that MPs refused on committees in the same text. I think the minister's argument is at least incorrect. It also raises suspicion among well-intentioned MPs who are in favour of increasing taxis, for raising costs, but for real costs. The minister says - the mark was 3.8 in 1997, taking the bank's course, and you know that the mark was 3.8 officially in the bank, but the citizens who were tried were not selling the brand by 3.8 but by 7.6. The salary was 790 dinars compared to today's salary, but it wasn't gross wages. So he takes incorrect data and mixes grandmothers and frogs. I would personally support the change of taxis if it were said - please, all fees from first to last are leveled according to the growth rate of the mark. We know that's what we need. However, it is not correct for citizens, when speaking to the prime minister from this pay phone, when or the finance minister, and we listened to that a few days ago -- inflation is 37.7%, and last year 43%. So when we talk about salary increases, we're talking about inflations of 37% and 43%. When we raise prices, when we raise taxes, and when we raise traffic tickets, inflation is 1000%. I think the correct thing would be for the government to withdraw this text of the law and offer parliament a correct law with low-priced taxes in line with the rise in prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18429	The word has a folk MP, Bosko Ristic, and after that, MP Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18430	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to the same demagogue for 10 to 12 years in connection with the rule of law in this country and the rule of law, and this demagogy has continued behind this pay phone, where there is a sign of equality between the level of taxis and the level of protection of human rights and the interests of citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia. It is true that this is a constant question -- how to separate all the branches of the government from being truly, essentially independent and separate. In order for the judiciary to be absolutely independent, it must also be economically independent. In order to secure sources of funding, the state must make certain public revenues. It is normal for those who carry out certain activities of social interest to also collect income on that basis. Demagogy keeps emerging in relation to the level of protection of human rights against the amount of taxis, so it is said here that the increase in taxis will affect that citizens will not be able to conduct procedures in order to protect their own interests. That is absolutely not true: first of all, given what the ruling coalition has promised citizens before it entered this parliament, which is the rule of law, the separation of all branches of government, and thus the establishment of a fully independent judiciary that will be independent of all sources of political power, as it was in the previous period. We fought for it to the greatest extent possible. What condition, above all, did we find when we entered this parliament and what is it that characterized the Serbian judiciary? We had a politically dependent judiciary, we had judges who were inadequately educated, honor to numerous exceptions, we had, five or six years ago, the admission to justice of people who were received solely on the basis of family and party membership. I come from Nis where this phenomenon is extremely represented. As far as justice is concerned, the judges had extremely low wages, they were unmotivated to do their job the way the law requires them to do it. They have worked under extremely high pressure, and all with the aim of ordering political powers, as they suit them, and all for the interests of their party and for the permanent preservation of such a non-national and non-democratic government. Judges have been irregularly receiving their receipts, raising their voice against it and demanding greater protection of personal interests, their own safety and greater independence. They sought regular and normal wages, which could support themselves and their families. On one of the consultations with the then Minister of Justice at Vranjska Banja, they got the answer - do you live on your own salary alone, don't you have any other incomes? The demagogue around low taxis, which provided a "good and high level" of protection of human rights, essentially came down to fill the budget with illegal punishment for independent media and filling it in a way that marked the poverty and oppression of all rights and freedoms. The indiscriminate conduct of criminal proceedings, defined not only by legal reasons but by political belongings and by different opinions of those against whom they are being initiated, while at the same time protecting political powermakers who, using their social position, made enormous wealth - did not raise the issue of taxis, this raises the question of political will and the direct impact of politics on the called independent judiciary. Why are taxes necessary and necessary? First of all, in order to ensure stable sources of income, but, at the same time, the introduction of taxis, according to current economic and economic opportunities, according to the cost of living, according to the necessary costs that the judiciary has in the exercise of its powers, is absolutely necessary for the judiciary to survive. We are facing above all now with the adoption of new sets of laws on justice, that future appeals courts, for example, do not have their seats. In Nis, the future seat of the Court of Appeal, or its department, has not yet prepared a building in which the trial would take place. Sources of income are necessary, demagogy is on the one hand to talk about high taxes and high taxes, and on the other hand to advocate their non-encouraging or non-introduction. Serbia's budget must have a balance between income and expenditure, in order for all state functions to take place in an adequate manner. Are these taxes such as to endanger the protection of rights and conduct of proceedings? It is said very often that there are people who do not have enough to exist, so in the event of a threat to their rights they would not be in a position to initiate proceedings before courts. I must remind the MPs that there is a so-called. The poor right, which means that the most vulnerable, with no means of living, can, through public income administration, obtain a certificate based on which they are released from taxis and can initiate court proceedings. Therefore, this minimum tax liability that prevents the chicane initiation of proceedings (that is, when someone is going to sue the neighbor, just to do him harm) absolutely makes no sense in comparison to increasing the tax liability. If we compare the tax liability for certain values to the basis of the dispute, which should distinguish the value of the basis of the dispute from the amount of the tax to be charged, it is absolutely disproportionate to the costs of the procedure. You have one minor lawsuit that lasts several years or ten years, for which a minor fee was paid at the beginning of the trial, and ultimately the enormous cost of the dispute that has been increased by the costs of hiring lawyers and the costs of hiring an expert. Therefore, all costs of the procedure must be in relative proportion. However, only an increase in taxis means an increase in the obligation and responsibilities of all judicial holders to carry out the law responsibly, consistently and effectively in the conduct of the procedures entrusted to them. It is true that there are a large number of judges, but there are also a lot of employees of professionals; however, experience suggests that in the past ten years, non-selective and unlawful admission to judicial authorities has been made. There are a large number of people who don't know what to do there and only at celebrations and anniversarys we see, when they get together, that there are five times as many as we see them in the halls of the court that they're really doing something. On the other hand, an increase in tax means more responsibility for spending the funds. This government and this government are in favour of transparency in the collection and spending of funds. However, we have been witnessing that funds in the judiciary are being expended illegally. There have been very frequent divisions of dwellings without legal basis and there have been many criminal charges against the president of courts who have distributed apartments without any criteria, without any basis, and only on the basis of friendship or party membership. They got loans they didn't deserve. Credits were given to people who had a settled housing issue, so they got loans for the second or third house. There are criminal charges about all of this, and I expect that the Ministry of Justice, the Government and the Justice, first of all, the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Court, will do everything to make sure that these cases see the light of day and that the perpetrators of such illegal acts are brought to justice. Very often, funds have been spent unintentionally and illegally. In the Nickel court, investments lasted 15 years. Since I became an intern, 18 years ago, I've seen this court constantly being renovated and refurbished, the NJCs have been re-readed five times and are not in office today, but that's why we can see that the tiles in the halls are also in some judges' private bars, identical tiles. Some argue that taxes do not increase, but they have collected revenue for their profits in very illegal ways. The presidents of the courts had their sponsors who provided them with participation in seminars, paid expensive transportation and expensive hotels. On the other hand, some have increased their income by obtaining apartments from all the clients, or judges, or council members, who have decided on detentions, but have received locals in the center of Nis, but in the name of their husbands. There is evidence of this and these evidence is given to the Ministry of Justice and the Republic's Prosecutor's Office. We expect him to see the light of day. When we talk about this, it's in a direct and consequential relationship with taxi charges. This authority advocates transparency in charge, we advocate that taxes be increased adequately in the circumstances in which our society is located compared to what we found in 2000. It is true that the cost of living has increased, but it is true that the profits have increased and these are taxes fixed for the future period. We expect the growth of the social product, we expect an increase in standards, and we expect the absolute possibility that people can pay these taxes. Of course, it all means increased responsibility for all the institutions I mentioned, starting with the government, the Justice Department, the President of the courts, to the judges themselves. Otherwise, I advocate that the future way in which the taxis are charged and the way in which the judiciary is financed changes. I am in favour of an independent court budget and expect the government to find the possibility in the future and the mechanisms to direct taxi charges exclusively to the efficiency of the work of the judiciary and to increase its material base. I support certain proposals to increase the impact of spending on the funds collected on the basis of taxi charges. I hope that this increase in taxis, with all our efforts to ensure that the holders of judicial functions have increased responsibility under new circumstances, will increase the efficiency of the conduct of the procedure, but will also eliminate all procedures which have a chicane character and which serve only to make the other party less likely or to make a mockery before the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18431	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18432	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, once again, we have before us a proposal for a legal act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that cannot resist any serious and well-intentioned criticism. No matter what the Proposer and this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes may be baptized in reform, we would rather say that it is truly retrograde and restrictive in relation to all who will be under his attack. The proposed amounts of court fees are indeed too high, and this is said in most amendments submitted, they are inappropriate to our present, or economic impotence. After all, in this country so far, nothing has collected as many court fees as proposed. And the promoter really didn't convince us of the vindication of his solution. That's what worries the most, so - what is actually wanted by this legal act. It is certainly justified to disable not a very small number of truly pointless judgments, which many are inclined to do in these areas. Is that the goal? This would help to make future courts more involved in the affairs that are primarily and exist, or to be more effective. However, it should be considered, primarily, to whom the income money goes in this way. It is known to be intended for the Republic's budget. In this regard, the proposer points out that one of the purposes of the court's fee is to finance the work of the courts by the court's participants, where the increase in the court's fee would also increase the participation of taxpayers in the financing of the work of the courts. That is correct, but the proposer does not declare the extent to which this budget revenue will be used for the really increased needs of our judiciary. There is indeed a need for radical changes in the judiciary. You can't go on without modernising and humane strengthening of courts, in which you're still working in a long way, often for the benefit of, to God, some state and various other interests, not just by the letter of the law. It must also be borne in mind that the legal act on court and judges, which has recently passed our assembly, limits the working age of judges to 65 years of life, and even in the Supreme Court there are judges who are even older. When these judges will give their place to younger and certainly more summer colleagues. In general, the Serbian Unity Party remains firmly on everything we have already pointed out for this speaker during the first debate on the proposed fees. Let me remind you, I said that the proposer should have learned about the bad side of the law so far. I keep in mind that the current fees have already been too high for many citizens, even for legal entities. This is especially true for pensioners and disabled people, most of whom are social cases. Legal entities, as tax payers, have almost as a rule never been compensated, i.e. in court decisions, are not given a tight legal fee for the benefit of those who receive the dispute. The highest court decision fee in the emergency legal means, an audit of the economic dispute, amounted to 150 thousand dinars on 16 April 1997 in the dinar equivalent of 41,660 German marks. Today, the party in the litigation process would receive, in this case, about 5,000 marks for compensation and would lose more than 36,000 marks. In this regard, given that litigation takes 20 years, the party in the proceedings may experience or experience that the defendant disappears from the records of the economic operators. Therefore, the damage to a given tax should be recognised by legal tightening interest or an even fairer solution would be to pay tax only after a judicial and executive court decision. Today we live in a lot of poor countries, at least that's true of a vast majority of its citizens, so it's absurd to cut taxes to the extent of so-called. The developed world. After all, even in many ways, the current power overlooks our reality, even at the cost of further disenfranchiseing citizens and impoverishing the poor economy. Of all things, the Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group will not support this proposal by the Government of Serbia on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18433	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic, and after that Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opening statement, Mr. Minister said that such taxes are necessary because our citizens are suing for everything and everything. The environments we come from are similar, there's a couple of people in every middle who argue for everything and everything. However, the vast majority of citizens flee from the court and the judiciary as the devil from the cross and do not like to enter that room or the building unless there is a direct need. So that excuse doesn't stand. Chairman, do your duty, hear what that gentleman from the right-hand corner is yelling at you. This time I will speak exclusively of this bill, and what I think of DOS authority I will say tonight in the Meat Community "Sava" at 1800 hours. Mr. Minister, to take advantage of this because I am not going to use my time, please step out for this pay phone and explain to the citizens of the Pcinj County how a member of your party has been volunteering, or the head of the district, a designated person by the government is a volunteer. The law of this country can't do that. Why don't you go outside and tell them why there's a volunteer in the Pcinian County? The bird county is with the biggest problems in this country. I suggest that the application of this law ( since you provide for some laws to be applied since 2004, after the next regular elections), be from 2004, or from the first regular elections, since you will no longer be in power, so this law will not even be applied, these citizens will not have to pay. Nor does your game of numbers stand to justify such high taxes. You carried out the data that the average salary, for example, was 100 marks, and now it's 250, but you didn't say that when the salary was 100 marks you could buy 20% more goods than you can buy for 250 marks. If the quality of life of citizens, from the last time the court fees were raised, when their height was determined, increased five times, then let's talk about raising the fees five times. However, the citizens live five times worse than the time these current taxes were brought. Gentlemen of the DOS, the laws you have passed, as well as the laws in the procedure, were not in your election program. You were talking about some cheap country that's gonna cost some citizens. Go to the polls and let the citizens give as many cabs as they deserve. And, one more thing, this enormous increase in taxis also requires a level of service; thus guaranteeing that the level of service for citizens will be higher, if we remember a time from a few months ago -- when the appointment of the holders of judicial and judicial functions, you have appointed persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, which are ongoing. Are these people and those personnel you named, and they were all members of your parties, and you said they would be depolitized by the judiciary, guaranteeing to the citizens that they would have quality protection of their rights?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18435	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18436	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what kind of storm is going on after this afternoon's silence, I don't know, we'll probably see it in the afternoon session. After a poor assessment in October and fierce criticism by MPs, Minister Batic, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, withdrew the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. It would be said nothing new, nothing strange for this government and proposals for legal projects. Stranger and surprising that, with the same proposal, it has not been changed for Yotu, the government is coming before this parliament again, hoping for a lighter criterion and more favourable winds by some parliamentary groups. The biggest miracle is the government's amendment to its own bill, but it's not a miracle, it's a regular practice to correct a mistake. The basic reason, i.e. the motive for a drastic increase in court fees, is given in the explanation where it stands (quote): "One of the purposes of the court's fee is that the work of the courts is financed by the court's participants and the increase of the court's fee increases the participation of the taxpayers in the financing of the work of the courts." This finding is correct, but it does not go into my head that the material position of one of the state authorities depends on how many people are tried and how much they pay to exercise their right. What does the principle that only those who have to pay will achieve their right, will the same take note of the already established principle of healing, schooling and living only those who have all that to pay? How will the material position of the judiciary improve, if the scope of the case is reduced and the participation of taxable persons, and the people themselves begin to exorcise justice? That's what you pointed out in Section 2 of your arguments, I think that yesterday one of the MPs, did Mr. Vukic, speak of it, and in his explanation, says: "In the course of prescribing the lower limit of the value of the dispute, it is taken into account that, according to the value of the dispute, the level of the tax is determined, this way the legal entities stimulate their obligations, if they can express themselves in a small nominal amount, are executed by an extrajudicial means, thus reducing unnecessary litigation." That means the lower limit has been increased 10-40 times. Well, if they could have made a deal, they wouldn't have come to court. I ask you and ask you an answer to one serious question -- which, by way of over 250,000 current account users will be liquidated and banks in bankruptcy will get their money, or part, or even a small part, if not in court proceedings, if we know that over 70% of those who feed on delayed payments, and they have to pay their dues immediately, and the money remains in their account? What kind of tax do they have to pay to get in line and wait and hope for their money? The tax was 60 dinars, and the new tax was 500 dinars, i.e. it increased eight times. This means that out of 250,000 current account users, some of them have already raised 5,000 dinars, and all those who are not and who are left over that amount will have to pay a new fee, meaning 500 dinars, to get in line to collect their claims. Only on this basis will more than 100 million dinars be taken from citizens. Will this mean that the material position of trade courts will be improved, and for the citizens they don't care and nobody asks them? We believe that the material position of judges and employees in the judiciary must be improved, but from the budget, which I was talking about when we adopted the budget, reducing the resources for the work of various government agencies and NGOs, and through a more moderate increase in court fees, as we proposed in the amendments. Two more questions I would like to ask at the end - do you think the people will immediately start to judge and pay large taxes, from the day of entry into force of this law, to achieve the objectives set by the Minister and Government, or has it already been realised in the previous six months? Where will you provide funding for the UN tribunal, which you regularly follow? According to this small number of MPs present here, I see you regularly following it. Where will you provide funding to the UN tribunal, as some funding participants cancel obedience, and will justice depend on only one who has to pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18437	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic (a replica to the presentation of the People's MP Ljubomer Mucic).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, of course, use the opportunity to go out for a pay phone, because, in addition to the right to the replica, I can't answer my word and speak anything about the proposed law, for the simple reason that it seems to me, in an unconstitutional and illegal manner, that right has been taken away from me. I would remind the citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia, that the bill (so, not the draft, not what the government should have just adopted, but the bill) was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia several months ago, and in a completely identical text it appeared again before the MPs. The only difference is that he once signed the text, Dusan Mihajlovic, and the second time Joseph Kasa. It would be interesting if someone told us what changes happened in the meantime. But the essence (and that is what Mr Mucic was talking about, when he mentioned me, that is what MP Slobodan Janjic was talking about), is in the following -- some of the regimes, some of the authorities, have poor memories, like Mahmut Bakali, cannot remember what they said yesterday. I remind those present in this room that we have heard that everything will be much better, more successful, simpler, easier, that the people will live incomparably better, that simply the people will want that power to remain and survive for years and decades, because they will hardly know what to do with that money. In the end, we came to this - I did a little math (and the MPs were already talking about it), I added that two plain breads, which today say 600 grams, and there are no 600 grams, so two plain breads, a liter of milk, a liter of yogurt and two eggs, that's already 120 dinars. If you multiply that by 30 days, you'll get an account of 3,600 dinars. This is already more important than the minimum earnings in the Republic, which is more than 50% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. If you look at it, and you ask the question -- and where is your shoes and clothing money, where is your money for electricity, where is your money for meat, where is your money for anything that is the basic needs of every person, whether it's a child, whether he's an old man, whether he's a grown man, I think that's when you're going to see and find out how miserable and how hard it is to live. Why is it important to point this out about the court cabs? This morning, coming to the party rooms of the SRS, I saw order in front of one of the exchange offices. I wondered why people were standing in line, if people had that kind of money, so now they're changing into the euro or some other currency, the Swiss franc, the American dollar, and then I came up and saw that people were changing 10, 20 and 50 marks, so they couldn't go to one of the neighboring shops, buy bread and milk, what they needed most, most importantly, to get families to eat, so they could survive. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it already increases its taxes by 10 times (the latest changes were 1997, and DOS has been in power since 2000, so you can talk about three years), say it is possible that inflation was 1,000% or more than 1000%, and is it possible that conditions of life for citizens are improved, so it is possible to impose on them in this way? (President: three minutes 30 seconds. ( ) So, is it possible to impose new commitments on them in this way, to pay them? I just think -- whether someone loved or didn't like Serbian radicals, loved one or the other -- the people won't be able to take it anymore, because they're really living harder, even you see it. And when we talk between ourselves, we who have relatively high wages here, so we have nothing more to do, we spend everything on expenses, you might think it's hard for a people who have five, six, seven, or eight times less income than we do. How will they survive?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18439	The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and after that, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18440	Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, I'm not a lawyer, but I didn't know there were 3,000 judges in this country, and there were 19,000 employees in the judiciary, because the Zorca Holding Company in Šapec used to have about 7,000 factories with its own 20 factories, now there are no more. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are reportedly the reasons for the law being passed, as the proposer says, precisely because the Law on Court Taxes came into force on 23 April 1994, and its amendments and additions were carried out on two occasions, and that was 1995. Year and year 1997. Apparently, amendments and additions to the Law have not been made for four years. It turns out that court fees are part of the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the purpose of the court's fee is to fund the work of the courts, i.e. The effective work of courts is expected by increasing court fees. Gentlemen, this is another stupidity and intricacies of the legislator. The judicial function is one of the most important social functions of the state and has a central place in every political system. The fundamental social function of the state in the legal sphere is the establishment of a legal order, as the basic regulator of behaviour in the whole society. The state is a means and legal order of the form of a political constitution of society. The state is trying to determine the necessary measure of integrity and optimal unity of all elements of the political system, in order to maintain it permanently with the help of the legal order. The more successful the state achieves its legal function, the more effective the legal order will be, the more adequate the regulator of all political processes and relations. In order for the legal order to be truly successful and optimal, its standards must be subject to the state that created it. In order to make the functioning of the legal order as efficient as possible and to combat the tendencies of red tape, to combat creativity and creative initiatives, the state introduces significant divisions in the judicial branch of government, by dividing into five components, whose competences are strictly different. These are the courts (regular and special), the public prosecutor's office, the state's attorney's office, and the judicial administration, which handles the material security of the judiciary. State policy in the area of the judicial system is based on the determination of the objectives of courts, the evaluation of their activity and the guidance of judicial practice based on certain principles. Introducing a judicial policy, a rationally targeted and oriented state seeks to refer conflicting entities to compromise or consensus, in order to go to judgment and rigorously implement judgments only where compromise is possible. How our government successfully works can be seen by the standard of Serbian citizens. Instead of raising citizens' standard of living, you're increasing court fees. At a time when many companies go into bankruptcy or liquidation, most of all because of unpaid debts, they have to sue the debtors, and they also have to pay high court fees. Here, now, so you see the state coming out to meet these companies. Also, in the current crisis, where citizens have to seek justice before the court, the first ones are waiting at the door of a judicial court tax, so that they are immediately prevented from seeking justice in that institution. As for the financing of courts, this is foreseen by the 2002 budget, because I think it's a great nonsense to rely on court fees to make it possible to pay judges of 1,000 marks. Gentlemen, if a 1,000-mark salary is to be made available to judges, then 1,000 marks should be made available to doctors, and to university professors who have taught judges how to judge. I think it will give God that Serbian citizens will come to their senses and that they will no longer go to the judge, that there will be no trial. We Serbian radicals always advocate an independent judiciary, that is, the judiciary of honest judges. The previous government also had judges of political colour in its ranks, and it seems to me that today, too, this DOS government, or the democratic power, that is, the minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Batic - is today solely the judges who are members of the party. It was also confirmed in Šapco, when it was appointed acting as the chairman of the District Court. Gentlemen, I don't think the SRS will support this law, precisely because it's unprincipled, because it's so murderous and so restrictive, in fact, it wants to destroy the little humanity in the citizens of this country, in the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18441	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and then by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the same proposal again, with only two different reasons, in order to help the Serbian judiciary. There is no help for the Serbian judiciary in this way, there is no independent Serbian judiciary in this way and there is certainly no protection of judicial functions with these many months of attacks on the judge's post. Although the proposal says that 50% of the funds achieved on the basis of the revenues from the fees that go to the Republic of Serbia's budget will be returned to the judiciary, I do not think that this is enough revenue to allow judges in the judiciary to be paid 1,000 marks. You can't talk about real and real reforms in these sectors unless you mention what's going on with doctors' salaries. Should they be less than 1,000 marks? What about education workers' salaries? Aren't they supposed to be big too? Can't do without the root change in the tax system. You've made a quasi reform, you don't have system solutions in that area. You have strong groups for mutual control, not for a fight that really needs to be fought, which is a fight against the gray economy. You invented a story on bribery and corruption, and in fact you have to fight the gray economy, because there are the biggest sources of corruption. I'm watching from this pay phone, warm lawyers laminate about the judges. Why wouldn't you? They always fight for their own parties. Here, when the president of the Yugoslav Bar Association gets up and starts talking about his practice from this pay phone, let him show me how many lawyers, those better paid, filed a tax return showing their real gain and paid taxes on that profit. When you can beat up judges in Serbia, then show where you are and how much you respect this country and how much you really care about it. I'm not saying it's not necessary to raise taxes, it certainly is. Someone needs you to pay the fees. You're constantly changing thesis. You forgot that there is an economic term, perhaps one of the most important words that should be used in Serbia. You've forgotten that banks need to lend business to produce, so you forget that we're in front of a agricultural set, because we're starting a year in that area. No one from this pay phone mentions her. You abuse these people just to manipulate their political support, not to make their incomes come true. Will you remind me that they don't get me any more rudely, it's hard, the one with the glasses, I don't even know what it's called. There are so many rude people out there. If we had the opportunity for people to pay taxes, to come to court and protect their rights, because most of the justice system is tied to litigation and extraparate treatment, less criminally, and these are mostly threatened rights, whether property or other. In this area, the most significant taxes have certainly been raised, and we all acknowledge, both the media and the MPs here acknowledge, that the material position of the population is significantly difficult, that the pay power has certainly fallen and that there are large social groups that cannot provide even a personal existence. Full-time layoff of employees is hereby announced. Well, how do you think someone is protecting their rights, so they won't be able to get to court at all, to pay for the protection of their own rights, especially property rights. Then we come to the field of endangering basic human rights. Please, we can't just treat it through obligations and stories, we need to help the judiciary. This kind of justice won't help. Justice, health care and education, and in particular businesses, we will help if the tax system is reconstructed, if taxes are paid to everyone, but real taxes. We're in a period of real taxes this year, and nobody said anything about them, they don't matter. We have some loans ahead of us, we're having talks with the IMF that mentions $800 million, we're getting loans to finance budget spending, to finance budget deficits. Where are our real incomes for this country? That's what you should think about, gentlemen. That's your basic mission, I guess that's what the people chose you for. So as not to abuse people in the judiciary for free, please stop talking about judges. I especially ask Mr. Lawyers who sit behind these benches -- it would be best to show citizens each of them their tax returns how much he pays the tax, what he specifically contracted with a special party. It's not true that the cobwebs are paid, lawyers are well aware of what they do, how they charge for it. Only at regular litigation sessions, as well as in writing complaints, is the tariff clear. In any case, specific values are negotiated and they are expressed in percentages of the value of the dispute. So, I'm not going to say that's one of the sources of corruption, but, uh, take care, and someone else will ask you tomorrow what you were doing in the years behind you. Therefore, the best thing to do is to look at this law again, to illustrate the paid power of the population; to look at from which areas people most conduct disputes, I think it's a litigious and extra-parity area, whether this world has the opportunity to pay for the protection of personal rights, and to comply with that. But I think there are a lot of amendments to that subject. I ask the parliamentary group of the majority of DOS to take care of when amendments to this topic are discussed, because it will certainly be significant and I think it does not matter whether the MPs of the opposition or the positions speak, but it is important that we take care of citizens' interests once. Finally, I ask you that when we talk about any topic, we take care of what we say, we listen to each other. There's no point in what this Parliament is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18443	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia comes to the National Assembly with another poor bill that does not bring good to Serbian citizens, but only increases their dissatisfaction. The draft law on court fees represents another attack on the citizens' budget, endangers their standard and brings nothing good. The cost of living has been increased, the prices of all foods have increased multiple, the price of electricity has increased, taxes have been increased and now what is left for the government - to cheer its citizens up by increasing their court fees. As an SRS MP, I cannot accept the proponent's argument that one of the purposes of the court's fee is to finance the work of the courts and to increase the participation of taxpayers in the financing of the work of the courts. It is obvious that the applicant's intensity is to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget; and in order to be best -- well, through citizens of Serbia and a one-off and irrational increase in court fees. Is that what DOS government promised in the election campaign? Whether a new force on a fairy or a new harbinger should replace everything that was not found in the budget, and the government expected. There is no foreign aid, the country's problems are piling up, and now it needs to burden those citizens who would eventually become participants in court proceedings. Perhaps this bill of judicial fees would not have met the resistance of us Serbian radicals, if at least something in the country had worked, if the economy had not collapsed thanks to the disastrous economic policy of DOS, that citizens had something to respond to the country's growing and larger demands. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia has no hearing or understanding of the increasingly difficult conditions of the lives of its citizens and that there is less understanding for all the difficulties it has put on Serbian citizens by its disastrous policy. A good part of Serbia's citizens sometimes, not by their own desire and guilt, becomes a participant in the court dispute. They are sometimes forced to do so, and many of them will not be able to pay an elementary court fee. It is not popular at all, and even less justifiable, that under the conditions of social misery and major economic crises prices rise, including court fees. As an SRS MP, I have often criticised Minister Batic from this pay phone. This time, I believe that the ideologist of this unreasonable increase in court taxis is Finance Minister Djelic. A self-proclaimed world finance expert, and all he knows is that he introduces a harrassor to Serbian citizens. The bill on court fees was offered to MPs of the National Assembly, so he was suddenly withdrawn as bad. Now it's back at the price, and there's nothing qualitative about it that's changed compared to the previous one. Serbian citizens who have nothing to pay a court fee won't even be able to seek justice in courts, so they are threatening to take justice into their own hands because other potentials will not be. Gentlemen of the DOS, the end of your reign is entirely certain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18445	I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After a break - 15.50 hours.]] Dear People's MPs, please insert identification cards into your MPs in order to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We are continuing to discuss the Court Tax Act in principle. There are four other registered speakers. The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18447	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an eclectic example -- here, after 45 minutes after the session was scheduled, we gathered together, thank God, not only because the opposition MPs were absent, but because the parliamentary majority of the DOS was absent. I hope you've had a nice rest around lunchtime, so we can go to new joints, about passing laws that will bring about a better life in Serbia. Unfortunately, in this year's time, we have passed few such laws, and, as it may seem, it will not be better in this case than it was before. So the essence of this bill is that court fees increase by about 10 times. First of all, I have to say that this is another eclatant example of how unseriously the preparation of legislative proposals, legislative projects, by the government, is, so who knows which times certain legal proposals are put into the assembly procedure, withdrawing from the assembly procedure, in order to allegedly improve, in the meantime, dress, make-up, return to the congregation procedure, etc. However, it is a feature of what the Serbian government is doing today. Mr. Minister, you really have a chance to go out for a pay phone and explain all that, there's no need to throw it away. So, unseriousness is one of the characteristics of this government's work and I think it will be extremely important in this case to draw attention to the fact that in a situation where almost two thirds of the population in Serbia is on the verge of poverty, which is so for some (two thirds of the population in Serbia at the edge of poverty, gentlemen, if you haven't heard), it is very difficult to accept most of the population and this increase in court fees. In fact, if we can agree that a price increase may have occurred because there could have been an increase, as someone said there was an increase in wages (but unfortunately, there was only an increase in prices) we must say that the penalties for traffic violations have also shaken people who do not have the means for basic living needs. But let's be objective -- it's true that there is a need to improve the situation in the judiciary, it is true that judges and judicial workers are not adequately paid. Therefore, the promises of salaries of over 1,000 marks or about 1,000 marks should indeed be met, but our expectations, and the expectations of all those who voted for DOS on 5 October or earlier and who trusted you with a voice, were not in this sense that your authority would be focused on increasing penalties, court fees, increasing prices, but would create an atmosphere of well-being in Serbia and that increasing productivity and increasing the production of all economic operators would cause the situation to go faster and that we can expect an extremely high standard of living. Unfortunately, it didn't happen; I say - unfortunately. However, we must conclude that, in this case, unlike traffic offences or electricity and utility prices, so in cases where people cannot agree with each other, they have to turn to courts for solutions to their disputes, those who are unable to pay court fees, to be prevented from seeking protection of their rights before courts. Fortunately, there is also the Institute of Poverty Law that allows those who are in court to prove that they are not in a position to pay court fees can exercise their right to court. At the same time, I need to draw attention to the fact that it will make an extraordinary tick or a crowd in front of social work centers. Of course, it will make it a little easier for courts to work in the first place, but centres for social work in municipalities or intermunicipal centres will be overcrowded with requests to issue certificates to regulate poverty rights. I can agree that the aim of reform policy in the judiciary is to raise the efficiency of the courts, I can agree that the aim should be to ensure the independence of the courts, however, we must not allow the independence of the courts, unlike what is indirectly provided by means of increased court fees, to be provided by donations from some foreign governments, such as the recent donation to build or adapt the Supreme Court building. I must say that raising the efficiency of the courts in this way will not be achieved very much. Speaking of which, in order to increase the efficiency of the courts, it might be more appropriate to fill out the vacant court seats, which I have already talked about on several occasions. I would like to point out that in the Pirot District Court, three judges of seven are unfulfilled and that, in order to prevent corruption or negative phenomena in the judiciary, perhaps better and more effectively sanction those among the judges, who even after 5 October (and such an example existed recently in Pirot) have received bribes or in any other way laundered a judicial function. Also, I must say, unfortunately, one of the results of the reform in the area of justice, which is so remarkable, is that a large number of judges and public prosecutors have left the judge's post and gone to lawyers. Unfortunately, I still have to realize that there are no large cases of lawyers becoming judges. For what? Of course, it's because of the fact that being in the judiciary isn't good from afar. Let me refer to a few notes that Mr. Honored Minister Batic said here in the opening statement about litigating mentality. It's true that our people like to sue, it's true that they like to be tried; there's an anecdotes -- there's a village near Piroth called Krupac, and if someone from Krupac got a week on the lotou, he'd probably decide to sue the whole village before he buys a new tractor. However, no black anti-corruption troikas within the MUP have been established to contain any hot phones that can be contacted 24 hours by those who want to sue; at the same time, they are declared to be in favour of suppressing litigatory mentality by raising court fees is indeed unrealistic. And finally, when people cannot resolve their dispute in a peaceful way, when they cannot address the courts to resolve this dispute, they will resort to what is natural -- self-help, and in this extremely tense situation where we are in and in the extremely complex time in which we live (we will not enter the reasons why so) can be extremely dangerous. This is why the SPS will not support this bill, because we believe the proposed fees are extremely large. I don't want to list members who are really very bad, but ultimately, and the adoption of amendments that determine the value of the object of the dispute to collect a fee of, say, 25,000 dinars, the very fact that these amounts are reduced by half, says enough in favour of our claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18448	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski. He's not there. The People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and after that, the MP Vladimir Garčević. None of the MPs are present, nor Lazar Marjanski, nor Hranislav Peric, nor Vladimir Garcevic. This concludes the debate in principle. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, or are they not present, do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is, you could all see for yourself if you were comparing this text proposal to the one that the minister pulled out of the procedure in time, that there was no difference, except in Article 31(2), where it was changed in one tariff system to a number of 1,000, so we are really wondering what was the reason for that proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes to withdraw, and now to parliament again to consider and adopt the same text. It is either a political trade between DOS parties or another underestimation of parliament, which is not a rare case of being experienced here by representatives of the government and the government in general. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear Minister Bozidar Djelic calling us ugly names, to shout and shout here, in a very neurotic state, at the MPs, forgetting that he was probably a guest in this House and that we were hosts. It's probably a matter of culture, a matter of some civil society that the DOS stands for, but in the best possible way, it paints exactly that civilian culture of DOS members. The minister here on several occasions told us about the reasons for the law's adoption, first of all, to focus on the need to coordinate with the growth of earnings and the rise in prices over the past four years. In addition, we are told that by adopting the Budget Law we have practically agreed to an increase in court fees, because the idea of increasing court fees has already been incorporated into the Budget Law. I remind you that the Budget Law was criticised by Serbian Radical Party MPs and that we voted against it, above all because we thought it was unrealistic. If he was unrealistic, then this bill that is before us today is unreal. We are also told that court fees go to a special conto and that 50% goes to improve the position of judicial employees, for material costs and special purposes. We've already had a chance to see how the position of police employees improves by increasing criminal penalties, and now it's up to us to improve the salaries of judicial employees, and only the judge and prosecutors, mostly, who have about 3,000. This way, little Perica could provide funds to raise wages, and we expected this expert government to find other funds in the budget to keep its pre-election promise. We also wonder whether these funds, i.e. from the pockets of citizens who regularly pay all taxes and expect to get the justice they deserve in return, the police they deserve, the health care they deserve, the financing of our judges' trip to the white world, where someone educates them that they should judge in Serbia. It's as if every judge doesn't know that it should be judged under the Constitution, the law, and by his free conviction, but obviously it's about education exactly what kind of free jurisprudence should be and how the Constitution shouldn't be respected. The claim that taxes have been raised only five times is not true, because you gentlemen have managed to devalue the mark; and if there is no inflation as you say, because it is not as much as it really is, then there is no room to increase the court fees in some cases up to 50 times. I remind you that the prices of basic life supplies have been significantly increased, that today a four-member family who buys two breads a day, a liter of milk, two yogurts, in a month alone, must allocate about 6,600 dinars, and that is your average salary that we are proud of today in Serbia. Besides, we have to pay for electricity and utility, because if we don't pay, then, of course, we're shut down. What is the price of electricity, it is what citizens see best today, and these are the very days when bills that are not really small come in. The minister, appealing to us to vote for this law, told us - if you want to raise the level of justice, an independent judiciary, then you should vote for this law. We also want the independent judiciary and the judiciary to work on a higher level and that judges have the salaries they deserve, but we also want to improve the position of bakers, butchers, potters, professors, health workers, so I'm asking you how and how are we going to do it? All citizens must pay the judiciary out of their pockets this way, although they already finance the state through taxes, excise duties, customs duties and other duties. You say that salaries are employed in the judiciary in Slovenia around 4,000 marks - with us, of course, these salaries cannot be nearly as much, and that is why our judges are depressed. I believe they are, and they're depressed workers at the flag, some have committed suicide, our children are killing themselves in schools these days, and we're wondering why, because their parents are depressed because they're out of work, whether because we have sects in our schools, because many directors are members of certain sects, whether because we have such a minister of education as we have. Please don't just talk about the judges and their depression. Today, 97% of Serbian citizens are depressed because they do not know how to survive and how to feed their children. I ask you, if there was such a physical injury (we often have a limit of mild and severe physical injury): the husband beat the woman, the woman filed a report, the attorney general finds that there is no place to initiate the procedure under official duty, remains on her to press charges for personal injuries - will one such poor woman have the money to do so? I've had a chance to meet one of those women on the street these days, who complained to me and said, "No, I can't sue now, I don't have money for that kind of taxes and court fees." So justice will be much more accessible to a wide range of citizens in our country. One more thing that is very important for this law: if a court tax cannot be charged, like all other costs of the dispute, there is, of course, a mandatory charge in the executive procedure and first a severance of movable, and then immovable things. So the prosecutor will gain probably the justice he will long wait for, but he'll run out of some mobile stuff from his household or even immobility, since we're going so steeply towards poverty, because as long as the proceedings go on, a man can, in the meantime, completely impoverish. If you wanted to improve your alertness, you should have predicted that the fees were paid after the verdict was brought to justice, and then it would certainly have a stimulating effect on the judges that the dispute was going on as soon as possible, that the procedure would be completed as soon as possible. But it's not in this law. First pay, and wait for justice, it's always been hard to come by. Because of all this I have now put forward and for all my colleagues in the principle debate, the Serbian Radical Party will vote against such a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18450	Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18451	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party believes that intention is not bad, but it is a bad way to realize and to get what it wants, or to increase the salaries of judges in courts. It's known that judges can't do anything else in their private lives, they can't have their own buty, their own company, their own catering facility if their only occupation is the work they do in court. I think we need to raise the salary to the judges, but not in this way that citizens have to pay on the basis of court fees, so to get to that number. Also, if one trial, one court dispute, 20,000, the prosecutor has to pay 1,000 dinars and another 4%, which is 1,800 dinars, he has to pay a court fee. If he takes a lawyer for one hearing, according to the information we have, it's 2,400 dinars; if he has multiple hearings, it'll come out about tens of thousands of dinars. One who has to sue someone for a problem may sometimes lose almost half their value if 20,000 were litigation. It's no problem if the prosecutor gets slow and the defendant pays that number, but the problem is if the prosecutor doesn't predict certain details (and 99% of those who sue someone aren't informed on the legal side), loses the process, then there's double damage -- and that damage for 20,000 dinars if someone owes him or did some damage to him, and plus 10,000 dinars of court tax and hearings for lawyers. We think the following segments in our society are important -- the judiciary, the police, the military, health care and education. How are we going to raise our salaries to the rest of them, how are we going to raise our salaries to the cops? This is a major problem in Serbia, and I think that our government should very quickly propose a solution but not through punishment, those penalties that came into effect a few days ago, but that the budget increases the salary of police officers, because we know that police have done a lot for Serbia and the Serb people in the last 10 years and that it has repeatedly protected Serbs, especially in Cosmet, and that police have the highest number of victims. A large number of police officers were killed because it was their obligation to meet where the country was threatened. We believe that the urgency of the courts in this way can be better than it has been before, but the Serbian Unity Party thinks that the law needs to be tightened a little bit. We expect the minister to enter this assembly a stricter law, that all those involved in crime, those who steal cars, will not use in defense the member by whom whoever stole the car can say that he took the car as a loan and then has extenuating circumstances during the trial. We know it's a big problem and all kinds of cars are being stolen in town. It's not like five, six or ten years ago to steal only expensive cars. We think that education is also in a very bad situation and that our government needs to find a model of how to raise salaries to teachers, teachers, teachers, (because it is known that they are raising our respected children) that they can survive from their salary, which has been very small lately. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of the bill because citizens are burdened by taxis. We think it is not good that wages in Serbia are very low and when wages are raised in Serbia, not as many times as taxes are raised, but at least that each of the workers in Serbia can live on their salary, can feed the four-member family, then perhaps we will accept this bill. So the Serbian Unity Party won't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18452	Anybody else answer for a word? The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18453	The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed observers, has been of great importance on many occasions as to why the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes has been withdrawn in due time. For the simple reason why it had to wait for the adoption of a package of judicial laws, in order for there to be some correlation, some logical link between other improvements and financing of judicial employees, and above all, the holders of judicial functions, in order to discuss the situation with the judiciary, or the judiciary budget, and not to hang on one side. That's one reason, the primary reason. On the other hand, it is not true that some of the provisions have not been amended and that some of the items in certain headings have not been reduced. So, so much for that. I wouldn't repeat what's already been said. I claim responsible that the level of court fees provided for by this law is absolutely at the level and perhaps even below that level that was in 1997, when the last change was made. There was a finding that it would not contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary, that it would not contribute to positive changes in the judiciary. I must say, this is not an isolated position of the Justice Department. This bill was made fully in agreement with the holders of judicial functions. The president of the Supreme Court, the Society of Judges and the Prosecutors' Association, therefore, participated in the agreement on the level of certain taxis. We need to raise the level of justice. Among other things, by raising court fees, we must not allow the judiciary to devalue itself to this extent, that judicial proceedings are to the point of losing all meaning, that there is no respect for the judiciary. I also claim that the most endangered layers will not be particularly discredited by the provisions of this law. He's going proportionally, exactly according to the value of the dispute. So it's nothing that's an exception. And when judicial reform is mentioned, they are started on five tracks. The new legislation -- there's been a lot of work done, human change in the judiciary -- we need to separate the wheat from the weeds, we need to remove from the judiciary those who compromised it, those who participated in the mounted political processes, which have been enriched in the judiciary, who in various ways have abused this highest function in one country. The third type of reform is directly related to judicial fees, to the raising of material, organisational, technical and any other level of justice; to the creation of one environment for the affirmation of free and independent judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, after decades, the Serbian Supreme Court received its own building. It was a disgrace and a shame -- I repeat by who knows which time -- Serbia was probably the only country in Europe where the country's Supreme Court didn't have its own building. The building was renovated from donations. We can't just base ourselves on donations, we can't base ourselves on a budget that's modest, restrictive, because unfortunately, this government has inherited empty funds, empty cash registers. It's our legacy from the former regime and then we have to find formulas to raise the level of justice. Education -- I said people were demoralized, depressed, right. Just can't someone with 150 or 200 marks, someone who cares about existential problems, who's threatened with basic existence, to commit themselves to the only job he can do, which is either a judge or prosecutorial function. For the first time in Serbia's history, a representative centre for education has been opened. We are in Europe, in the 21st century, and we must receive the knowledge of modern, European legislation, modern European justice. It's our responsibility. Funding of 2.4m euros for education has been provided. And, finally, the efficiency of the judiciary has been increased. The fees on the agenda are in the function of affirming these basic reform objectives. Serbia will have a free and independent judiciary. It has extraordinary young legal potentials, as rarely a country in the world, and we have no concern for the perspectives of the Serbian judiciary. And this law is exactly the function of that future and these perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18454	Thank you. Since there are no more statements to be made, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in principle. For 137, against 58, the abstentions did not vote five out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on court fees. I am opening a debate on the draft law on court fees, in particular, and we are moving to a decision on amendments. The president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18455	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we will propose that, because of the frequent problems with the quorum, which have longed for some laws, we will shorten the debate in particular in three minutes and thus give ourselves the opportunity to correct everything that has been missed in the meantime. So I ask the Assembly for understanding and support.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18456	Thank you. I'm putting on a motion to limit the debate in particular to three minutes. For 134, against 57, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular will be limited to three minutes after the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, submitr of the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18457	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, when you first talked about the Supreme Court building and that we are the only country in the world, in Europe, that has no Supreme Court building, I can only tell you that we have no Constitutional Court for more than a year and a half, and I think that's a much bigger problem than the Supreme Court building. In today's debate, there is an impression, both at the presentation of the minister and after the presentation of the MPs who defended the bill, that there has been an increase for two reasons -- because of the funding of the courts, that is, the indirect reason, but the most important one is to reduce the number of cases that are unjustly reaching the court. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to pay 500 dinars instead of the proposed 1,000 dinars. Now I'm going to read you what Article 1. - "The latest changes and additions to this law amounted to 250 new dinars in court tax marks." Mr. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia were worth it, so on February 18th, they increased the amount to 750, with a guide, so today it is necessary to raise the tax to 1,000 dinars. Mr. Minister, from all this, you can't see that this tax is paid on litigation, on court proceedings. This fee in tax marks is paid on overtures, on transcripts, on documents, on ownership papers, on contracts, and, Mr. Minister, the question is, what have we been talking about today? So there's not a word about court disputes, and I can ask you, both you and all those who wrote this law -- I don't know what value you're dealing with, how much do you have? I'm not asking that question at all, but I don't think the promoters know how big 1,000 dinars are today. I see you're frowning, so count yourself, if one family has four members and receives 7,500 or 7,600 dinars, what is 1,000 dinars for it? In order for a citizen to exercise his right in court, (which works in the interest of citizens, means that citizens do not exist because of courts, but because of citizens), it takes 1,000 dinars to verify the most ordinary purchase contract, for those who are richer; but, for those who are poorer, who use the courts most for over-prescription, documents, extracting travel documents and so forth... I think because of all this, Mr. Minister, you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18458	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the words of the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18459	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that there has been no adequate Supreme Court building for years. I would remind the minister, he knows very well, that the building in Germany 9, right next to the government building in Germany 11, was bought for the purposes of the Supreme Court, or a certain exchange was made with the Army of Yugoslavia for apartments; and the Supreme Court was supposed to move almost into the adaptive rooms, when there was aggression and when your friends from abroad bombed that building. So the building in Germany's 9 was supposed to be the Supreme Court building. That's what the state thought and cared about. It is not true that we have had such a relationship with the Supreme Court, as you wish to present it. The court fees, of course, and so everywhere in the civilized world, should symbolically cover the material costs in the judiciary, not the financing of employees' salaries and the salaries of judges. This is what is the wrong starting point of our government (and I said already in the principle debate) - regardless of what the citizen has only the obligation to pay taxes properly and to get everything from the state in return and what the state owes him, you further drag your hands into the pockets of our citizens, in order to further finance what you already have from the budget to finance from taxes, excise duties and customs. This is one trick, so that out of these 50% that are allocated to the financing of the judiciary from the court fees, the salaries of the judges can be financed. You should have at least supported that somehow with the relevant data, along with some little elaborate on the number of employees, the average salary, about how much money is collected from these court fees. We can only assume that you care about that total number of 383 million dinars a month, to collect it from all the court fees, and then you measured here - what's most often in circulation, and here you raised the most taxes. Since this is about tax stamps, or tax taxes, up to 1,000 dinars, which are all submissions, lawsuits, complaints, complaints, certificates, obviously the most, and that's where you raised the most tax. Ambassador Arsic of the SRS asked for this increase to be appropriate to the possibilities of our citizens, to increase only twice, i.e. to be 500 dinars instead of the proposed 1,000, as you here predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18460	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 116 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Garčević, the applicant for the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18461	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, gentlemen of Parliament, I expected that after three months we would get something new, not that this assembly would lose its days to such laws, where a harrass was established over the people. I can say, for the sake of the public, that I know - of the 76 amendments, the Serbian Government has found it appropriate to adopt only one amendment, and that of the DOS MP. I guess not all the amendments were so bad; the amendments were directed to a reduction in the basis of disputes, thus reducing the court tax. Me and the SPS representatives don't see a solution just in taxes, but in improving the economy, working, training the economy, creating income that way, and not, like yesterday, what we heard, in taking credit to pay for it, and then we'll pay for those loans in the next period. Gentlemen, when you're saying you're transparent, it doesn't take much wisdom in education to say that the cost of schooling will be so high, we'll raise our salaries to educators; so in healthcare, we'll get less than 11%, and we'll get even bigger there, so we won't be treated. Anyone can do that. Gentlemen, offer from your program to make this people live better, offer the people to raise their taxes as much as our salaries have increased. Then it makes sense and an excuse to defend your views. Everything else goes towards it -- it skins the people, so it'll be good for the authorities because they'll fill the budget. It can be good at the moment, but I think more in the long run, that you won't get anything with this, you're just going to keep making it worse for all citizens, and you're going to get none of them to lead, because they won't have the means to lead it. Who's going to lead the disputes? I think the minister knows best - whoever has the money, he pays to run the dispute. He knows it from his old profession, lawyer. Therefore, if the goal is that only the rich can lead the disputes, then with that, gentlemen in power, you have reached your goal. (President: Time. ) But if the goal, as you say, is to be a legal state; the rule of law is based on the fact that every citizen has access. I must say, you say you've cleaned up the judiciary, you've been complaining that you're not worth anything to the judges and they're not there in Serbia, and today you're saying something else. (President: I warn you of time travel, Mr Garcevic. ) The truth should be looked into the eyes. You're party-shaped courts, and that's true, so you can't settle and you don't know what you're going to do, who you're going to set up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18462	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has accepted amendments to this member of the People's MPs George Mamula and Peter Cvetkovic, and therefore we cannot accept the proposed amendment, although parts of the amendment are identical with the amendment of the colleagues mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18464	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Dragan Colic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18465	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, motivation to submit my amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Taxes is that I consider that the fees for litigation, litigation, annulment of judgments, appeal requests, declaration of termination of the importance of the contract and other disputes that citizens have or need to initiate litigation proceedings, too high. The proposed solutions in this law dramatically increase taxes dozens of times. Law Proposer - The Government of the Republic of Serbia in this proposal only monitored the growth of brands and prices to a small extent, and did not take into account the constant decline of the standard of living and did not aim at discharging courts from unnecessary disputes, but was exclusively in the service of the budget of Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, especially if it is taken into account that fees are paid immediately, not after the end and the legality of court rulings. If that were the case, the court's urgency would be greater and the quality of the verdicts would be better, as judges would avoid their judgments being annulled by higher courts. Serbian citizens, possible participants in the court procedure, will have nothing to pay the court's fees on. No price increase, in any sphere of society, is popular and almost always, as a rule, triggers citizens' revolt. Didn't you get everything you could? It's rare what's cheap. You are left to collect, or to raise the prices of taxis. What about those who won't have anything to pay a court fee from? What's left of them? Will they take justice into their own hands? Won't that pose a real social danger? Gentlemen of the DOS, an increase in prices is something you are constantly offering to Serbian citizens. The violation of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia, the betrayal of Serbian national interests, are the main features and characteristics of your government. If you have played with honor, dignity and the tradition of the Serbian people, as an SRS MP, I do not believe that it will mean anything to you that the court fees will be enormously increased. You're finished, gentlemen of the DOS, the end of your dictatorship is very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18466	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group on this agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dragan Colic has submitted an amendment to Article 2, seeking the correction of the amount proposed by the government. The government's argument, which rejects the amendment, states that the amendment is being rejected for the reason that the amendment of MP Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula to the same member has already been adopted. I just want you to know that it is almost identical text, except in paragraph 2, where MPs Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic asked for the number "12,500" in point 4, 9) and 10) to be replaced by the number "12,500", and the proposal by MP Colic was "12,000". Of course, where the government would adopt some amendment to the opposition MPs, especially the SRS. Amendment of the MPs to the parliamentary majority has been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18468	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 34, out of 182 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18469	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Soviet Union, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 where I request that the value of the dispute be reduced. In Article 2(2), the amount of "5,000" is replaced by "2,500". A minute or two ago, this amendment was accepted, and the proposal was made by Mr. Mamula. So that amendment was accepted. In item 3, the amount of "25,000 dinars" is replaced by "10,000 dinars". That proposal was not accepted in my amendment. It shall be accepted in paragraph 4. - the amount of "5,000 dinars" is replaced by "2,500 dinars". I think it's about ordinary citizens and that the legislator should also accept this item when it comes to divorce. The value of the dispute was "2,500", and it is now proposed to be "25,000 dinars". Otherwise, one who applies for divorce must pay 2,000 dinars in taxes. We think it's too much of a figure, considering that this family has damage, whether the obligation should be paid by a father or a mother. Also, this article provides for trespassing, specifically referring to those minor damages in agriculture, that the prosecutor, if he sues someone, and the value of the damage is up to 5,000 dinars, must pay 1,000 dinars of tax. Sometimes it happens in practice for a lawsuit to happen and when someone can't do damage worth 2,000 dinars. He has to pay 1,000 dinars at the start. We believe that this amendment to Article 2 proposed by the Soviet Union should be accepted because this is about ordinary citizens and agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18470	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 101, the abstentioned were not voted 30, a total of 132 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 3. Article 3 refers to Article 28, which reads: "If, according to the provisions of Articles 21 - 27 of this Act, the value of the case cannot be determined as a matter of dispute, the value is taken", earlier it was "the amount of 250 new dinars", and under the current proposal of the law is "10,000 dinars, regardless of which court is responsible for resolving the dispute". The SRS amendment proposed that there be not 10,000 dinars, but that "250 new" be replaced by "5,000". It means that the tax is twice as small as it's proposed in this law. And you can see for yourself that in fact the tax is actually 40 times larger than it was before. (Minister Batic from the post: It is the basis. That's exactly what he's telling you, and here's the minister asking how, so you figure it out yourself, if it was 250 dinars, and now 10,000. The minister says it is the basis, and that is the government's argument exactly, that the value of the case is the only basis for determining the amount of tax, not the amount of tax to be paid. I'm reading your explanation, what you're just throwing at me. It stands, the alleged applicants of the amendments, that, by increasing the value of the dispute, citizens are making it impossible to achieve legal protection. Thus, if the base increases, the rate of the tax increases. Absolutely and consistent with all the obligations that citizens have, starting with enormous and high bills for electricity, utility taxis, transportation, medicines, it is obvious that Serbian citizens are unable to pay such high taxes. It is possible that Mr Kovacevic has these opportunities, as he gained enormous wealth during the communist rule. Other citizens are unable to do so. Here's another time. I would like to remind Minister Batic, since he said in his previous presentation that there are simply some ingenuities and a problem of jurisdiction between the federal and the republican governments, because some laws are in charge of only the federal parliament. That is correct, there is a Law on Liaison Relations, there is a Law on Procedural Procedure, but I ask Minister Batic -- where the problem is, since he is the minister of justice and local self-government in the Republic government, and that the head of the DOS parliamentary group is in the federal parliament, it is absolutely all in his hands. I don't see any reason why he doesn't start a new law on litigation proceedings in the federal parliament. So these ten-year litigation cases can never be solved for some appropriate period of time, which is why it does not apply its powers and competences... (President: Time and Theme. And to start doing his job at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18472	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18473	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a typical example of replacing thesis. So it's about a value-finding base, not a cab that's been increased 40 times. All we need to do is carefully read the law and not deceive the public that the tax is so increased. So it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18474	Thank you. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, came forward. Here, you've got the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18475	Ladies and gentlemen, just for the public's sake, there are some things we need to clarify. The amendment concerns Article 28. The law on court fees and this is about low-value disputes. It's about, say, plowing a ridge or passing a neighbor from a neighbor's yard through a panel next door, so step on a white bow, this chicken button white onion, this one runs out of garden; it can't be determined the value of the dispute, it's not big, but the man, because it happens to him all the time, wants to sue the neighbor, sue him, and what's going on? Here, according to this proposal of the government, we have a predetermined value of the dispute on 10,000 dinars. That's too much. That's why by amendment, given the very cases we've suggested that it be 5,000 dinars. And that may be a lot, but let's increase, given all the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees. Or, when it comes to a proposal to determine work ability. Or. The neighbors grow nuts from the neighbor's yard, they break his branches, the tree goes to only one side, so the neighbor's tree is dried, the neighbor of course sues the other who's paved his branches, assesses his nut that it might be worth more to him, it might be worth less to him, but we can't say in advance for all these cases that it's 10,000 dinars. It is true that it is not a tax of 10,000 dinars, we, Mr. Minister, are not that ignorant, but the value of the dispute is determined after tax. Now it's not a tax out there in a fixed amount, it's just depending on that order of size. And that's why we're asking for that base to come down, to be more appropriate, and depending on that, there's going to be a tax, of course, less. While I'm here, to invite the citizens of New Belgrade to come to the stands tonight at 1800 hours -- the meat community "Sava" block 45, MPs of the SRS will address them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18476	Right on line, MP Stanko Kovacevic, to present Mr Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18477	If my colleague, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, had the opportunity to get rich during the communist rule, it does not necessarily mean that others were rich during the communist rule. Because, find me a single example of the opposition worker at the time of communism that got rich, then I'll admit that I got rich, too - with a note - if a fellow SRS doctor establish a diagnosis and treats his patients as interpreted by the draft law that's on the agenda, he's pissed off at him and his patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18478	The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18479	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting for the best of intentions to remove these dilemmas and empty stories that taxes are increasing 40 times. This is one of the typical examples. For disputes of this kind, where the base was according to the earlier, existing 250 dinar law, a tax of 100 new dinars was paid. So up to 500 new taxpayers were then 100 new dinars. Given the course marks at the time, it was 30 and a few marks when this law was passed; 3.8 was a mark, and it's easy to calculate. Today it's worth up to 10,000 dinars, which is this case, tax1. 1,000 dinars. Thirty-and-a-half marks again; therefore, it is exactly the best confirmation of what is said -- that the same relationship has been retained in relation to the payload power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18480	Right to replica, MP Aleksandar Vukic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dr Goran Cvetanovic is a man who seems to me, by his work, but also by his sacrifice, showed many here from the parliamentary majority on several occasions how he respected the medical ethics and how and how he helped me before others arrived, and to certain MPs and some other people who were in a difficult state of health, although suddenly caused by it all, I don't understand myself. That's why, not a little bit, but rather untasteful and inappropriate, everything the DOS MP has said from this pay phone is trying to disrespect Dr Cvetanovic, who, by the way, spoke incomparably better, more precisely and more accurately than most MPs or almost all MPs of the ruling majority on the bill, although he did not graduate more legally from the university of political sciences, but rather from the medical college, and he is an honest and honest man. As far as your thesis is concerned about who and in what way at the time of communism or at the time of socialism, or I don't know what you're going to call that period, rich, rich, who's how and how he lived, I'm not left-handed, and I'm trying not to be demagog and I'm not going to criticize you, Mr Kovacevic, for having one of the most powerful firms in the country, that you've earned it honestly, if you've earned it, so you're capable, you can manage, you can make money and what you don't have, your family, if you've had conditions. But don't say that someone didn't let you work, that someone didn't allow you to function, and one of you, not just of the richest MPs, is fine, but you're one of the richest people in Serbia. You can't, of course, compare yourself to Stanko Subotic Canet, but you can't compare yourself to Philip Cepter and other prominent criminals who are operating Serbia under the grain or behind the curtain today, but I don't want to talk too much about it here. Don't demagoguely, now everyone needs to be poor to make someone else happy. I know that the revolution that was carried out was a good part of the left-wing, titoistic revolution. Everything they've been calling for -- and, point fingers, look at him, there's something there. That's what resists those who have 50 of their private stores, you have them here in this assembly hall, and they're among the ruling majority. It's all -- tell this guy or that guy, he's got something, so he can't, and he can't have anything anymore. Such principles cannot be accepted and I think it is much more important for Mr Kovacevic to think about what and what laws, what acts can be provided to the people of Serbia... (President: Time. Time's good, I'll be done soon. So, as well as any legal acts to ensure a better life for the citizens and the people of Serbia, how to provide everyone with higher salaries, but not to increase prices. It is for nothing that someone's salary will be higher, if the prices will go back three, four or five times worse, as it has happened in Serbia in the last year, one year and a half days. If we can do it, then we've done something. If that doesn't work, it's a free story of who it is, what he did 20, 30 years ago. Of course, I'd like to take the opportunity to invite the citizens of 45 block to come to the SRS stands tonight at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18482	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zivodarka Dacin. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18483	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3, which proposes that the amount of 10,000 be replaced by 2,500. In any case, there has been an explanation given here, which all MPs have received with the material, and I would add the following - I would put my signature behind any amendment that proposes a reduction of those court fees in the bill. Why? It is simply because of one basic fact -- looking at the economic miles in which the average citizen of Serbia lives at the moment, it is certain that every new imposition is a great distance from the judiciary. Why am I saying this? To me, it is a clear motive, and I absolutely appreciate that one part of these funds is focused on improving the material status of judicial employees. I said that here once very affirmatively, but we cannot increase taxes, excises, court fees, and on the other hand, the economic situation of the average Serbian citizen is even worse than three months ago when this law was in the process, so withdrawn. Why? Since then, there has been a significant increase in the number of unemployed and there is a trend of growth from day to day more, and it is likely that the group of citizens will be the one who will seek the most satisfaction of their justice in courts. On the other hand, and those who work -- I'm going to give an example of us healthcare professionals: here, we got a profit reduction ranging from 11% to 24%. I truly support that justice should be restored to dignity, but I support that dignity should be restored to all who work in health care, in education, in the field of culture. Simply, everyone deserves to live with dignity and do his job adequately. I have a specific proposal. (I am sorry that Minister Batic came out, since he is also the Minister of Local Self-Government): why don't the few budgets run by local self-government, participated in the value of these court fees, to free our citizens from these court fees, and the managers of local self-government to give up 13 salaries and very high salaries in certain local self-governments, which have long exceeded the very imaginary salary of 1,000 marks for all those working in the judiciary, still without that salary and health care, in education, but also in culture. For all this, I urge you to show at least as a gesture of goodwill that we take care of our citizen and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18484	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 96, the abstentioned were not voted 35, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 93, the abstentions were not voted 36, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18485	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4. The draft law that the Government has referred to the adoption of the MPs is amended by the current Member of the 31st Law, and the government in that member is asking to increase the amount from the current 500 new dinars to 5,000 dinars for cases where the trustee does not indicate the value of the fee rate, nor can it be determined by Article 30 of this Act. We, Serbian radicals, believe that that is enough for 1,000 dinars and that it can cover those costs. It is virtually impossible, on the basis of an increase in the amount of taxes to pay all the costs of potentially increased earnings in the judiciary, although they are necessary, as well as for citizens to pay taxes; much needs to be settled from the budget. Because if we were to go with that logic, then we should introduce exam fees in primary schools, meaning high school grading. How to increase wages to railway employees -- you see them strike these days; how to raise salaries to police officers, soldiers; how to enable people who did not, at the invitation of local government authorities at the time, pay electricity in Nis, and now have enormous debts; how to solve all the problems that these days pressure Serbian citizens, how to solve the problem of those who remain unemployed; how to solve everything that is being solved today in Serbia. The Minister of Local Self-Government and Justice may not have had enough time to come up with a better law, does a very complex and comprehensive job; now he will have 50% of the work to do, since we will have a new minister of local self-government, so he will probably have more time to fix these laws. I urge you to vote in favour of the Serbian Radical Party amendment and not to forget -- tonight, Novi Belgrade, block 45, 18.00 hours, the Serbian Radical Party's tribune.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18486	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18487	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while Serbian Radical Party MPs take care of Serbian citizens and find ways to oppose the Serbian government to pass such laws, some MPs deal with other matters, such as: Today, at the restaurant, one MP collects a petition of MPs demanding that several types of cake be sold in the congregation restaurant. Can you believe it's happening, but, look, it's happening. Of course we didn't agree to sign such a petition. The DOS gentlemen, if they want to be sweetened with cookies, can take a little walk to the Terrace or the Prince of Michael, there are more treats and they don't have to use the congregation restaurant. Article 4. to which Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted an amendment refers to Article 31. The law on court fees in which it is said - when the trustee does not indicate the value of the fee due, nor can it be determined on the basis of a member of the 30th of this law, as the value is taken (as proposed by the Government) amount of 5,000 dinars. Article 30 refers otherwise to the executive procedure and in that procedure, the value tax is payable to the requirement to be executed or provided, and when setting the value of the charge requirement, the provisions of Articles 21 to 28 of this Act shall be applied accordingly. That's what we were already talking about when we tabled the amendment to Article 3. In principle, in all of our amendments, we are looking for a large double tax increase, so we agree to it and we believe that taxes should be increased, but not as unprincipled and up to 40 times, as the government suggests. We believe that duplication of the amount of the tax is enough to cover the material costs of the judiciary, for which the fees should be served, and for salaries not only of the holders of judicial functions but also of the educational workers, health workers, and also of those workers in production, there must be some other way. If we want to have a rich working class, if we have it, and we should have it, then we have to invest in production, and if we want to pay the enlighteners to be bigger, we have to distribute the budget a lot differently than we are now, adopting the Budget Law, we did. When it comes to our judges, Minister Batic today said they travel abroad for education. He misapplyed that term and misqualified it. They don't go for education, they go for instruction. It's a qualitative difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18488	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 90, a abstentioned one, was not voted 40, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 84, there are no abstentions, 49 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ruzic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 5, I asked for the amount of 2,000 to be replaced by 500 dinars, with a reason for the proposed amendment to be achieved in principle by the same nominal increase in the lowest value of the dispute, for disputes of unrated value, as well as for those for which the value has been established. Since the increase for disputes that have been established on average on the proposed scales is approximately 10 times higher compared to the proposed solutions, there is objectively no reason to increase the value of cases 40 times when disputes do not have an estimated value, especially given the payability of Serbian citizens, and that, of course, following your tax laws and after the increase in prices in the Republic of Serbia, and bearing in mind that such disputes with unestimated value will be much. I'm sure Ambassador Alexander Vukitch would probably support something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18490	Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 90, the abstentioned were not voted 39, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, which reads: "Article 33(3) of the word "50 new" is replaced by "200". The bill is to replace Article 5 with the number "2,000". So it's attitude 3 - if the object of the dispute is not estimable, as the value was taken out of 50 new dinars, and now it's proposed to be 2,000 dinars, which is 40 times higher. It's unremembered. If, for the case of a dispute which has now been invaluable in the applicable law, a value of two centuries of bread is taken, as may be proposed for the same purpose 80 centuries of bread. So now we don't talk in marks, we don't talk in dinars, we take some other parity that's far more important to our citizen nowadays. We spend more than a year dealing mostly with increased taxis, fines, taxes. I have the impression that in all past times and the difficult economic situation is actually blamed by the previous government, that it was a bit, when it comes to punishing our citizens, a bit more loose than today's government, and not that the economic crisis, in fact, is the reason why these taxes or penalties, such as those that are now being proposed in traffic, were not so great. Today in this country, except for the death and punishment that are certain nothing is obvious anymore. However, I think that logic of the disciplined people, which is now in action in terms of only hitting him in the pocket, and all of this will come in order, by copying and seeing Germany or some other high-discipline country, will not be so easy for us to bring results. You can't expect the goose to be less underpants if you take off as much feathers as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18492	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Please, the word has been made by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18493	We had a situation discussed by counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic, when the value of the dispute was, it was an amendment to a respected colleague, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, increasing from 250 to 10,000 dinars, and here in Article 5, it is said, (in fact, in Article 33). A law that changes, still in force) - when it comes to a dispute that is not estimable. It can be a lot of things in practice. Because, you know, litigation between neighbors, relatives, which is common with us, entities that want legal protection and judicial protection are being initiated in practice (and that is the right of every citizen of Serbia, or anywhere), and for what the court cannot determine at some point what the value is, because it is not some real tangible market value. For example, if someone parks on the neighbor's lawn, at that point perhaps that's not the right value, it's estimated; however, approximately here it's been given that for such cases it's 2,000 dinars. The question now arises here, although the minister also wanted in the course of a mid-day debate in principle and in the debate on amendments to convince us that there was a graduation, from case to case, how and what formula did these amounts come up with in the first place. Today, at this time, when you say that the mark has its fixed value of 30 dinars, the question arises -- and where are the stamps, because there are no dinars in the pockets of citizens, who are so sad, so poor because of all your moves, and how is it even possible for you to come up with certain figures in this way? Who in the Justice Department thought that one amount that existed in 1995, and the minister remembers what course was the German mark, so he could increase by 40 times? One more thing, there's been talk here all day about the way the independent judiciary is supposed to finance itself by increasing the court fees. Where good luck that it is independent, however, is so politicized by your staff selections, that citizens are not at all in a position to seek judicial protection now, if they have no connection with any member of the ruling DOS parties. On the other hand, they will be hit by this law, like all tax laws so far, because you, from the position in which you are now, from these MPs' benches, and you are in a still comfortable situation, how you bridge all your conflicts, but you are in some mathematics being held in power; you can't imagine that there's one flag worker, who has absolutely no income, who you've deceived, who you haven't paid for the severance, how is in health care, in a metal complex, and how are they going to, through such increased court fees, to seek judicial protection, if they have nothing to live on? It's just that no financial gymnastics is helping them, they have nothing to support their children with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18494	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? There's a minister's word, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18495	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised at the people who don't make such an effort to read the text of the law. This is about administrative and administrative matters. You have heading 28. It's not the lawns, it's not the geese, it's the administrative and accounting disputes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18496	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 39, against 113 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian budget that adopted this assembly, and we Serbian radicals were against such a budget... This amendment to Article 6 of the Judicial Tax Act was not accepted by the committees or by the Government. This could have been expected, since we Serbian radicals want the people to have more money left for existential needs, and it is logical that this amendment to Article 6 has been rejected. Why did this law on court fees increase our people's obligations in the form of these taxis, why do you do that, and you promised the people a better standard and a better life? What better life is that? Are you improving these above-mentioned wishes, which you are unable to fulfill? The court fees aim to allow better conditions in the judiciary, and these conditions promise judges a personal income of 1000 marks. It won't be anything. Woe to our judiciary with this law on court fees. You've had more run-throughs, put in sports language, about these taxes, but you've always pulled it out in time, so I think these taxes will be pulled out of circulation very quickly. I mean people who have a responsibility to pay these taxes, and that's the middle class, which appears the most in court space. All a man does today is a clean fight for life, which is carried out in the form of a consumer basket, and that basket is empty or half empty, so that this amendment to Article 6 suggests that all of these tariffs in this article be reduced and thus allow for a larger remainder to be fought for survival. If we were given back all our funds that were blocked, at $5.5 billion, these fees wouldn't even be mentioned. If they paid us the war damage they did us, these fees wouldn't be mentioned. If we were left alone by all our benefactors, there wouldn't be any of these cabs. Are these taxes going to increase the salaries of workers and judges? Well, that's just a lie. All that's about this law is just a wish. Amendment to Article 6. - "In tax tariff, tariff number 1st century (1) and (2) change and read: - to 10,000 dinars of value - 500 dinars; - over 10,000 to 100,000 dinars of value - 500 dinars increased by 4% of the value of the item slow; - over 100,000 to 500,000 dinars of value - 1,000 dinars increased by 2% of the value of the object of slow; - over 500,000 to 1,000 dinars of value - 5,000 dinars increased by 1% from the value of the object of the dispute; - more than 1,000 dinars of the value of the item, increased by 0.5% from the value of the dispute, and up to 20,000 dinars; - to 10,000 dinars per thousand dinars; - from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars of the value - 1,000 dinars increased by 6 per cent from the value of the value of the object; - from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars per cent of the amount of the amount of the amount of the money. I believe that the proposed amounts for court fees are too large and should be significantly reduced. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18498	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 112 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18499	Dear People's MPs, in the debate in principle, I said that I accepted the reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cited for the adoption of a new amendment law and amendments to the tax law, as the law came into force on 23 April 1994, with amendments on two occasions - 1995 and 1997. It's an indisputable fact, and I think the fees should be increased, but we're not for this huge increase in taxis. It is not true in the reason that the newing of the law proposes a proportionate increase in taxis, i.e. the harmonisation of taxis with changed economic circumstances, with the growth of earnings and prices and other factors that have a significant impact on the collection of the costs of the work of courts. I said then, and now I'm saying that the economic circumstances have changed, but in a negative sense, that profits have been nominally increased, and that the value has dropped significantly, making the standard of citizens at a much lower level than it was, so that would be a great burden for citizens who would be forced to conduct court proceedings and only a small number of privileged people would be involved in court proceedings. In that sense, I submitted an amendment to article 6, where I suggested that the fees on average be reduced by 50% and the tariff in the tariff for the case, the case, the complaint, be filed before the general court of jurisdiction. A technical error has been made, where a value of 10,000 dinars is worth 500 dinars instead of 800 dinars, so for the reason that the error is not corrected by this moment I accept that it is my fault and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18500	The MP withdrew the amendment to Article 6, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in detail. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18501	The DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. I'm going to say very briefly what this article is about. It's a tax tariff on litigation. There's so much change that according to the government's proposal, there's an increased tax. We're starting this article with the exact exact determination of the amount of tax. The current tax proposal was - for the lawsuit, the suit, the complaint brought before the general court, paid according to the value of the case of the dispute. It's an unaltered text and it's from the old law. So far, up to 500 new value dinars -- 100 new dinars. According to the government's proposal, this census has been increased, so it is said: up to 10,000 dinars of value - 1,000 dinars. This is about litigation. This is the largest number of cases in court, especially for courts of general jurisdiction, before municipal courts. It's obvious by simple calculation that the increase is ten times. The lowest tax was 100 new dinars, and now it's 1,000. The lowest tax goes up ten times. We, considering this law in principle, which we supported, pointed out that its improvement is needed, that it is not the fundamental problem of the judiciary and justice in Serbia at the level of the court fees that should represent one part of the financing of judges' courts and salaries. It is not a fundamental problem in increasing court fees, but it is necessary to change the system, i.e. basic system laws and procedural laws. Mr Batic, as minister, but also president of the DOS parliamentary group in the federal assembly, said it was not the jurisdiction of this republic's assembly. Yeah, it's not our jurisdiction, but we've just promised to change, both in the political system and in the judicial system, in the entire system, in the whole society. In any case, we can take initiatives, regardless of our jurisdiction to amend the procedural law or, let's say, the Law on Prosecution, which allows litigation to be conducted for ten or more years. We've been in debt, we are in debt, and we support this law, but we're trying to point out that we need this job to be done in good time and as soon as possible. Since I'm running out of time, but this has been an unreasonable cut, I have to point out in just one sentence. In this amendment that has been rejected, our proposal is to replace the word "business" in this Article with "traded" in terms of economic courts. The government has rejected this amendment, I don't know why. As far as I know, we haven't had business courts in Serbia since 1 January. To which business courts will be paid taxes and why this law foresees paying taxes in front of economic courts, and we do not have those courts. According to the Court Act, we have trade courts. (President: I warn you of time overruns, Mr. Cvetkovic. I will continue around the next amendment, since there is obviously not enough time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18502	The word came from the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18503	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with all due respect to the applicants of the amendments, I must say that the Government cannot accept the proposed amendment because the proposed increase in taxis is not in line with the changed economic circumstances and the increased costs of the work of courts over the past five years. Here's an illustrative example of why this amendment is unacceptable. The amount of tax on charges before courts of general jurisdiction for, for example, the determined value of a case of 20,000 dinars under the applicable law amounts to 800 dinars. According to the proposal on the agenda today, it is 1,800 dinars. It's an increase in tax slightly more than twice, in five years, which you will admit is at least appropriate, even very modest. The amendment promotes a 900 dinar tax. It just doesn't make sense. Calculate, it's simple math. Moreover, with the adoption of the proposed decision on amending Article 8 of this Law, it would lead to an unfair position of natural persons as parties to economic disputes. I would ask the applicants of the amendment to pay attention to that, as applying tariffs to them would depend on whether they have a rival position or not. So, for that reason, it's unacceptable. When a legal-technical editorial of the text is performed, I agree that instead of "business", it should stand "trade". The amendment is adopted or rejected as a whole, parts of the amendment cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18504	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Replica, MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18505	I'm obviously misread, like the entire DSS parliamentary group. Our amendment, in the position of Article 6, is proposed to add the words "entrepreneur" behind the words "as an independent party", precisely because of the practice that happens before business courts, so that a natural person appears there and charges are charged in commercial disputes on the point of which the natural person applies, and then the natural person withdraws from the economic dispute. Then a smaller fee is charged. The intensity was that, in particular in commercial disputes, the full amount of the tax provided for in the commercial courts is charged unless the natural person appears as an independent party. It was our urgency to charge a higher tax, not a smaller one. Obviously we didn't understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18506	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 61, against 91, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18507	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Soviet Union, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and this amendment refers to the kind of dispute that ordinary citizens have before the courts of general jurisdiction, which concerns the lawsuits, appeals and complaints of beatings, as I have told the courts of general jurisdiction, the municipal courts, and the courts that are acting in the second degree on the first-degree judgments of these courts. I suggested that in paragraph 2 in the first indent, the amount of the 10,000 dinars be replaced by "30,000 dinars". This means that the minimum value of the dispute amounting to 30,000 dinars would be paid to 1,000 dinars of court tax. I suggested that in other indents 2, 3, 4 and 5, where taxes are paid in addition to nominal value and in percentage value, to decrease by 50%; so - from 4% to 2%, from 2 to 1, from 1 to 0.5 and from 0.5 to 0.2. The government's answer is that this way the fees would be somewhat lower than they are now. Let's once meet these ordinary citizens who run small-value disputes before the courts of general jurisdiction, so that something this government helps these citizens, at least something cheaper in this country, to at least reduce something. In this way, however, we would help people who are poor to avoid using this poor right, so that they can exercise their right to the courts of general jurisdiction. As you can see, the Soviet Union has not embarked on changing the cabs provided for, when it comes to disputes in front of business and trade courts, because we believe that legal persons ( whether private or state-owned, social) have enough money to pay taxes. However, individuals, i.e. citizens, should be helped in this way and the fees should be reduced. I invite you on behalf of the Soviet Union to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18508	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 113 abstentions, there was no vote of 28, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Zoran D. Nikolic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, according to this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18509	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, was prevented from explaining its amendment, so I, as an authorised representative, will be only in a few lines. Same target and same distance. We here propose a reduction of certain amounts of money provided for in the bill, and these relate to heading 2 which solves three things. The first is related to a solution to the rejection of the suit, the second to a solution that rejects or rejects a proposal for recovery in the previous situation and the third is a proposal for recognition or enforcement of a decision by the foreign court and arbitration. I'll keep your attention only on this first position, regarding the solution to the rejection of the suit. We will recall, these solutions on the rejection of the suit are most often conditioned by the prosecutor's lack of knowledge, as this solution is made in the case of a missing court's actual or local jurisdiction or due to the expiry of the deadline provided for in the application or due to a failed active or passive legitimacy. This means that it is basically the prosecutor's fault or the lack of knowledge of the prosecutor's knowledge is the basis for the court's decision to drop the suit. I believe that these amounts that the government has predicted - 5,000 or 10,000, if these are the disputes that are being brought before a trade court - are the price for one mistake. We suggested that they be 3,000 and 7,000. What we have missed as amendment promoters, now looking a little closer, and also to the Government, there is the minister -- this heading number 2 tells us about the procedure before economic courts no longer exist after judicial reform, so it would be good for the Legislative Committee, or whoever has been authorised, intervened and conducted some editorial in Article 7 concerning this termological correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18510	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have amendedly asked for the correction of Article 7 or heading 2, which refers to the rejection of the suit, where the motioner asks that the tax be increased to 10,000 dinars from 5,000, and we allow an increase of up to 7,000 dinars. Then, for solutions that reject the proposal to return to the previous state, the government is demanding that the 300 dinar tax be raised to 1,000 dinars, and we are correcting it to 500. For a solution to the proposal for recognition and enforcement of a decision by a foreign court or arbitration, a fee is paid under the proposal of the Government of 1,000 dinars (and an increase of 300) before the General Court, and in the process before an economic court is paid instead of 3,000 now 10,000, and we are correcting it to 5,000 dinars. The explanation is clear, we believe that this amount is, and here is said to be half the tax in heading 1 of this heading 2, too large for the solution to dismiss the claim and to return to the previous situation in the business court procedure and that it is not adequate for the economic power of the participants in the proceedings. Because often the party is in a position to re-apply a legally valid suit, let's say, if a bankruptcy proceedings were initiated, at least two days before she filed a claim for the determination of the claim, the bankruptcy administrator refuses and points it to a lawsuit, where she has to pay the tax to determine again, means twice the same thing. Or, when it comes to attitude 6. - Let's say, a motion against a proposal to execute, and if the party is at least one day late, the court will determine that the deadline has passed and has to re-pay the return fee for the previous situation. So it happens that this is often doubled, not by the guilt of the participants in the process, and that money is repeatedly drawn from people's pockets quite unnecessaryly. That's why we're asking for significantly less taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18512	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 18, a total of 175 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rada Bajic and Milorad Mircic submitted the amendment to Article 8 of the same text. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment, MP Rada Bajic, want a word? No, he's not there. National MP Milorad Mircic, submitr of the amendment to Article 8. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18513	This amendment, as well as most amendments to the SRS, has the intention or aim to reduce this increase proposed by the government. Understandable is the reality in which judicial and judicial authorities work. What's realistic on the one hand is that these fees should contribute to the improvement of the work of judicial and judicial authorities, and on the other hand, one life reality is imposed, where purchasing power or the real economic power of the population is not in line with this proposal. We, Serbian radicals, in each amendment (you could see) suggest that it be approximately some real values, that there be an increase in the tax double, not as the government suggests - three times as much. It is up to the government to decide and assess what this reality is, and we still feel that it is this much increase. It is up to you, most of you, to accept or reject this amendment. It all depends on your voices.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18514	Thank you. The word came from the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is a comprehensive proposal, especially as it will not affect the meaning of the law more, so that on behalf of the Government, I can accept the amendments of the People's MPs Milorad Mircic and Rade Bajic to Article 8 and, for symmetry, this will also apply to amendments to members of the 9th People's MPs Lazar Marjanski, Branko Ruzic and Zoran Radovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18516	I thank the minister. So, the government has accepted this amendment, but since the committees haven't, I'm putting the amendment to vote. The Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment. I conclude the vote and I conclude: For 137, the four, abstentioned five, did not vote 28, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? You're pulling back? I find that MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula have withdrawn this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ružic and MP Lazar Marjanski. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. So the government accepted. The committees did not accept the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 9. For 136, against four, abstentions 8, 25 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you are, MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18517	Since the previous amendment, very similar, even by amounts, is almost identical to that submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, accepted by the government, we are giving up on our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18518	I find that MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula have withdrawn this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18519	According to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal to extend the work until further notice after 1800 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18520	I'm putting the motion to vote so we can extend our working hours. For 81, against 37, abstentions 8, they did not vote 22, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to extend the working time until further notice. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18521	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm still here. Don't think you'll see my back very soon. (Veselin Jankovic: Where are yours? My parents will come, don't be afraid. He'll come again, whether it's New Year's or Next, we'll see, but he'll come. (Alexander Radosavljevic: No. They will, they will. (Alexander Radosavljevic: No. He will, he will. (Alexander Radosavljevic: Not possible. He will. He will. He will. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10... (Borivoj Katic: Sloba will not come to you.) I'd ask you to stop time, and those who don't know what they don't and what they want, to shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18522	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18523	They only know how to interfere, and they don't know anything else to talk about. Can we get the time back? I don't want to talk when you're talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18524	Please, let's listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18525	I don't want to talk until I get my time back. So, I'll finish when it's five minutes and I'm asking you to remind me then. Who is this member protecting? This member has been offered a fee... Throwing it out of the O.R. This is really incorrect and uncivilizing and only cattle can do something like this. Under the conditions of low incomes and an extremely impaired standard of living for our citizens, the proposed increase in court fees directly undermined citizens' rights, as well as the right to debate the legacy. The proposed amendment creates the possibility of paying a lower amount of tax for the legacy of a lower value, which is mainly related to poorer households, as well as a higher value of a tax on the legacy of high value. And I specifically stated in this case how much anyone will pay for what value, which means that it is confirmed that it is not true that what is stated in the basis of this law that each of them should pay, in proportion to their material opportunities and social status, the amount of the tax on the value of the property covered, or the value of the legacy covered by this article. That's why I suggested that Article 10 of heading 7 changes and it says - up to 5,000 that the tax is 150 dinars; I don't think there are any or few such disputes. For values from 5,000 to 20,000 to 300 dinars, while the government suggested another 2% of the legacy value. Over 20,000 to 50,000 - 600 dinars, and the government proposed 700 dinars plus 1.5%. Over 50,000 to 200,000 - 1,500 dinars plus 1%, and over 200,000 legacy values - 1,500 dinars increased by 1%, while the government proposed 3,450 dinars plus 0.5%. You see, as the value of the assets rises from 5,000 to 200,000 dinars, the percentages are automatically reduced to the value of the legacy. As a result, I suggested that the value be paid at a fixed amount, and that only for the value of more than 200,000 dinars is paid 1%, from the value of the legacy. For example, the amount of the 500,000 dinar legacy, which is about 16,000 marks, should be paid 5,950 euros in taxes, and over 2 million dollars should be paid. I'd like to pay a fee of 10,000 dinars and get the value of a $2 million legacy more than I pay 8,000 dinars and get a million dinar legacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-19-0.u18526	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. In four, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 17, a total of 125 MPs, which means we have no quorum and we will continue at 10.00 hours, and until further notice there was an extension of five minutes. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 145 MPs attend today's session. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have established that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly and we begin the work by notifying the absence of the MPs. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Stevan Lilic, Dragoslav Bošković, Nada Kolundžija, Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Jočić, Djordje Čukvas, Vojislav Doshen, Pal Shandor, Ratimir Svirčević, Dusan Budišin, Milutin Saleskovic, Zoran Bošković, Petar Misic, Nebojsa Leković and Jožef Kasa. Alen Selimovic and Ljubodrag Grbic are away this afternoon and Neda Arneric is away this afternoon. The delay was announced by MP Momcilo Trajkovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that representatives of the National Movement "Resist" and representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have been invited to this session. (Pal Shandor from the scene: I am present. All right, I would like to inform you that MP Pal Shandor is present at the session. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes (Substance in Details) I remind you that the debate on the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, in particular, was interrupted due to the lack of quorum which was found during the vote on the amendment to Member of the 10th People's MP Ljubomir Mucic. I put the amendments of the MP to Article 10 to the vote. For 28, against 116 abstentions, four of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Stevan Kesejić, the applicant for the amendment to Article 10.
