ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20727	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 160 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a break of ten minutes. I also remind outsiders that they are obliged to participate in the quorum, i.e. to participate in the work of the Assembly, because, let's say, in order to operate minority governments in the world to use such a thing in parliaments. [[After break - 12.00.]] I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending, the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radomir Naumov, Vlatko Sekulović, Momcilo Trajković, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Miroslav Markicevic, Milutin Svetović, Branimir Trajković, Vladan Radovanović, Kermeci Karolj, Ružica Veljović, Branko Beševic, Milos Lučić and Melank Shandor. Dragisa Marinkovic and Vasilija Pavicevic are absent for the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I'd like to introduce the guests present. Before continuing to work on the agenda, one notice: The Committee on the Protection of the Environment of the National Assembly launched an initiative, supported by the MP groups DOS, DSS, SPS and SSJ, that the MPs in the session's break Monday 22 April crew of the 20 seedlings of cedar in the Tasmajdan Park. The start of the campaign is scheduled for 14 hours and 15 minutes on the plateau outside the Russian church. The funds for the seedlings will be provided by volunteering out half of the MPs who want to participate in this action, and in this way the MPs will mark the 22nd April - Day of the Planet. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE LAW ON THE BASE SCHOOL (joint principle search with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on High School) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 90, a joint principle of law on proposals proposed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools. National MP Zarko Obradovic, a proposal to the Businessman.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20728	Fellow MPs, since two laws are being discussed today by the Assembly, agreeable to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the SPS parliamentary group, are asking for the Assembly to declare that the total time of the debate is ten hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20729	I would like to put to the vote MP Zarko Obradovic's proposal that a joint principled search takes ten hours. For 54, against 116, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Gašo Knezevic, Minister of Education and Sports, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20730	The Honorable Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, this year ends ten years of validity of the Law on Fundamentals and the Law on High School. I'm already a flow of time, in dynamic matter, can be sufficient reason for legal interventions. If it is added that the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Serbian Government has set this year as a year of fighting three principles, which is estimated to have been the top principles of legal regulation for primary and secondary school, the need for change in this matter has become even more pronounced. These three principles are: the principle of centralism in decision-making, the principle of politicisation of education and the principle of low democracy. So, as this year of fighting for three "d" - depoliticalisation, decentralisation and democratisation, the need for amendments to the law was logically imposed. The promoter is fully aware of the fact that the proposed changes do not lead to a completely new legislative regulation. Our institutions, schools, teachers and students, our system requires continued fine work on raising quality, which, when achieved, should be crowned by a general, indicative, roof law on education. As a predecessor to this text, it would also have to serve our position on what kind of basic school structure we want, how long will it take us to have primary and secondary education and curricula reforms that will promote new content and methods of work in schools. The answer to most of the questions already exists in the Ministry of Education of Sports, they are known to the public mostly in broad lines, but it is not yet time for their legal tuning, because we do not want someone to transfer us to breaking our knees and not allow participatoryness in decision-making. A professional broad public debate is necessary. That's why the proposer chose the trip in three steps. The first one, which is now in front of you, aims to fight for our three "d", which would be finalized by the new principle of education, by its professionalization. The Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities, which is applied under the Law on Public Services, would regulate, primarily, the issue of labour law and we expect that at the end of this year, this second step would bring work legal status into line with this law. There will be five fundamental changes that we achieve through legislative intervention. Our fight for the three above mentioned "d" comes to terms in the first domain of change, in the domain of school management. According to current practice, the school was run by the director, appointed by the minister, and by the school boards. In the appointment of the director, suspicions were open, part of the decision could have been politically colored. This team before, in spite of the possible interest of ministers who have led this country's education for the last 10 years, is difficult to assume that they and the authority knew about 2,000 people, how many directors they had appointed. Some closer insight into the skills and ability of these people is even less valuable to talk about. That is why our changes are primarily directed towards this field: the decision on the selection of directors is made, according to the bill that is before us, by the school committees, not by the minister who only gives consent to the chosen one. The school boards, meanwhile, are the second changes and they are three-partitically established - consisting of three representatives of local government(self-government), three representatives of collectives (school staff) and three representatives of parents. Thus, the promoter showed what interesting social groups he considers interested in the fate of the school. These are municipalities in whose territory schools are located, a collective of schools and parents whose children attend those schools. The promoter believes their interest in the same level and importance, and the number of their representatives in the school-run body is identical. This is mentioned because in the process of passing laws, and through amendments, there have been two more expressions, we would say, contrary to seeing problems. One has advocated the supremacy of employees, five employee representatives; it is basically a proposal for a union that exists in education, backed by a warning strike. The second, more sophisticated, stood for the supremacy of the municipalities. The proposal is of the opinion that the first proposal is only a step away from self-management, although the trade unions present self-government to the promoter. At the same time, it leads to confusion of management and work function, because it reminds, economically speaking, of insider privatisation that is not even a dominant type of transaction in our economy. The second proposal is only a step away from politicising the school, and we do not prefer it. In particular, we note that no well - meaning person can dispute their parents ’ interest in the fate of the school their children are going to. This follows their right to manage, which is a very present trend in modern world legislation, somewhere dominant. We believe that the expression of this trend is in the number of representatives of these in the school's governing body. The promoter is already preparing a guidebook to be delivered to the school population, in order to inform and educate those interested in working on school boards. However, the director's appointment procedure contains another component. The appointment of the director is first declared by the collective, so teachers. The school board, truth be told, is not bound by the collective's decision, but it's taken into account. If the collective decision and the school board differ diametrically, the minister can deny his consent and thus become an arbiter protecting the collective from the will of the school board, or vice versa. Also, fine adjustment can be achieved by this consent in the event of a need to protect minority rights, or directors in schools that attend primarily minority schools. In both cases, a new competition is under way, so when the minister intervenes, and until its expiry, V.D. appoints a school board. Finally, a parent’s advice as a new body has been introduced to high school, which so far existed only in primary schools and has been specified in jurisdiction. This promoter, in yet another way, has shown that he appreciates the parents ’ interest in the work of schools that their children attend. Advocating the principles of depolitisation and democratisation has been expressed in the second amendment to the law, the one concerning the protection of groups and individuals against discrimination and students from physical punishment and insult of personality. With its grip on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, provisions on the prohibition of every form of political, religious, racial action and every form of child abuse have been introduced. In the Committee on Education of the Serbian Parliament, it was the idea to allow some kind of religious action, but with a reason to celebrate, for example. The Holy Sava is not forbidden today, but the majority view that such activity, including religion, should not be particularly regulated by this law. This especially doesn't mean that it won't be possible to celebrate school glory in the future, if the school has one. This, at the same time, does not oppose the idea that will later be spoken of, which is the introduction of religious teaching, because it is introduced as an educational-experienced, not as a religious subject. In addition to fighting for a better and better quality school, for its professionalisation, the law provides for the separation of two functions of the supervisory service. Administrative supervision is separate from the expert-pedagogical, with the intensification that educational inspectors, who carry out the first type of supervision and are normally graduated lawyers, move to the level of the city and municipalities, and that educational advisors stay with the ministry and carry out professional - pedagogical supervision, and they are not lawyers and their work content is quite different. In doing so, the concept is that those in the function of controllers move into the function of support of the system, to hold screening lessons and so on. The change in their role will be achieved by changing sublegal acts, by further training and by reorganising their service, primarily by rejuvenation. In the same direction is the next change, namely, the construction of the professional advancement of teachers, i.e. the introduction of new teaching calls, and the pedagogical advisor, mentor and instructor and senior pedagogical advisor. The sublegal act will not measure the progress in the ministry only during its time, but also through professional training, which has been highly updated and revived in the ministry's work. Our goal is for the proposed titles to be given their economic expression, so that teachers pay in certain titles differ, which also affects the motivation of school teachers. It goes without saying that it is also a guarantee of the quality of our children's education and better preparedness of tomorrow's staff. Finally, the fifth and last changes are directed towards the need for democratisation, which is mentioned in the opening statement, although there are other changes, also significant and concerns election classes, i.e. the controversial introduction of religious education and civic education into the education system. I think it is necessary to first realize that the laws are made for the needs of people, that someone's rights are guaranteed, that someone's rights are constraint. The introduction of religious teaching, above all, was followed by a heated media debate, a debate that threatened to redistribute this country, which everyone and everyone else would normally share when they wanted to. That was the first disturbing fact. The arguments of pro et contra are being made, stronger than the stronger, full of speaking skills, which was good, but also bile, which was bad, inscribed in the whole story. When the decision was taken and the cases were introduced, some of the country's agencies conducted a survey among citizens on the acceptability of such a solution. Poll results show that the country's people are mostly behind and accept the introduction of new cases. If this, in an exact sense, is so, we believe that the proposer and the Government, as a whole, must give up their personal affinities and attitudes, except in the Assembly, where they must be represented and supported by the will of the citizens of this country. Therefore, not only the Universal Declaration, the European Convention on the Protection of Rights, the final act of the Helsinki Convention on Security and Co-operation, but, above all, the will of the Serbian people. At the same time the objection, at first sight, is acceptable, that according to the Constitution of this country the church is separated from the state, to be shot down by a simple finding that religious teaching is not introduced as a dogma, ideology, but as a educational - educational content that has the right to its place in the system. Also, civic education, as an object, has been introduced into many curricula in Europe and the world and represents a civilizational liquid, and we have brought our education closer to the modern teaching trend in the world. Another difference between two types of introduction of new objects into the system has been observed for educators. While during the last school year, the mentioned items were in academic vision, their electoral vision is proposed for the future. The difference is the degree of obligation, i.e. the selectivity. For a university subject you can, but you don't have to, resist, while some of the electoral items must be selected. That's the difference. However, if it is known that there will be a future change in access to objects, that there will be a so-called programme skeleton and a greater number of electoral items, and that each student, or parent, will affect the structure of the subjects that their children are studying, the difference ceases to have such weight. If it is added that the choice made obligates children for a year, and that every year next year it can change it, loses its significance and possibly object to pressure, coercion. The key reason to understand is that only in the case of election cases can the necessary spatial, financial, human and technical conditions be provided in due time. There is always a risk of unpredictable change or a decline in interest to carry out a course in university subjects, resulting in a lack of quality teachers and inability to plan financial needs or a lack of necessary space to carry out teaching. In addition to the principle of introducing new items into the system contained in this law, which has left out the need for the current regulation, and some other aspects, consequences, are regulated by the same text, primarily working relations and pay of teachers. So we circled the system and legalized two new objects in it. Of course, there are other changes that merit attention, such as the change in the date of the organisation of the correction exams, as a result of the new regime of admission exams, the process of classifying children distracted in development and the like. The changes are minor, so I won't mention them at this time. The idea of the leaders of the proposed changes is, as is said, a struggle for three "d", finalized by professionalism. Raising and controlling the quality of education, which is an additional imperative of the Ministry of Education and Sports, cannot, unfortunately, be achieved by law. They also assume better economic conditions throughout the country, and our hope is to move towards them. The promoter is aware that the proposed changes have tried to set up a partially new system. On that system, it will endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20731	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, President of the Education Committee, MP Predrag Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20732	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with two abstentions, the Education Committee has adopted drafts of the law on primary and secondary schools. Since these laws hit a large part, almost a whole population, I urge you to support the proposal of the Educational Committee in a civilised debate, without ideological prejudice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20733	Thank you. Is there a statement from the other committees in charge? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs who have issued an opinion on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Bora Stanimirovic, who delivered an opinion at the meeting of the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20734	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I have given my opinion for a number of reasons, but I will pay attention only to what is probably new in this law. We certainly expected that in the year of reform, at least as much as we announced, there would be a new, purified law, both on elementary and on high school. This is about some changes, to solve some of the current problems, which, hand to heart, may not deserve to be in this law. First of all, I'm thinking about what's going on in the curriculum, and what's in the teaching program, and especially the introduction of religious teaching, or religion. On the Education Committee, on several occasions, we discussed this problem. It is that the discussion was contrary, but at least at the beginning one opinion was raised: it is necessary to introduce religious teaching or religion into schools, but when conditions are matured. What was the situation today? The proposal mostly stemmed from the fact that it was best to leave religion to the church, first of all, which could do it. If a developed France can do so, if some European countries can, where the church is separate from the state and where religious teaching takes place outside the school, then it is likely that the proposal, which was first voted on by the Education Committee and received the greatest support. But later on, who put pressure on everyone, the religious scientist suddenly entered school, or school, and that was since first grade. So we came into one situation so that one number of students, like first class, would listen to religious instruction and another to civic education. So we practically share students with believers and unbelievers, whether we like it or not. We've been dividing ourselves for 50 years into Chetniks and Partisans, and now for the next 50 years we'll be sharing students with believers and non-believers; after 50 years, whether or not they'll be Serbs and whether we can share, about that later. Secondly, when it comes to Article 14, it says that the kind of preparation of teachers of religious teaching is determined by the minister of education, at the joint proposal of the Ministry of Religion and the traditional churches and religious communities. I don't know if all of this will be able to agree, if it's done by the Minister of Faith, the Minister of Education and all the religious communities. Then that's exactly what I was saying earlier, that it was far better for the church to take over religious teaching and to perform the religious course as planned. And this is especially when it comes to the kind of school prep or teacher's prep. This is determined by law, it is determined by the statute of the school possibly or by some other normative act, but it cannot be a minister and various other religious communities to determine school preparation. So it has to be defined and cannot be changed from year to year. Furthermore, when it comes to the election, the minister spoke mostly of the election of directors, she famously three "d". I don't think that came true. The Minister of Education and Sports agrees on the school board's decision to elect a school director no later than 15 days from the day of its decision. What if the minister doesn't, the procedure goes back again. I mean, it's much better to leave it to schools, or local self-government, not the Ministry of Education, when it comes to the selection of directors. It is certain that any local environment will know better the opportunities in that school than the Ministry can. This is especially because we have experience that so far has been a practice that the school boards have made proposals for individual candidates, that they have called competitions, that there have been two candidates, that one candidate has received for example. More than 90% of the vote, and the other slightly less than 8% of the vote, and it happened that the minister was proposing some candidate who wasn't even in the competition. But it is a practice, probably not to be repeated later, but it is certain that the better proposal was, and the proposal was in amendments, that local self-government could speak more about the director than the ministry. Next, the composition of the school board -- we heard this relationship 3+3+3 just now. Please, who's the most interested in the work of the school, are those who live from that school, or are they just parents, or local Samoa management? If we have passed the Law on Local Self-Government, then it is normal that it is local self-government and employees, and fewer parents, because parents are only interested in school for the time when students are at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20735	The floor was addressed by MP Pal Shandor, who held an opinion at the session of the Committee on International Relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20736	Dear colleagues, before I begin to explain what I object to the law, I must say that the intensity of the change is fundamentally acceptable and that I agree, of course, with this direction that the Ministry has taken. I think it's logical, that it's good, that we should work on it consistently and that it should be extended in that direction. But there's nothing in the law that's supposed to be. I didn't write any amendments, because what I wanted to change and what I wanted to bring to the debate, it can't be changed by one amendment or by one member; and then we'd be in a position to take Slobodan Jovanovic, so we can interpret that it's an alternate opportunity to change members who aren't the subject of change themselves, but they're in the basic text, and that would lead us to a legal dead end of competition - whether they can write an amendment or not. So, changing the law is an opportunity to change every member, even the one that, for example, does. The government or someone else didn't propose to change. But I want to say something important for the moment of society where we are now, in transition, that's what the new government stands for, and it's important because Mr. Micunović is in Strasbourg today, so he'll ask him - and Mr. Micunović, what did you do? That's the problem I want to point out, and that's that there's no bill, that's the problem, that's the possibility that everyone has the right to start schools, as it says in the Law on Public Services. I mean, and I'm telling you all about it, son, the et studio, that the first thing that needs to be done and that the government needs to make criteria -- how these schools are formed; and now I want to publicly articulate that interest to go in that direction. So, the Law on Public Services says in Article 3, "In order to ensure the exercise of the rights established by law and to achieve second law of established interest in the fields of education, science, culture, physical culture, student and student standards. They form sessions"; then in Article 4, he says, "The institution, etc. they can form the Republic, an autonomous province, a city, a municipality and (which is particularly important) other legal and physical persons." This means that the school, under the provisions of the Law on Public Services, can form both the Republic, and the province, and the city, and the municipalities, and other legal and physical persons. That, of course, is not possible in our laws now. I think we should change it so that the law allows that possibility, and the standards that need to be met, it's a very strict regulation by the Ministry, so that no one, anywhere, can form schools in an unserious way. If we have now discussed that it is possible and necessary to allow schools to be formed by privates and any other legal and physical person (this, first and foremost, of religious communities, I have spoken of it many times; Milosa Crnjanski did not mind to remain a good Serb even though he went to school with the friars of pirates in Timisvar; this school was not spiritual, but was very worldly and very quality), when we start from that principle to what is with national minorities, then Serbia has a whole series of international documents and conventions that she has signed undertakes to go in this direction to do something. I will, in order to support my initiative to have a serious conversation, mention some of it. The UNESCO Convention on Combating Discrimination in Education, Article 5, says: "It is necessary for members of national minorities to recognise the right to engage in their own educational activities, including school management, and that, according to the educational policy of each country, they can use their own language and teach on it." So, your own schools within the system prescribed by the state, that for me, of course, nothing is disputed. The second meeting of the conference on the human dimension of KEBS, Copenhagen in 1990, item 32, says "Members of the national minorities have the right to establish, in accordance with national legislation, and their educational, cultural and religious institutions." So it's yours, not the ones the state founded on their behalf, but theirs. A second report from the KEBS meeting on national minorities, Geneva in 1991, says "States will provide financial and technical assistance to members of national minorities, who want to exercise their right to establish and run their own educational, cultural and religious institutions, organisations and associations". Recommendation 1201/93. which refers to the Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, in Article 8(2), says: "Faces belonging to a national minority have the right to establish and manage their own schools"; or, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, Strasbourg 1995, Article 13(1) says: "In the framework of the education system, foreign Contracting Parties will recognise the right of members of national minorities to establish and manage their own private institutions for education"; etc. Therefore, the intensity of what I'm talking about is that the state must, firstly, have the right to start schools, to remove ideological blockades from the school system, and to enable initiatives as well as in all other areas (health care, private entrepreneurship, industry, etc.). And then, of course, minority members have the right to manage their own school system. But private schools don't mean that anyone starting a school doesn't get any grant from the state for it, but that, within the quota per student's head, the institution does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20737	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20738	Mr. Pal Shandor and I have already discussed, he has asked the Ministry of Education and received a written answer to the question. We agreed that he would give his opinion, which is completely legitimate. There are two questions - private schools and minority schools. As for private schools, the government of the Republic of Serbia, as opened in all segments, is also open in education. The problem is that by opening the door wide to private schools, we don't lead to a drop in the quality of teaching. That's why the standards he mentioned are very important, and that's what they're all about. As far as national minorities are concerned, I would draw your attention to you, I am sorry that Mr. Micunovic probably doesn't know, and there in Strasbourg, we have passed the omnibus by law for now on to the self-Vojvodina, but we intend to give others the right not only to education in our own language, but also to create objects that are nationally colored, such as history or native language, so I don't think there is any misunderstanding of the Ministry of Education - Minority, any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20739	The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, who gave an opinion at the Committee on Education session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20740	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Associates, I have issued an opinion at the Committee's session for a number of reasons. Now I will take the opportunity to quote three and look back at Mr. Minister's exposure, which says that all these legal regulations and all what the Ministry offers are democratisation, depolitisation, decentralisation. Dear Minister, if you thought you were depolizing the school, then you shouldn't have allowed yourself in schools, depending on who the director was appointed from, from which party, to a working relationship you couldn't accept unless you signed an access card. Please... (Glass Hall - not true. You don't get it. Furthermore, if you wanted to depolitize, you should not have allowed yourself, along with the Prime Minister, who is also the president of the political party (i.e. you can as minister, when very important facilities), to visit schools. Instead of in the economy, you talk to the students in this way doing the politicization of the school. Furthermore, how can you prove that there is no politicization, that there are no pogroms of staff that have worked, in your report that was for the end of 2000 it says that you have replaced 1,000 directors of secondary and primary schools. Well, you're not going to convince me that it's not politics, that it's not about politicizing education, and that there was no quality frame among these people. If we take into account that democratisation is a return to collectives, a return to students, and they can also accept -- parents up to a certain limit, who can participate in the work, then the question is that you have promised education workers that they will be a decisive factor that will participate in the work and management of the school, for general interest, with the full control of the service that needs to do so. What have you offered now? You've offered a solution that doesn't bounce away from previous solutions, that you'll find parents who will invest, etc. Parents can also act through parenting, but we forgot the factor - students; they still stayed away. I believe that democratisation is a belief in 100,000 educators, who belong to the order of the most educated structure in this country. If you don't trust what you promised me, I do, and if they'd listened to me in certain moments, it would have been. Look at the memos you got. Let people in education think for themselves, respecting the legal provisions that exist. Depolitisation and democratisation means - remove all obstacles, so that your choice of directors is not a political definition. You are looking for quality people, and you will only be able to find them as I suggested, which is - either through the composition of the school board, or more than 50% of the collective employees must be declared a secret vote. You ignored both, with the reasons of our committee, that it would disrupt relationships in education and in minority that they did not know how to choose such a man. They can do that in education. Let education be the bearer and headquarters of all that, because you've been telling and trying through your stories in the previous period to do so. Another addition should be considered - that you will eliminate 1,000 (or less) people in the next period, and that information should have been suggested; that we have school secretaries; what is the basic question – what is this reform? Civil education doesn't lead anywhere; instead of eliminating some other messages and offering a number of content; further, managing schools, which means further politicizing schools, and in words you're pushing for another; I would accept that the highest quality goes forward; and the third would be leaving people out of work. If that is the essence of this law, or the amendment and addition proposals, then they cannot agree with such a substance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20741	Thank you. The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20742	I have to admit, I love this ex-post mind so much. For ten years, you've been politicizing, and now that you've lost most, you're suddenly expressing suspicion that we're going to do the politicization in the future. Well, my lords, it's the first time it's downgraded. We said it ourselves - we won't name it. Well, don't doubt it, don't transfer us for what we certainly did democratically. No director has lost his job since I was set up. That's the first one. Secondly, no director has been replaced without his mandate or it has been found not to have worked legally well. We replace the directors who are appointed for my term of office when they do not enforce the law; that is, they will be replaced. They have to stick to the law. Do you want me to give you examples? I won't go public. I'll give them to you in four eyes. Your next remark applies to students; they cannot manage schools, either way, but we must not allow participants to manage schools. And finally, the school secretary's problem. No secretary who doesn't have a high level of expertise, which is a request in the future, will lose his job. A sublegal act is being prepared that provides for them to move to administrative affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20743	Thank you. Whether National MP Dragisa Djokovic is present, who also issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on International Relations. It's not, as far as I can tell. We continue to work on the discussion of representatives, or the president of parliamentary groups. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20744	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against adopting a bill on amendments and additions to the Charter of Fundamental and High Schools discussed today by the Assembly. The Socialists will vote against the proposed laws, as the issues discussed in them are better and more fully resolved through existing laws, while new issues are not resolved in the interests of pupils and society in general. The DOS is also concerned in this case not with the essentials, the promised reforms of education, but with cosmetic changes, which also have bad consequences. Allow me to give some examples in addition to this claim. First, there was no need to amend Articles 7 and 8 of the primary and secondary school law, which concerns the same issue, which is a ban on political action in schools, for the simple reason that this issue is fully regulated by existing solutions. To remind myself, there is the same provision in the existing laws: political organisation, operation and use of school space for those purposes is not allowed in school. Amendments and additions to the law on this issue do not essentially bring about anything new, I can even say that political action through less words is knowingly put an end to banned activities in schools, virtually minimises, in order to implement the small door in practice. Political action has been in the near past, and it has it today, but in a more subtle vision. Several times in the past decade, whenever there was a political need for the opposition at the time, and using a complex state of education, teachers, members of the political parties of the then opposition, some of whom and representatives of the current government, knowingly abused their call for an educator, broke their personal and political dissatisfaction over the back of students, interrupting teaching, taking them for a protest walk, putting purely political requirements before the state. Today, the current government is doing it much more subtlely. As part of a pre-election DOS campaign called "Serbia on the Right Way", the government's president and resolute minister whenever they travel together, which they do very often, regularly visit schools and recruit future voters and supporters. It could be understood that the Prime Minister or the Minister visit a school, in order to, say, convince themselves on the spot of the conditions of the school or to attend the opening of a new facility, school, library, sports halls or the like. However, as this is not the case, since the government has not raised any new facilities in the past 15 months, it is more than obvious that the political activity of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the abuse of schools and students for political purposes and in the functions of the government of Serbia. So, if the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a legislator of these laws, advocates that there is no politics in schools, then it has to act like that, not that one is talking, another is doing, which is obviously becoming a pattern. Secondly, they are being introduced as mandatory electoral subjects of religious teaching and subject matter of ethical-humanist content established by the minister of education. What is this subject of ethical humanistic content? Is there a similar object somewhere? That'd be good to hear. Parents, or guardians of primary school students, or high school students, undertake to select one of the two subjects when enroling in the first and next classes. That means you can change the subject every year. What will it be, if one year is chosen, and the second year is the second election item? The draft law provides that the electoral instruction of one or other subjects is to be carried out regardless of the number of students who apply. Therefore, a minimum number of students can be reported and teaching must be performed. When it comes to religious continuation, I must say that we Socialists are not against religion, but since the church is separated from the state and the faith should be out of school. To remind, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 41, it is said: "Religious communities are separate from the state and are free to perform religious affairs and religious rituals. The religious community can establish religious schools and charities. The state can help the religious communities in substance." If the state really wants to single out the money needed for educational work, then it can do it properly, and this is how the church gets dragged into the state. At a small door, all religious communities, regardless of the number of students, are introduced to schools. In order to carry out religious teaching and subjects of ethical-humanist content, large funds will be needed. Which is the sum, you can guess. The government's data on secondary schools say that for civic education and religious education, as academic subjects, 82.1 million dinars were allocated for the first eight months of 2002, and for this second-grade course and first-class election classes for the next four months close to 103 million dinars. We can imagine a situation in national-religious mixed environments, where it will be necessary to pay a lot more teachers for religious teaching. For example, at one mathematics class, one teacher teaches for 30 students, and in religious teaching there can be one teacher, and the student can be one, two, three or more, and all teachers for each religious community should be paid. So we believe that these items should not have been an integral part of the teaching and that these large material resources could have been used for other purposes, for the material position of educational workers, but also for improving the conditions of the work of religious communities. I'm sure that way, with less resources, we'd be able to achieve greater effects. This is also an obvious example of unintended use of budget funds, because in all secular countries this issue is resolved in this way, in religious facilities, and not in schools and with the possible help of the state. Thirdly, the way the school boards were formed; most of the school board members were expected to be from collectives, from educational workers, because earlier solutions were criticised and the need for greater autonomy of schools was discussed. However, the DOS has not fulfilled its promises here either. The school boards are scheduled to have nine members, three from school, three from local self-government, i.e. the Ministry of Education and three from the parent council. So, the school has a one-third minority impact, a major impact on decision-making is coming out of school, and the decisions the school board makes are afoot and are very important. For example, the school director, whose founder is the government, is elected by the school board on the basis of a public competition, according to the teacher's council. The minister gives consent to that decision. The school board has no obligation to accept the student council's opinion, which speaks for itself. The ministry rejected the proposal of the Educational Workers' Unions to keep most of the school board members from school, with an explanation, as we heard, not to accept self-government in schools. So much for the autonomy of schools. Fourthly, solutions related to the school secretary; so far the work of the school secretary has been done by people with higher and higher school supplies, somewhere teachers who have lost their jobs by circumstances. Now, the bill provides for a high-level expert preparation for the school secretary to compete in the coming period, which we Socialists support. We can't accept that one year is enough for people at the secretary's post to qualify, because a number of people may be out of a job. If it is a contribution, then such a reform cannot be accepted. New solutions also create an illogical situation. How is it that the school secretary, who doesn't have big jobs, has to be high-speed, and the principal of primary school can be the person with the least high school equipment? Then he's the commanding secretary. Fifth, solutions related to the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. So far, there has been one school calendar for all of Serbia, and where it was necessary in certain cases to deviate from the calendar, it was approved by the minister of education. New solutions introduce several school calendars. The number of working days will be the same, but it will be a different time for them to be realized. Examples of working, starting and ending holidays will vary, then schedule working days for some holidays and so on. The rural authorities are also establishing a network of schools with new solutions. The rural authorities will now lead their education policy and will open schools according to their estimates, so that two cities, one of which is in the province, and one in the other part of Serbia, can be opened to the same schools. This solution makes the difference between the province and the rest of Serbia or the decision to elect a director in the province. What is the effect of the Secretary of the province's opinion on the process of adopting a curricula, binding or not? How the textbooks and educational means will be agreed upon by agreement, how all entities will be negotiated when determining the electoral object, etc. Dear colleagues, I have cited five examples, and there are many more, why these bill proposals and the solutions offered to us socialists are not acceptable. They do not contain qualitatively anything new, many solutions are retrograde, with many bad consequences and MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote against the two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20745	Prime Minister Gašo Knezevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20746	There are probably excuses for some of these statements, because you don't know how the amendments went and, therefore, I won't answer to everything. Two questions are problematic to me. First of all, I don't see any of your right to prevent the Minister of Education and his superior from visiting schools. That's exactly my job. On the other hand, there we are experiencing mostly very awkward questions. No more censorship, no more questions can be asked, and not young socialists in the front row, but whoever comes. One more thing, and that's another thing I wanted to look back on, it's true there's no opening on television. We don't call cameras when we open anything. Three times you opened a dormitory in Nis, three times one and the same home. You brought TV cameras to record and open your fridge. That's terrible. That's not what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20747	National MP Zarko Obradovic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20748	Mr. Minister, it is your right and your duty to go to whatever school you want and, within your obligations and those powers that give you the laws of this country, to do whatever you want. I have pointed out, and that is the fact that there is a subtle view of the politicisation of what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. As part of the programme "Serbia on the Right Way", it is a fact that the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of Resorship go together, mostly in schools; or the Prime Minister and the Resort Minsitor politicise the issue or the Prime Minister does not trust the resolution minister and wants to see what he is doing. Now you choose what suits you better. I'm saying you're politicizing schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20749	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20750	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is really hard to recognize a reasonable political stance in the criticism of those who have tied pioneering tissues around their necks for generations, and today they dispute the right of the Minister of Education to go and talk to students or the Prime Minister to talk to students and teachers as part of Serbia's visit, because he has always met with them. In such a way, they can get the right picture of what is happening in Serbia. The second example is certainly not what we would follow, and that is your relationship, when I cough your thoughts on the relationship of the parties of the previous regime, according to basic, middle or high education. We said a lot in the discussion about the University Law, and I don't think anything of quality can be added to that. So I would focus on a few key points that certainly deserve attention, given that the process of reforming secondary, i.e. primary education - the new organisation of school education must have been a major step towards gaining the kind of knowledge that we need so far and which, unfortunately, we could not, as students, as a society, get in the right and right way. That's where I think of the electoral object. Finally, I would like to say something about the role of local self-government in the process of education, i.e. secondary and primary education. I think it's a really big shift and a big concession, given what marked the organisation of our schooling, the formation of a school board, the advice of parents and the affirmation of local self-government. Between the period during which the minister appointed principals of primary, or secondary schools, we come to a period during which the minister gives consent to decisions that are not taken separately by the teaching council, decisions that are not taken by the local self-government or by the advice of the parents, but by the common position of those representatives who, in themselves, have the highest interest in a quality solution. The school board is the first step in demonopolising education, which is in itself inevitable, necessary and complete. I agree that it would be ideal to live in a society that solves its issues without the role that the minister of education is given today, but this role is more liberal than he has ever played. So between dictatorships and complexity is a big difference. The school board is a very good solution, where representatives of local self-government, representatives of parents and teachers of secondary and primary schools meet. The process of establishing the school board is good because in such a way the role of local self-government is affirmed, in that segment in which it is obliged to care for primary and secondary schools and thus assume on itself the kind of competence that has so far been overly focused on the Republic which could not, given the meaning of which it has organised our education, i.e. the system of primary and secondary schools, to respond adequately. It is no longer possible for Belgrade to care for one school in the interior of Serbia, but for the municipality. It is good that these school boards today exist as some kind of new controller and new realiser of those needs that exist within the school. Also, I think parenting advice is a big step. The way he's forming is completely democratic. He cannot assume to himself the will of a government or a resolute minister, since it contains representatives of parents from every school department in which the council is formed. Finally, we also come to the joint function of the school board, composed of representatives of teachers, parents and local self-government, i.e. Government. I think it's a good approach: 3:3:3 enables at all times the need to negotiate and prevents conflicts resulting from imposing one will. So they're not representatives of the same side. The Board of Parents represents the interests of students and their parents, local self-government and government are the interests of authorities, i.e. executive bodies of government, and teachers in these schools whose authentic interests can be separated from the interests of those who temporarily attend schools. I think the obligation to negotiate is really a useful consequence of this kind of change that is not final and that needs to be further developed. The subject of the electoral object and religion is political; it, given the context in which we live today, must be treated properly. You will find it difficult to find a country in the area of Europe that was more susceptible to religious intolerance and misused the question of religion, religious freedom, than the one we live in today. If we had had the opportunity to educate ourselves for generations, we might have avoided the wrong moves that have been made in this society for the past ten years and that have led us to the situation in which we live today. The issue of finance is, of course, a serious issue in every poor society. The funds to be spent should be taken into account, but the Resort Ministry of Finance carried out its policy very carefully and during last year did not notice any anomalies in the process of spending the funds that were intended to cover the costs of a university subject - religion, or civil education. But we do not allow the representatives of the parties in the previous regime to rule us to point to abuses and irregularities, irregularities at their disposal by budgetary means, because they represent a party whose ministers have received criminal charges for their work in the government based on the uncivil availability of budgetary resources. This will be discussed by the assembly, either in stages where MPs are deprived of immunity, or through the final account for the 2000 budget. So it's a criticism that has no excuse. The selectivity, in contrast to the faculty, is one measure that is absolutely binding, but I think that we need to look at the consequences of this relationship too closely. Selection is not an imposition of religion; it leaves the possibility of selecting another subject. The choice of religion is not to prevent and limit someone in their development, if, for example, it advocates secular society, although religious science at school is not a degradation of secular society. I think it's something that's been past us so far and something that can in itself be a controversy; as it was an opportunity after the government's regulation, it's going to get that place in our society that is important and deserved. The issue of election is a matter of personal choice. That choice must not depend on MPs in the assembly, on the government, but on those who decide to do so. We are obliged to open that possibility. It would be bad if electivity meant imposing religion. But the question of the subject of civic education and the question of religious science are questions that deserve their answers, answers that can be found in school benches. Unfortunately, not in churches that have organized religious studies so far, since our church is unable to respond in such a way to that obligation, since it has been destroyed for 50 years. France is, but our church isn't; when I say ours, I mean not the Orthodox Church, but all the religious communities that exist in our society; they can't answer that. Perhaps after the law on the return of property and after the new law on religious communities, they will be able to do so. Then we'll talk about it. It is therefore important to note that religiousism is not an object that is estimated from one to five, but rather by the grades described, and it cannot have a decisive effect on the success of someone who has decided for it. By preventing the ability to gain that knowledge, you are actually opening up space for new abuses and do not want to put an end to the kind of chaos that has been present in our society in all situations where religion, or religion, has been abused. When we talk about religion, we don't talk about Orthodoxism; we're not talking about a Roman Catholic church; we're talking about religious communities that want their faith and their knowledge to draw closer to those who view such a thing as their own personal need. It is good for the congregation to open up that possibility and not question anything like that, because otherwise we would have repeated the mistake that was committed in our society more than 50 years ago. These are some important topics that we can talk about; in advance I want to distinguish between the criticism of the selectivity of the religion which the reasons are found primarily in its party context and the marking, and the defeated regime doctrines, from the criticism present within the DOS itself and our civil society stemmed from fear, which in itself can be justified; but I think there is much more positive in everything that was our essential intentions. So we will support this law, and it does not mean full reform of primary and secondary education; it is actually the first step in one job that will be working long and it is a path without its final end, because I believe that the issue of evolution cannot be bypassed in the area of education. What we've heard from the representatives of the former regime's parties is unacceptable to us, especially because the more critical of these criticisms actually challenge them, not us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20751	The word has been given by MP Ratimir Svircevic. Another replica; the basis for the replica -- the parties of the former regime, you recognized each other. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20752	Dear fellow MPs, we heard this story from Mr Jovanovic about the non-intentional spending of funds for the first time last year at this time. But now we hear for the first time from the representatives of this Parliament that the outcome is already being seen, and that is nice, especially since at the same time we claim that there is absolute independence of the prosecution, the judiciary, as well as other state authorities in relation to legislative and executive power. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: What outcome? Well, you've already announced the outcome. This reminds absolutely of these Hague sealed indictments, where it's known in advance and who's to blame and what he's guilty of. So much for the state, the justice system, and justice. The second thing, in the past decade, when the Socialists organized power at the level of the Republic, was done very much for religious communities in the state, all; look, inquire, hear from them and the abundance of religious objects and about what the state did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20753	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, the basis for the replica, as in the previous case, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20754	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although not a single member of the SRS has spoken about these laws, the DOS MP spoke in the crowd about the former regime's parties, thus referring to some criticism and bans, even the SRS MPs, in advance, determining their discussion. Of course, he'll get away with it all unpunished, but he can't go out for a pay phone and say that there are no criticisms that are from the point of view of the ideologies of the party regime. Why can't they be? Everyone here has the right to criticise, this is the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But I propose the formation of a assembly committee that will prepare Cedomir Jovanovic for the National Sense Sessions. Then he could respect the dignity of the National Assembly and speak the truth about this speaker. In the law of high school, he praised our role as local self-government in making decisions about high school. What's her role? That the congregation of the municipality, or city, merely proclaims a committee chosen in a way independent of the congregation, or city. The school board makes up a third of the members, representing teachers in schools, parents and the Ministry of Education. What's the part? It is even a humiliating role of the congregation that must declare it. I'm talking about the basic draft law, for me it's the ideology of the promoter, accepted or rejected amendments to me are not the wish of a legislator. One who has had time for a few months or two to draft a law on high school can't say - don't tell me about the bill, tell me about the amendments I've accepted. An ideal lawmaker is the one who doesn't have to accept amendments, who's taken a good look at the bill. What you accept here in the bench, even thinking about who the amendment proposes, that's not ideology. It's now, as we were late with the session today, so we didn't even work Thursday afternoon, agreeing whether these votes will vote if there's a proposal like this or not. And there's something else I've been so worried about, it's not DOS ideology that all religious communities can teach our children. I can't believe that it's going to go this far (and I haven't asked you anything), I don't think it's going to go that far for society to be able to train our children. I think that our amendment has made it clear, and it is also related to some of your proposals for laws in which traditional churches are laid down; they should be co-operated with by the state, and there is what the state should be persecuting, not working with such a co-operation. Mr. Minister, I'm thinking about your behavior, although you've performed here not as a professor of the university, you've performed very lowly, but I've watched you on television when you've been playing at one school, he's chosen as a visual school to propagate some education beyond religion; after two months you said that school should be closed because it's done completely outside the rules; like that sects have taken over school, there's been a tragedy at that school; and I'm interested in what your attitude is: the one by which that school is representative (you wouldn't take pictures at a school that's to close) or that attitude after two months that the school should be closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20755	The minister asked for a word; the word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20756	Just for the sake of the truth: what you called tickling, it was the first class of civic education we had in elementary school, and this second one you're talking about is St. Sava's High School; therefore, two completely different things.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20757	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20758	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, was injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 98 by Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, who misread my performance; he had completely disregarded the article of the 89th Law that we are discussing and following his provisions - the school board is the managing body of the school; the members of the school board appointed and resolved the assembly of the municipality, or the assembly of the city; the election period is four years. So much for role-playing self-government. I am prepared to accept any suggestion and that, if the Assembly decides, we form a committee that would help me in my work, because I think I'm doing a lot of work and it would be useful; but I'm asking you to read the law and that, if you need that kind of help, you ask for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20759	Replication rights, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: This was according to the Rules of Procedure!) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20760	I am convinced, this is a replica, that I know about the composition of this committee that would help Mr. Jovanovic. You're warning me of something I've already said about this speaker; it's true that the congregation of the municipalities is elected by the school board. That seems humiliating. No member of the school board gives; she gets a list of members, a third of which is determined by school teachers, a third by parents' advice, and a third by the minister of education. I would ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure this harshly; if you are already giving someone a word to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but in fact to replicate it. I expect, at least in half of the cases, that you will provide me with such a right in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20761	In all cases, for all things alike, it is not at all controversial, depending on the knowledge of who is behind the pay phone. The word is from MP Ratimir Svircevic, president of the parliamentary group Reformists of Vojvodina -- the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20762	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, we are in principle in favour of the changes proposed by this bill. Mr. Minister, in his opening statement, seems to me, very transparently, eloquently or as it may already be called, quite directly referred to the principle of change that he proposes, in principle of three "d". So, democratisation, decentralisation and depoliticalization. Democracy is not controversial. I think it's very easy to explain, define and justify, defend, whatever you want. Many predecessors have talked about it, if the school board is chosen the way it is chosen, if parents are involved, of course children cannot manage schools, but schools are indirectly and very significantly managed by their parents. I can't have underage faces, so I can't explain it. Decentralisation, as one of the very significant characteristics of these changes in the Bill's proposal, is first and foremost evident in the fact that the selection of expert personnel is descending to a much lower level than the existing one. This includes virtually users, those who know best, those on whose territory schools exist, learn students, etc. that they can have a crucial impact, above all, on the personnel composition of schools, and then indirectly on the quality of teaching and everything else together. Depolitisation may be the most intriguing principle of these three, very important and it's very important for him to speak for a word, given one of the political practices we've had, especially in the last 10 years. I'm also going to say a little later on about the political practice that was back in the 50s and over years. So my proposal would also be to supplement this, without any pretense of adding Mr. Minister to one thesis of three "d", I'm conditionalally adding a fourth "d". I think the fourth "d" has a place in this story, which is a practical, or clearly spoken word deideology. I think there's a clear difference between depoliticization and deideology. That's why I said it was especially important to mention the period back 50 years and over. We know what the relationship between ideology then was to this segment of education. I don't want to spread it to the university. That's what we used to say at the last points. It also had a major impact on basic and secondary education through human policy, especially through teaching programmes, and through a lot of things that could be talked about, which was happening. So, it wasn't the same situation in 1945, 1946, 1947, and for example in 1988 and 1989, but it's important to say the following - by decommissioning the former Yugoslavia and disseminating it with socialism, at least in some formal sense, we didn't part with ideology. The ideology of Marxism, which was the dominant ideology in curricula, the school programs, was replaced by also devastating ideologies -- nationalism, xenophobia towards Europe above all, according to many civilizations; further, religious, racial and any other hatred. I don't think we should talk about it to a significant extent, because basically at every session and on every point we can talk about it, so I'd just say it so taxively. What I wanted to talk about in particular, given that it's about amending and supplementing the law, what's particularly interesting about the environment I come from, is the aspect of religion and the relationship between religion and education, in this case basic and middle. Since I come from Vojvodina, and I also represent a parliamentary group in which the Sandzak representatives are, I believe that religion in school must first of all start from the basic principle, which is that in our premises it is considered in general, especially in these two areas, religion primarily multi-confessional. In order for the plan and the study programme of the subjects that we have called religious science to be conceived primarily from a sociological and historical aspect, I would refer to the words of Mr. Minister who says that among the key arguments for the introduction of religion into education are in this way, as proposed, balances, and this number of polls, where a very large number of citizens have opted for children in basic education, and also later, to acquire knowledge from the field of religion. But what does it matter? It is important that the polls came after a period where religion, a church as an institution, was significantly discriminated against. It was a kind of response to the practice in question. I don't think we should go to the opposite extreme as far as an area of life is concerned, which is distinctly individual, which is primarily diverse, given that there are a large number of confusions, especially in our area and in the middle where I come from. In this law, there is one term that says: traditional religion. Perhaps through amendments he should suffer one change, for yet it is significant to say that there are certain creeds that have an exceptional number of supporters in the world, such as adventists and others, and we are not so-called. a traditional religion. I think we would overcome this situation by bringing religion into school through a sociological and historical filter. Then we could reconcile any other situation. We wouldn't fall into a mistake if we were to get into traditional religions, to call them so, to insert some religious sects, and at the same time we would respect everything that figures as a confesion in these places. In the end, I'd say something that specifically asked me to say, I'm not going to say irritable. Members of the former regime expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of a sufficient principle of decentralisation; they say -- when a school director is proposed, the agreement should be given by the minister. Imagine, and in the current solution, the minister puts the director of the school directly. We now have a change in this direction, it is not enough for those who have so centralized schools that it was almost unsustainable. So, a miracle of principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20763	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, listen to your MP from the Educational Committee. Proposals on amendments to the law on primary and secondary school law, which we are discussing in a united principle debate, are not some particular reform move. In fact, the ambition of the legislator, or legislator, was probably expressed to a lesser extent, because if he wanted to, then he would have passed one full law, not amendments and additions to the law. What's kind of a newspaper in these two legal texts is the return of religion as a teaching course in our schools. Veronauka was in a traditional Serbian school -- both basic as a rifle, mass, and in high school, and Theological Faculty was one of the founders of Belgrade University. Therefore, it is not the same position as religion and the position of civic education. A citizen's education, truth, is now the first time, and religious science is coming back, so it's simply rehabilitating an old traditional school. It is true that the Government Regulation, which introduced the religion, caused a major public opinion and opinion to be shared. It was probably the reason that our Ministry of Education decided to introduce a new subject - a civil matter and thus reconcile those opposed. I think it's fear, expressed by atheists, that all those who teach religious studies will be theist, completely unjust. Here, there are these bright examples, which simply come in favor of them -- the religion taught Stalin as well. Also, the belief that those who teach civic education will be atheists doesn't have to be true either. It is possible, then, that serious and good believers will be recruited among them. What could be resented by these amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary school, since these two texts are in fact completely similar, since they are approximately and treated with changes from that matter, this is a lack of courage from the Ministry of Education to carry out more serious reform requirements. This is what is now modern to say - the reform in the field of teaching material, i.e. curricula, as I have heard them speak, etc., then the reform on evaluation, the reform on the content of curricula and curricula and finally reform on what can be a teaching course at school. Our school is traditional and the system of education is with us the class-hour and subject system, which was introduced by Jan Amos Komenski, in the JVII century, in his teaching work "Didactica Magna". We just didn't step away from that thing. It's possible he's well-designed and well-conceived, as long as he's successful in the rehearsal. But when I expressed my dissension a little bit that this legal text did not show a little more courage, here, speaking of high school, I think there are other old provisions on supplemental and additional follow-up. The additional teaching is foreseen for those students who are lagging behind in success, and additional teaching is foreseen for those who are gifted. I simply say that to those people who are not in our educational esnaf, although among the MPs of all parliamentary groups there are educators, from all levels of education. So here's what would be good - it would be good to, for example. additional teaching also strengthens that it is a little more binding in those schools for working professions and in technical schools, if we start from the assumption that there is in some way a level of education for those students, i.e. the initial educational standard, is lower. Additional classes could be intensified and a little more serious work in elite schools, so to speak, although not all high schools are elite. Some are, but there are, of course, elite schools, special high school, e.g. Mathematical high school and, I guess, Philology High. If indeed the legislator of this law persists in his promises that he will eventually come out with an integral text, where the intensities of education reform, which is subject to various conferences, will be carried out in a timely manner, then we have no reason to support these amendments and to supplement the law on primary and secondary education. What is particularly worrying, and I am aware of the fact that the law cannot regulate it, is extremely low in the provision of educators. Educational workers have never quoted themselves high on a prize scale. But lately, it's been more pronounced, and that started about after the 1990s, when the Socialists were toughened in power, and unfortunately, even now, that situation is not fixed. In order for truly educators to be able to cross that edge of the existential minimum in rewarding, it is certain that a more serious reform must be carried out. The reform will also provide for teaching subjects that are necessary for those who are not. By the way, I'm using the Minister of Education's presence to ask him (because of the appeal I received from the believers) - when will the Ministry of Education, or the Ministry of Faith, or at last anyone, pay off the teachers? Believers have been working for half a year without a day of compensation. Here, even these Marxists, when they introduce religion, need to know, how Marks says, that even believers must eat, drink and live, and indeed their existential needs are greatly threatened. At this point, they have no idea how serious the price of their work is. By the way, to say that I will be a representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I will also take part in an individual debate, of course, and I will give the final word. And finally, since I belong to the defense of educational workers, since I've been in that esnafu for more than 25 years, I feel the need to paraphrase the words of a wise old Greek: "If the Athenians have bad shoes, they'll wear bad shoes, if they have bad tailors, they'll dress badly, if the Athenians have bad teachers, we'll have bad Athenians". All this applies to Serbs, that is, all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20765	The word has a minister in the Serbian government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20766	Mr. Cirkovic, you yourself said this wasn't the place to talk about the economy, but I'm going to answer two things for you -- first, what I know hurts people, that's the level of adoption of educators. I must tell you, a lot has been done since October 2000. At that point, the average salary was 66 marks, and now it's 300 marks. The cost of living to little and inflation has also increased, but educational workers have gone beyond the cost of living to little and inflation, so realistically something has been done. As a result, the end of the strikes, which, thank God, has been gone for a year. Second, as far as the religion pays, the addresses were eparchy. The problem was that the eparchy had no giro accounts or had them in the banks that failed, and in that procedure they opened new ones. Everyone's got a payment now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20767	Any of the other presidents answer for a word? Please, the word has the DSS representative, MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20768	In all countries that hold little to their future, special attention is paid to enlightenment. Unfortunately, in the country where we live today, this is not the case since 1945 until today. In pre-war Yugoslavia, the old Kingdom of Yugoslavia, education had its rightful place and teachers, teachers and professors were the concepts, were the most respected individuals. Since 1945, total degradation has occurred today, both educational workers and the system of education in general. I would say that the culmination of that degradation system of education has been experienced precisely in the last 12 years. It is very interesting that today we of those who took part in this listen to them advocate democracy and return self-government to our schools. As I recall, there was no self-management in pre-war Yugoslavia in schools. At the time, there was no idea what self-government was at all, there was no and there was no other Edward Cardell, so schools worked great. But let's move on to a debate about the law itself. The DSS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this proposal to amend and supplement the elementary school law and agree with many amendments. First of all, since everyone started a religion, let me start with religion. In our pre-election programme, we envisioned the return of religion to our schools, as a party that always appreciated Serbian tradition, as a party whose members are largely members of the Serbian Orthodox Church, although there are also believers from other churches. We simply believe that that choice must be offered in the education system. Of course, we do not want to force anyone to learn religion unless they feel the need for it, just as it is impossible to force anyone to be a believer and to believe if they do not feel it in their heart. Here we have a very decent concept, that on the one hand religious teaching is offered, and on the other hand, for people who think differently, who are atheists, we have a proposal for one other subject, which should also process ethical content. Every single person, or every parent, since we're talking about elementary and high school here, and it's mostly parents who are going to make a decision that the subject will teach their children, has the opportunity to choose. It is likely that, depending on their own understanding, parents who are believers will direct their children towards religion, and others according to an alternative subject currently called civic education, which is likely to change over time. We're completely in agreement with that and we welcome it. We also welcome this bill of law to stop the equalisation between teachers themselves and the introduction of mentors, instructors, pedagogical advisors of the senior pedagogical counselor - because it will be some stimulant for each teacher to constantly, year by year, improve his knowledge. A system of competition will be developed among the professors themselves. Of course, the salaries for higher calls will be higher, and that will also be one motivation, although for an educator wage should not be motivation, but in a situation of extremely low standard among educators and that is not irrelevant. We welcome that, too. What we have a different concept than the government's proposal is the school management system. In fact, since I was on the post of Minister of Central Education until August of the Year, I know the motives why the government proposed such a concept, so I have to say that this concept is not bad, but it is not bad in developed democracies and countries where education has been taken into account differently, where parents have been involved in the education system since the very beginning, in a constructive sense, which has not been the case for us so far. I'm not saying it shouldn't be. Of course you should, but I think it's premature right now. Why? Well, precisely because for 50 years, closer to 60 years, in fact, school was managed in a different way. We had a centralist principle, where the government, i.e. the Minister of Education, appointed school boards, i.e. principals of schools, which are mainly (I will not say all) appointed by this very political line, according to the famous moral-political resemblance (this was also the case in schools and beyond), and many such directors received political similarities from some professors. Thank God, not all of them, but some of them are. What was the biggest problem was not school politics; I argue, based on the experience I have, and I was also in the transitional government, and later in August 2001, I have the impression that I simply can't break off, that the policy I was talking about was not the primary policy, and that calling the school director was not as important because of politics as it was important because of something else, which is finance. It's something that was much more tempting and the DSS will insist, when we talk about this bill, and also later, to prevent school abuse, but financially. All of us who are parents, and I believe that most of us in this room (and people who look at us first are parents and everything else), we know that unfortunately today in schools, everything is being betrayed. The school space, the physical halls, which are the biggest subject of manipulation, the schoolyards are being issued, bakeries and catering facilities are being made, everything happens in schools, just seems to be the least excess of that school space going into something that would be useful for our children. Up until a year and a half ago, there was a great possibility of manipulating this school space and, unfortunately, in many schools, it seemed. As a result, we believe that if the issue is properly regulated, the issue of issuing the school space will become far less important who the school director himself is. In fact, the school director should be an ordinary manager, who will make sure that things at school work well and that will ensure order and discipline, and the predisposition that the teaching process takes place without any major problems. Under the current Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic owns schools. However, when it comes to schools as facilities, schools are not attended by the Ministry of Education, but local self-government. Since under the new Law on Local Self-Government, a large number of powers by the Ministry of Education are passed right on to local self-government, or the assembly of the city’s municipalities and congregation, as entrusted businesses, we believe that special attention in the law should be given to this problem. In this regard, we have also submitted several amendments, where we are asking first of all that the inspection supervision, which the Ministry of Education is transferring to local self-government, is addressed by the issue of the issue of the issue of school space, and that a special provision on resolution and reasons for dissuasion of directors is given special attention that each director must be obliged to obtain the consent of the Directorate, which so far should have been done under the applicable law, but in practice it did not seem. If it were mandatory, it would be much less a possibility of abuse. If the municipality already has transferred rights by the Ministry, and if the municipality is engaged in the maintenance and financing of schools, then it is logical that the municipality has the largest share in deciding who will be head of school; but not the school director as it has been, but as usual, as I have just said, the modern manager. That's why we at the DSS think it best for the school board, which should be elected by the director, to give most of the representatives the local self-government, that the three representatives give representatives of the teaching council to the school itself, and that one representative is given by parents. However, of these five representatives who would delegate local self-government, we believe that these cannot be people who will be delegated to the municipality on the political line, but that it should only be those people who are seriously interested in the development and progress of both the school system and the local schools themselves. We suggest that in this part of the school board that the municipality, or municipal council, would propose, there should also be teachers from a higher level of schooling, i.e. that when we talk about elementary schools, at least one teacher from high school and at least one teacher from high school must enter the school. When it comes to secondary schools, to have representatives of higher education institutions, means higher schools and colleges, as well as representatives of local economy, which is especially important for smaller cities, which have their own characteristic industries attached to them. For example, in Majdanpek it would be very good to pay special attention, when we talk about schooling, to those very directions that will educate children for future jewellers and so on, given the proximity of the mine. In addition, we have this experience in many developed Western European countries. In particular, Germany has worked hard to connect local economies and networks of secondary schools. I hope that's the case with us. I immediately say that it is the impression that there is not enough practice in our schools and that this way would help children immediately start learning in practice and in books, but not just from books, but to be one practical knowledge that will be applicable immediately after school is finished. Finally, the lack of the law so far is that there was no provision in it concerning the acting director. In fact, it was not known until the end of how the director’s office was replaced, and the whole issue was not treated at all by this law. In this legislative proposal, the acting official appears, as the practice has shown during this transitional period, especially during the transitional period of the government and immediately thereafter, that he was a large number of officials. Only according to the Company Act was it defined how they would be replaced. Here, in this bill, we finally have it processed. Pretty much, that'd be for now, seeing as how it's already approaching the palpable. Much more about the amendments we have submitted will be discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20769	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform the MPs that we will continue our work at 15.00 hours of debate by application. The first registered speaker is MP Zeljo Huric. At 14:00, a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be held, in the 48th floor of the conference on the 2nd floor, and a session of the Legislative Committee in Hall I on the Ground floor, also at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20770	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We can continue a joint principle debate on amendments and amendments to the law on secondary and primary schools. According to reports, the word has been issued by MP Zeljo Huric, a parliamentary group of the reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party; your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20771	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, respected fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, respected citizens, there are actually two laws in front of us, on primary and secondary schools, which have, which should be kept in mind, the following priority goals: to develop functional literacy among all students and to create conditions in all areas of education for the permanent adoption of fundamental knowledge and skills, and our obligation is to translate these objectives from the sphere of declarationivity into the field of practical implementation in all schools. If we go from some data based on the 1991 census, based on which about one third of Serbia's population is without a primary school, and about 6.5% are illiterate, with an extreme tendency towards centralisation and ethics, then the promoter did not have much room for some more serious corrections (votes: topic). A team before it was only about amendments and additions to this law, and that includes fundamental elements of education, which are curricula and textbooks... (votes: theme) But still... Sir, be a bit of an adult and don't risk provoking in me one of my professional deformities, so I can perform at this point, at least when it comes to you as a class elder. However, I believe that the proposed text, in addition to the amendments that have already become its component and those that will become after the debate, is a serious attempt to create a basis for the adoption of the right law on primary and secondary school. This and what it will be, accepted by this high home, will represent a path that will, in the near future, be approved by local authorities, as well as the schools themselves, develop alternative programmes. and organizations. [[growls]] At that time territorial, population, socio-economic, national, ethnic or confessional specificities will be reflected in schools, i.e. the differences between the students or the environments from which they come, or originate. Returning local status to primary schools will motivate local environments and increase their interest in their local schools. Unfortunately, we still have the problem of central, or parent schools and their outcasts, i.e. their unequal conditions. I think it's clear here that these outcast departments don't have the same conditions as parent schools, when it comes to pedagogical services, social workers and the school director himself, etc. This proposal will eliminate the work of the school inspection so far, which, when it comes to teaching, mainly implemented its student evaluation system through the implementation of the curriculum and programmes, in the administrative sense. So, the inspector was over-checking whether the teacher was predicating, better put in all the teaching content, and almost never checked out the knowledge and skills of the students. That role, but in the right sense, after these changes and additions, is taken by an educational counselor. Inspection, as a trusted job, will be carried out by the municipal, or city administration, through an educational inspector, who will be in a situation to carry out not only more frequent controls, but also immediately responds to all negative phenomena in schools. The teacher can no longer hide behind the classes. [[growls]] The basic criterion of his work will be the knowledge and knowledge of a student who, as I have already said, will be checked regularly. In particular, it is important to introduce the professional training of teachers, which has already been discussed, i.e. Getting called - pedagogical advisor, mentor, instructor and senior pedagogical advisor. The government and the Committee have had enough hearing to accept my amendment, which provides for the possibility of forming regional centres for this purpose. This will result not only in more efficient and balanced improvement, advancement and acquisition of calling, but also the participation of professional and competent people in the process throughout Serbia. The new role of the school board, and especially the advice of the parents, significantly changes the extremely limited autonomy of the school. The director will no longer be just the school's administrative head, who manages the school by transferring and applying the rules and regulations adopted by the ministry. Other services, such as the secretary, who is in some schools and accounting worker, cashier and whatnot, will only do his job. Speaking of which, I would like to inform the secretaries that the deadline for their professional training, proposed by the original text, was two years, the new amendment has been extended for another, so it will be three years in total. In addition to these changes and additions, additional efforts must also appear to reduce economic difficulties. First of all, to increase the extremely low salaries of teachers, then to make attempts to initial define educational priorities, as well as to further open education to the world through co-operation with international educational institutions and programmes. These changes and additions, first and foremost, may seem superficial, cosmetic, in the form of limited grooming and improvement, as they do not concern fundamental components of education, curricula, programs and textbooks. However, I want to believe and I am sure that these are the basic changes of one new, in the right way of reformed education system, which will not be a direct loan of experience and educational methods and models of other economically developed countries, which, due to the specific social, economic and cultural environment of those countries, would not be the best for us. It would also not be good to return to its roots, for the past does not contain solutions to many educational problems. It is necessary to preserve all existing advantages, a relatively wide network of schools, mass participation in primary education, and also in secondary education, to install them all into a different type of school system. The whole system should be focused on the quality and sustainability of student achievements and the management of the education system should be based on a continuous flow of information. Just like that (President-in-Office - I warn you of time-out) we can become a learning society. Here, I'm done. So from everything I've said, you can conclude that I and the MP group I belong to will support this law. You who haven't realized that this was a topic have a chance, go back to where you were 20 years ago, and you'll learn what the subject is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20772	The word has a folk MP, Predrag Canovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20773	The respected presidency, respected MPs and members of the government, offered a draft law on elementary school in the opinion of the Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group does not bring any fundamental changes to the current law. So the concept of primary education remained virtually the same. The applicable law has been amended only in certain segments, primarily in terms of decentralisation, since some responsibilities have been restored to the province and local self-government. Namely, this law has changed the way the principal of primary schools is elected. Instead of the solution so far, where the Minister of Education appointed the director after the competition, and based on the school board's opinion, it is now proposed that the school board chooses the director, based on the teacher's board's opinion obtained. However, the school board's decision is subject to the minister's consent and the competition process ends with the minister's consent. In the opinion of the Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group, this matter does not change much compared to the current law, as the Ministry of Education has very important powers in selecting the school's directors. The paper is that the function of the school supervisor is divided into two components, into administrative and professional pedagogical supervision. This first surveillance, administratively, would be performed by an educational inspector, and the second, expert-pedagogical supervision would be performed by an educational advisor. The question, however, is whether all this will increase the total financial costs that the relevant authorities will have to bear. In our opinion, he will, and that will certainly represent a certain financial cost. The paper is the introduction of religious teaching and other subjects, according to here, of ethical-humanist content, which determines the minister of education and brings the subject a curricula and programme. It's unclear from what's meant by this subject of ethical-humanist content. In the opinion of the Committee for the Enlightenment of the Serbian Unity Party, it is a rather broad formulation; it should have given a more precise formulation of the case, because its contents are so completely unclear. At the very end of the line, the question is whether this matter should have been regulated by law or by the curriculum and the program. Furthermore, this law gives parents more responsibility, among other things, to consider the success of students in learning and managing, and then to consider the use of funds acquired by extended work, etc., which in our opinion can only be achieved effectively in some more developed environments. In less developed environments, it is quite certain that this will be more feasible. But these powers are not final, they are always formulated as proposals to the relevant authorities of the school. So when all of this is summed up and taken away, you can talk about some kind of decentralisation, but not some greater democratisation in the work of the school. When it comes to high schools, the proposed bill makes certain changes, but here does not essentially change the system of organisation of secondary education. So the concept is similar. This bill provides certain decentralisation in the functioning of secondary schools. This is where the school board conducts the selection of school directors, and a range of subjects is expanded in the school decision-making system by introducing parent advice, as well as the participation of student representatives in the work of school boards. In addition, there are also instructions given to the congregation of the municipality to appoint members of the school board. Since secondary schools can educate students from wider regions, the possibility of the ministry making a proposal for three members of the school board of local self-government, including representatives of companies whose needs are being trained by staff. These are some of the more important papers of the law. This law also introduces electoral subjects, religious classes and other subjects of ethical-humanist content in secondary schools. So here I can repeat the same thing I said when it came to elementary school. It is unclear what is meant by the subject of ethical-humanist content. We think that this formulation is too wide and that we needed to formulate this subject a little more precisely, to know its contents, especially in our overall teaching system, without exception, and this is particularly important when it comes to secondary schools. In this bill, the minister has the final word in the election of directors, so in the opinion of the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group, no much greater degree of democratisation has been achieved. Out of all of the above, the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group believes that these legal proposals offer no better qualitative solutions than the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20774	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, appeared on these agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened with attention to the presentation of the Minister of Education, which is in unmistakable language, a little stuttering, difficult speaking a little more complex words, trying to bring the project that the Government has put before the National Assembly, related to such an important area as primary and secondary education. There is no "r" since the reforms, there are only three "d" which are, of course, under the quote, which the minister mentioned all morning, that is, from noon onwards, because by noon he probably planted canvasses in the Tashmajdan Park. I would return to one statement by the minister, related to basic and secondary education programmes, because that is what is first of all keeping us in Serbia, and the status of educational workers. These changes to the laws are not that they cannot be called reformal, but are a mere distraction of the Serbian public and this people's assembly, which will lose days and days, and for the result we will have virtually nothing or we will have an even worse situation in education than we have today. In August 2001, announcing some money that should come from abroad to finance our primary and secondary schools (but here is the potential of secondary vocational schools, because Europe will not invest in our high school, it does not need European trained personnel in Serbia preparing for studies, but a manual workforce and, of course, less educated staff), among other things, commenting on the programmes in which this money will be invested, the minister says - I think the spear will break the most around history. I don't want to interfere with the work of the commission, because I don't want to reform towards the image of the ministry, but with the image of the expert. Both schools of historical opinion that exist and are visible in Serbia, conservative and liberal, entered the commission. I hope that they will fight enough for each other and that a healthy programme will come out of it and that the ministry will not have to be any judge. I believe that a small internationalisation of Serbian history will be made of everything, that it remains Serbian history, but that the percentage of its participation in all history will be somewhat smaller. I'd like to give one signal that we're not the center of the world, but that we're just part of the mosaic. So here, as we talked about the university, we see that the minister advocates internationalization, and we Serbian radicals advocate that our children, learning history, learn that Jacques Shirak bombed them without Jean-Marie Le Pen bombing them and that he was a friend of the Serbian people. We hope that such forces and that Jean-Marie Le Pen will be one of the first to win the presidential election and show that the concept of globalisation is the past and that the time of right-wing forces is coming. (President: Please return to the agenda topic. ) As regards Article 1. The elementary school law (I will comment first and foremost on the elementary school law, because the same changes are in one and the other), but in Article 1, we see that the provision of Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality. Our government in every law tries to prescribe in Article 1 already some of our constitutional provisions, as if they had invented it, but these are, therefore, constitutional definitions, part of our constitutional order that already exists. In schools, as well as any other state institutions, of course, no self-political organisation should be allowed, but it is no newspaper, it was in the old law, no matter what in the last few years, and how it has been misused by this very new authority, which is also a professor, using their difficult economic situation, or low wages, dissatisfaction, using their position, and children, of course, taking them to the streets for purely political needs, and not some trade unions, in order to possibly expect it. In our country there are 1,239 primary schools, 524 secondary schools. I don't know if the minister knows that there is no high school in Serbia that can be attended by disabled children who are mentally preserved, but that such children must, if they want to go to school further, go all the way to Podgorica. As much as it costs your parents, it's not worth talking about. It would be something that could be expected this government to do, to deal with this problem, if some money for these needs had arrived or will arrive. Article 2 provides that the Ministry of Education shall carry out administrative and professional pedagogical supervision and, within the framework of it, shall, under point 3, specify the following: "the evaluation of the quality of work of schools". Now I ask the minister how is it, which way, what's the point, what's the consequence? Is there any consequence, let's say, if the minister goes to St. Sava High School, and he says this is a visual school, and after two months he says, this school should be closed. That's exactly it. It's a broad provision that's certainly not going to mean anything in practice. You can't grade a school, you can grade a teacher. There is an educational inspector who is professional enough to assess whether a certain teacher is a good pedagogist, whether he has success in the work or not, whether he should carry out certain conconsequences or not, rather than leaving the director to lead, allegedly, some disciplinary procedure; because, Mr. Minister, the disciplinary procedure is no longer under the Labour Act, but the director would only have to, after informing that educational inspector, to carry out what he tells him to do, if you really want to have an educational inspector who has some authority. At our place, though, we've been hearing lately that high school kids are grading teachers. Everything turned upside down. But it's not an accident either. You know, that's where some democracy is now, so now there's some questions being asked -- which one of the teachers is real in grading, who's politicizing the class, in what way. In fact, there's a review, because children mostly don't want to lie and they don't need to lie, especially if it's anonymous, but that's why the school director has a complete overview of what his teachers are and can take appropriate measures. I don't want to talk about crisis headquarters. I heard there was talk about it this morning in all these schools. There are few executives who have survived in their posts; it mostly went on a party basis. To tell you the truth, we Serbian radicals are completely against this concept of the school director's election. If the school and education are funded by the citizens of this country, of course, through us MPs choose the Serbian government, someone must be responsible for the functioning of primary and secondary education. Who's that? It is the Government of Serbia and, of course, the Minister of Education. Don't hide behind some school boards and leave everything to them or local self-government or some tripartite body, a school board that will elect directors. It's turning back, with even more distorted self-management. First, the question arises how are you going to choose those three parents who will be on that school board? By what principle? The collective will elect three representatives who will be on the school board, the local self-government will choose three (when it comes to primary school, and when it comes to high school and there are no representatives), so if the collective is against the proposal of the school board, and already has its representatives on the school board, what will happen - the breakdown in the collective itself, because one part of the collective will be against what those three who have already delegated to that school board to decide. You know, and when it was the university, we told you it was just a run from responsibility. Responsibility, if you want power, you have to accept. (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I warn you of overtime. I'm using another ten minutes. In the old article16, Article 6 of the amendment and the addition of the law, the powers of an educational counselor are prescribed, to which, in our opinion, another authority should be added, which is that it can propose to the school director the temporary distance of teachers in the cases provided for here in Article 73, because it should value the quality of the teacher's work and thus propose and the measure that the director will only implement. Article 9 should specify what traditional churches and religious communities are. We can't leave it unsaid and it's interpreted as who cares. You're in one of your acts, I think, already listed which churches they are. With the amendment, we tried to correct it in the law itself, to make the provision of that member of the law quite clear, and to list that Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community, the Catholic Church, the Slovak Gospel Church a.v., the Jewish community, the Reformer Christian Church and the Evangelist Christian Church a.v., therefore, was executed to prevent sects from being inserted through religious teaching into our schools. Also, religious teaching was introduced by the Government Regulation as a university, and now we see in the amendments to the law as an electoral object. We don't think that's good. It's supposed to stay as a university subject. What we want to draw attention to is that religious teaching simply has no alternative. It can't be civil education, what you call it now, and it can get another name, but it's about teaching ethical-humanist content, to be an alternative to religious continuation. Simply, ethical-humanist content must be permeated through the programs of all the classes that are being studied at school. It's just that there's no dilemma. If we're human society, if we're interested in ethical principles, if we want to educate our children in this way, then even in the course of physical education, artistic, musical, that I'm not talking about literature and history, there should be ethical-humanist content. You know, I looked at my first grade reading book, and I was just surprised that, in addition to all our rich folk literature, we had an Albanian folk story. Was it really necessary to intervene in this regard, as regards Serbian for children of the first grade of primary school? Not to mention some memos by Minister Gaša Knezevic, who went to high schools, about recommendations to be thrown out, visible national writers, and that some who are completely marginal to us are inserted into the booklets. In Article 15, I have already noted, but I want to point out, because this amendment must be amended, if this is a alignment with the Labour Law, and it is said in an exposé of the Minister that these amendments to the law are due to the adoption of the Labour Law and the Omnibus Act, the disciplinary procedure, the Minister, is gone, and in such a case must react differently. About the special fund of the school I would like to say quite briefly about the advice of the parents, which you refer to here as never existed, and the advice of parents (here, how much I have schooled my children, which is 15 years old) has always existed in both secondary and primary schools. I've had the pleasure of being a member of a parent's council more than once, and now you're introducing it as an innovation by this law. As for the special fund of the school, you, Minister, once said that instead of perfume, parents should give 100 marks to the school fund and thus help the school solve some of its important issues, related to the maintenance of the school and so on. Our proposals made in the amendments go primarily to the fact that the selection of directors must be in the hands of the Serbian Government, or Minister of Education, but on a proposal of local self-government. Please, if we've given local self-government the proper jurisdiction and obligations of primary education, then it must be the exclusive right of local self-government to propose it to the minister of education, means that the council members of the municipality, knowing the environment, knowing the school, people at school, propose a candidate for a director who would of course choose on the basis of the competition, and the minister would have to be the one to do so. So, Minister, everything you said -- centralization, politicization, low democracy -- remains with this law. We expect, although frankly, we do not hope that you will succeed in making any shift of the best, in both programming and organisational terms in primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20776	The People's MP Vladimir Andric has the word, and the next one has been reported as the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20777	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS believes that the adoption of conceptual new laws on elementary and high school does not suffer further delays. It was the first-class task of the Ministry of Education as a prerequisite for reforming the education system. From the ministry, however, we have received draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary school, a solution that is transitional and without fundamental changes to the old school system. Therefore, such laws, without fundamentally different solutions that would be distanced from previous times, cannot lead amendments to the necessary level of quality. Only amendments can be fixed in terms of better functionality. It is therefore necessary to adopt reform laws concerning education and the definition of a comprehensive education system to be included in the European educational space. That education reform does not suffer hasty and improvisation, it is true, but it does not suffer even years of delay. The other thing I'm trying to say is that there are important improvements in the bill that will make us vote for these laws, and I'm going to list some of them. First of all, the ban on all kinds of discrimination, physical punishment and insult of students is progress compared to an earlier solution. The introduction of electoral items, religious classes and other electoral items, too. The separation of administrative and professional - pedagogical supervision - in that part of the DSS MPs, which was accepted by the government, improved and improved expert-pedagogical supervision. The change in the process of passing the qualification exam and the admission exam in order to enroll the school is a significant improvement and relief for both students and school. Provisions relating to the professional training of teachers, during which they can acquire the calling of a teaching counselor, mentor, instructor and senior pedagogical counselor, are also good, provided that there is an elaborate examination of the professional training of teachers. However, such a system still does not exist in Serbia, and will likely be quickly built. By introducing parent advice, as a significant advisory body, we are approaching European standards. Finally, the important paper adopted by the bill is decentralisation which increases the participation of the local community in school management, as well as changes in school director selection procedures. So the laws we are discussing today are, I repeat, just the beginning of the process of reforming the education system. This way, formulates do not provide an opportunity to solve the accumulated problems facing schools, provide neither mechanisms nor create institutions that can solve them, nor rehabilitate those that existed until 1992. As you know, in the early 1990s, all power was concentrated and centralized in the hands of the Ministry of Education, professional institutions engaged in improving the teaching process were abolished. The educational council that existed in Serbia for nearly two centuries, as the most professional and advisory body for the field of education and the school system, was abolished to provide the ministry with a monopoly of decision-making on all issues of education. In addition to the Educational Council, it is necessary to create a number of other educational institutions, for the educational programme, accreditation, evaluation etc. It is only with the formation of these institutions that it is possible to further democratisation the education system. Finally, these laws will not significantly change the existing school system that is basically designed to block creativity and initiative. Schools have been reduced to executive institutions, they have been deprived of pedagogical autonomy regarding curricula, choice of textbooks, etc. The current schools are holding back talented students and insisting on the amount of knowledge, the textbooks are obsolete and in some of their parts unadjustedly written in vague language. The course, however, is characterized by a variety of different and debossed objects, and it is a very difficult way of grading because children learn only for their grades. Of course, it's easy to list what's missing, to describe what's wrong, and to record other people's failures, but things won't improve until we measure the state of education and we clearly don't see the conditions of her rebirth. A long-term social strategy is needed to reform the education system, where all the minds of our people will be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20778	The word has been given by the MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by the MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20779	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be nothing new if I say the situation in Serbian education is extremely difficult. Educational workers with extremely low incomes in the vast majority are not motivated or are at least not motivated enough to perform quality teaching. Due to the extremely difficult material position of our schools, chalk and board are still the only means of teaching. For the same reasons, in a large number of schools, classes are not adequately represented, or are not represented at all. Deficitary personnel are almost impossible to bring to schools, for a profit with a warm meal and a regression amounting to about 300 DM. Unfortunately, neither the changes that came in 2000 nor the current DOS government changed anything in our education. And today, educational workers are at the bottom of the scale when it comes to earning and living and working conditions, compared to other budget users such as police, state administration, justice or health care. The new law that is ahead of us does not bring anything of quality new, which would motivate educational workers to perform better education. The basic problems of the new law that we in the SRS want to point out, and we've already partly pointed out, are the following. First, this proposal does not exclude political action at school, as the minister said. In fact, a member of the 1st former law, where political action was decidently excluded at school, has been deleted. The new member of the bill has something to say about it, but it is said in a twisted form, so it remains the possibility of political action in schools. I have to say, there's been political activity in schools before. However, this work was the strongest and most pronounced in September and October 2000, when many teachers in secondary and primary schools performed their children and students on the streets to demonstrations and protests. There is this political action today, as all directors have been replaced by October 2000 and they are new, by chance all of them are members of the DOS party. Secondly, the proposal for a law in school introduces another subject that no one knows what it's called or what its contents will be. As far as religious science is concerned, the SRS doesn't mind studying in schools. However, the SRS is against legal inaccuracy. We believe that the law must clearly state what traditional religious communities are, or churches in Serbia that can exercise the right to this subject. If this remains defined as the case in the proposal, we risk having sects installed legally in schools and among children, and we know very well what the consequences of sects in our schools are. As far as the second subject is concerned, the law knows only that there will be ethical-humanistic content. The SRS thinks he's unnecessary at this point, excessive and that he can't be an alternative to religion. Children can and should study these contents in other subjects. These other items must be covered by such content, but I primarily believe that educators must have a positive impact on students from an ethical and humanistic aspect by their behaviour and approach to the profession. Unfortunately, it is very difficult and unrealistic to expect in the conditions in which educational workers work, with earnings equal to the average income in the Republic of Serbia. The third principled SRS remark refers to a school board that existed in the earlier law, but is even more affirmed by the proposal. So far, the practice has not shown any positive effects of this kind of school management, because it comes down to self-management, especially when it comes to the fact that in most school boards (especially secondary schools) people who have not even graduated from high school are. At the same time, however, these people are politically similar to the current regime, which determines the composition of school committees. So, the school board is primarily a means of political manipulation at local level. According to the SRS, the founder, whether it is a republic, is governed by the school, whether it is a legal or a natural person. Fourthly, the bill also obliges high school to educate parents' advice and participation in school management. I think the advice of parents should have been of a university character, to leave the legal possibility to form, and to make it clear to parents themselves whether they have an interest and desire to form it and thus participate in school management through the advice of parents. I'm afraid this will be another instrument of politicization and political manipulation in secondary and primary schools. Fifthly, it is an unclear view that the secretary in primary school must have high professional training and that the director may also be with higher professional training. They are not clear motives that led the promoter to propose such a provision. The sixth, in addition to the above principles, I will point to some, to say, technical errors, although these are not technical errors in this proposal. In Article 2, paragraph 5.3) mentions the quality of work of the school, i.e. the home of the students. I simply don't think it's possible to value school; teachers, directors, not schools can be valued. This shall also be repeated in Articles 6 and 8 of this proposal. Finally, the question of the minister - what about the real reform of education in Serbia, which will reduce student burden, separate significantly from less important for individual education profiles in secondary schools? The law says that the student can have up to 31 hours a week and four hours of university teaching, which is almost the same as the obligations of employees in the economy and the state administration, i.e. public services. If it is added that the student must also prepare for teaching at home, if taken, after all, given that children are involved, then it is clear that children are too burdened and that a reform should be implemented to reduce this burden on children. Also, this law predicted so-called. private schools, schools whose founders are legal and physical persons. The law does not prescribe criteria and conditions for the establishment of these schools and for their normal inclusion in Serbia's education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20780	The word has a folk MP Anita Beretic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20781	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is ahead of us with the draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law on elementary and high school which is a first and quite important step precisely in an important process that is on the scene in our country in general, which is the process of depolitisation. As far as school is concerned, it's an even more general process of democratisation. Working at school, working with students, back a few burning years, in the wake of general social events that naturally reflected in all areas, and so on in our schooling, I was often amazed by where this child, a student in that position, was often, as between hammers and anvils -- on the one hand, constricted by the real problems of employees in education (meaning status problems of educational workers), on the other hand, under the pressure of the general social community for continuing to prove that education is just one of the priorities of society, and we know very well that it was not in practice. So in this proposal, the amendments and additions are kind of important to me, and I would like to impose three topics. The first, which I think is the essence of every education system, is the personality and status of the student himself, so I wouldn't diminish the importance of a member of this law at all. The school is said to prohibit activities that threaten or degrade groups or individuals based on racial, national, language, religious or semi-distribution, or political definition, as well as inciting such activities. Physical punishment and insult of students are forbidden at school. I can responsibly argue, and I could, unfortunately, take a lot of time here to list the specific situations that I've witnessed and that I know of, and they've been going on in schools, in which way all of this has been carried out through children's backs in practice. In this regard, of course, it is a member of the 15th same proposal (where the obligation of respect for the first member is increased) which reads: "Teacher, expert associate and educator who does not achieve the objective and tasks of education and education; does not implement the curricula and the programme; in his conduct he endangers or demeans groups and individuals based on racial, national, linguistic, religious and full membership, that is to say, political commitment, or encourages such behaviour; physically punishes or insults the personality of students, the school director distances the teaching to decision-making in the disciplinary procedure. "I personally had the intention to strengthen the importance and importance of this 15th member and to bring him into contact with the article concerning the items affecting the resolution of the director, so we can discuss this further. Another important topic is, of course, the supervision that the draft of these laws practically separates (and this is very good) on administrative and professional-pedagogical supervision, and in practice so far it has been united. It has often proved to be very inefficient and professionally unfounded, because we are indeed talking about two topics. It is quite a good solution for the Ministry of Education to oversee the legality of the work of the school, its acts, through inspection, and for these tasks to be carried out by an educational inspector, to be a professional person, means, a graduate lawyer, with a professional exam for the work of the authorities of the state administration, and for the professional and pedagogical supervision to be conducted by an educational advisor, means a person with a suitable high school training, a professional exam and with five years of work in education. It has often been in the past that under the term of inspectors, there is a "beach of God" which is mainly tasked with coming to school, running through school, especially in some situations where certain teachers, or a simple climate, have been ordered to calm down in a particular school, so that these people themselves have been very often in unpleasant situations, because they are, of course, expert in a particular teaching area, not in an area covered by lawyers with these qualifications that I have highlighted. Therefore, it is very important that this professional supervision is carried out by counselors; I even like the term in this language, because I think that the main function of expert-pedagogical supervision is, and must be, exclusively related to the achievement of prescribed curricula and programmes, for their promotion, for help, for advisory work with teaching staff, which is also necessary. I think it's important to point out the following -- Article 16 provides for teachers to advance. I think it's very connected precisely to this expert-pedagogical surveillance, i.e. by the advisory action of this department of the Ministry. Therefore, it is envisaged that during the course of professional training, what is normally a teaching staff and compulsory, an expert associate and an educator can acquire the calling of a pedagogical advisor, a mentor, an instructor and a senior pedagogical advisor, and therefore a certain knowledge market is right, open, competitive, and it can and should act very positively. The school boards - of course, it's a controversial topic, although I don't see the excessive reason why so much controversy about it has risen. I think that in 1992, when the previous, or applicable law was passed, it was not necessary to be a legal expert, an expert, it was enough to be written only and carefully read the provisions of the law, which pointed out and determined the formation of school boards and appointment of directors, and then it was clear who around (the photobot we could make) could be set up and in which way for the school director at that time, all the while. The school board, as a school management body, is based on this three-part proposal, in equal numbers -- on representatives of local self-government, representatives of the teaching council and representatives of parents. I think it's one real measure, it's representatives of three basic stakeholders, who are directly connected to that unfortunate student, whom sooner or later everyone in their disputes and explanations forgets more or less. I don't know which interest group, apart from parents and teachers themselves, is more directly related to the positive status and treatment of the student, and I don't see any reason to disrespect the participation of the parents in the management of the school itself, because the advice of the parents, who otherwise existed only in primary schools, but not in high school, was, in my opinion, not by accident but certainly deliberately marginalized. It was such a free association, where educators mostly chose parents they knew personally, and they never, ever, or rarely, when they met or had any function. Compares work, according to previous, or applicable law, the school has parent advice, as an advisory body. The parents' council discusses issues of student success, student cooperative work, school calendar, field trip, school work conditions and other issues identified by the school's statutes. According to the proposal for this law, paragraph 3 states that parents' advice discusses the success of students in learning and government, the purpose of using the funds achieved by the work of the student cooperative, the extended work of the school, of donations and the funds of parents in the special fund of the school. I think it is extremely important that it is already with the school board itself, and especially that parents themselves have insight into the way of getting, and of course, in the way of spending the funds; it is very good that this special fund is formed and for the sake of control, to know where and how money is being spent, because it is already said here that an unlawful way of obtaining additional school income, and especially their spending, has often been the main motive to take the place of school director. I fully support and believe that with this step, with these changes and additions, we will actually open this way of democratisation within our school system. Of course, I am extremely eager to expect a new complete law, which, in the right sense, will have a student in its centre, with students and a curriculum and a program that will finally put him in the centre of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20782	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20783	Dear Presidency, esteemed members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have proposals on amendments and amendments to the law on primary and secondary school; in view of the short time since we have 10 registered from the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Schools, and I would refer only to the two or three solutions given in this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as proposing the law on changes and additions to the Law on Primary School, is also calling for a universal declaration of human rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, and introduces religious teaching and civic education as a university subject in basic education. In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools, this is regulated by the provisions of Articles 20, 22, 23, 48 and 67 relating to the curriculum and the programme of religious teaching as an electoral course, the textbooks of religious teaching and the kind of professional provision for teachers of religious teaching. The SPS and its MPs are not against religious teaching, but they believe the issue has been resolved by constitutional provisions and the right to confess faith is the intimate matter of every man, every citizen. The introduction of religion into the teaching process is contrary to constitutional provisions. The church is separate from the state and has the freedom to organise religious schools. Once again, I would remind myself of the fact that the introduction of religion into schools was done quickly and without proper preparation. The current government introduced religion overnight, not because of the religion itself and the church itself, but because of its own work, to score points with churches, religious and church organizations. I believe that this introduction of religious teaching will have a number of negative consequences for both faith and religion, for at least a few reasons. First, it is not prepared or clearly defined professional profile of teachers of religious teaching, which will inevitably lead to different qualities. That circumstance can only harm the religious community. Second, the unpreparedness of organising religious teaching will negatively reflect on the very students of religious teaching and rather reject them of faith than attract them to faith. Thirdly, to organise religious teaching in Serbia, we will spend considerable resources that churches could much more rationally use to organise religious life, religious schools within religious facilities, to rebuild and reconstruct abandoned religious objects, and all of this would be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 79. The draft law amending the Fundamental School Act refers to the reception, i.e. the choice of teachers, professional associates and educators. I believe that teachers, i.e. teachers and class teachers, who work for five or more years in villages far from the city, with difficult conditions of travel to work, as well as other difficult working conditions, should have the advantage of competing in urban and suburban schools. This would regulate the issue of teacher’s staff, i.e. teacher’s staff, in remote villages. If the teacher knows that after five years of work in a remote place, he will be given the opportunity to work in schools in a city or suburban area, he will be easier to determine that he works in places where working conditions are far more difficult, and above all, I think of a younger frame. Many young people will be happy to decide on a solution like this, and this is how we would solve this problem. The village would then receive young teachers, and schools would remain in the most remote places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20784	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mihajlo Jagodic, and the next registered speaker is MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20785	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister is not present, respected co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, these bill proposals I see before us as the first step towards moral and spiritual cleansing of our education, because these first steps are always the hardest. Every school has two functions. One function is education and another is education. Our government and the Ministry first tackled education, and it's not just a school job, it's a family and the whole society. So this first step, which the Ministry has taken, is one difficult step in which we need to support it. I think that we have to afford a young generation now, because over a long period of time it's been stagnant and it hasn't been good. Anyway, there's a connection between parents and teachers through parent advice. There have been attempts to install a parent’s advice before and it has been established in high school, but here it is done on a wider path, in fact, one parent is chosen from each department to the council, delegated, to help improve that education. Surely the key is the first member of this proposal for a high school law, which states in the second attitude that physical abuse is forbidden, or highlighted as a problem, as well as an insult to students. [[Sagar.]] It is, in a way, old - fashioned and anachronous, like the term itself, that whole term. Because the Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed by Yugoslavia, and brought by the UN General Assembly, gives the state one great duty -- to protect the child from all abuse and neglect, physical, mental, sexual and the use of narcotics and psychotropic substances. Here, in our law, the solution is to some limit half-way. We have a ban on physical punishment, and we have an expression that was used in the bill -- insulting students' personalities. Surely it's a rope rather than a mental abuse. Because mental abuse includes verbal punishment, lack of reward, affection, attention, and support. So there's one more complex problem that needs to be seen better, and I think I'm an expression -- insulting our student's personality, not wide enough to cover everything. It falls into the eyes that the bill lacks - the fight against drug use and psychotropic substances. It's one problem that grows to great limits year after year in elementary and high school. That's why I think we need to get those parts into Article 8. So -- sexual abuse less, but -- this fight against drug abuse, like trodon or some other drugs, psychotropic, and psychotropic substances, like marijuana and other drugs, means that we don't have enough emphasis in this law, and that should be; that would be one of the remarks. I welcome the decentralisation that he is trying, in the first steps, to do this bill, to bring down to the level of the municipality and local self-government of some schooling ingenuity, such as inspection work. Also, I would mention the problem of secondary vocational schools, which are such as to educate staff for more municipalities and even for more regions. I'm an expert associate at the medical school in Zajecar and we, for example, We educate Koda for the Borski region and district, Zaječarski, Niški, Pirot, Srljig, for these municipalities. So when it responds to funding and about other needs, surely one municipality, where the center of that school is, will be weak so that it can endure and we feel, like the Medical School in Zajecar, that we can't get some things out ourselves, so we make deals with other municipalities, whose students are gravitating towards us. So that's one significant moment for which some rules should be introduced in the legal acts, to make it easier for people to do so. Surely we have the opportunity to raise young ones to obtain an immature creature, both emotionally and socially immature. We need to help him create a stable image of himself, that will be done by teachers and teachers, and on the other hand, by peers to be on that level. We need to direct the school to establish the spontaneousness of education, to encourage curiosity, to deal with questions and answers, and to cultivate a creative opinion. It's a significant moment, and we're asking our people to be creators, not mere producers of someone's ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20786	The word is by MP Djuro Popovic, followed by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. National MP Vladimir Garčević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20787	Please establish the quorum according to Article 82. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20788	I ask the MP to state what position of article 82. The second position of Article 82: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly." Now the electronic system shows that there is no quorum for work and I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. In the course of the quorum, I remind the MPs of Article 117(1) that all MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively and to identify themselves in the hall, reminding me of the MPs sitting on my left at the ninth, eighth, tenth and seventh lines, and on my right, all present MPs have fulfilled their parliamentary obligation and duty. I remind the MPs that the failure to comply with the obligation of Article 117 withdraws punishment by the same Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the obligations of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20789	I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20790	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on elementary and high school, which are before us, certainly do not deserve to be adopted by this high house in the proposed form. Two are the basic reasons for this finding. The promoter has, above all, practically disabled the direct participation of the schools themselves in the creation of these very significant legal acts. Also, in these cases, the government of the Republic of Serbia has failed, or disavowed, its declared reform role. As far as I know, the holders of primary and secondary education and education, i.e. primary and secondary schools in Serbia, and at this point are unknown to the solutions that we should legalise on the basis of the proposals we have made. The government of the Republic of Serbia missed, without any explanation to the MPs in this assembly, that it had previously heard the word of the educators themselves, directly engaged in the educational process. In fact, they remained inaccessible to the draft of these legal acts, instead of respecting their word and having a significant impact on the final statement of the motion itself in the preparatory phase. So, the legal solutions offered are in many ways, at least that's obvious, the fruit of cabinet thinking, rather than the whole fruit of desire and determination to reform our system of education properly in primary and secondary schools. The fact is that it does not need much to prove, not only did he fail to respect it, but he has in fact diminished the importance and role of the educational workers themselves; that is, a member of the 19th proposed laws testifys; more amendments from several parliamentary groups have justifiably arrived on them, with a common denominator that members of the school committee are significantly more represented than members of the school who propose local self-government and advice from parents. Instead of such a solution, the proposer explains his proposal, allegedly, by defending parental interests, as well as problems related to the growth of drug abuse, alcoholism, smoking and the functioning of sects on the student population, just as if preventing the awakening of these monsters, which lately threatens more and more young generations, as the echo of the sea that prevails in this today's many so-called developed world, is not also the chronic interest of a vast number of honest and well-intentioned people in schools. I guess you can't deny that there are a lot of parents among teachers who care equally about their children and other people's children in the school bench. In vain, several of my fellow MPs warned with their amendments that the school's committees should be preceded by representatives of schools. However, your interests are more important to you today. If so, consider the fact that we, in opposition, know in which bush lies the rabbit. It is to be closer to two years than the increasingly prominent October 5th, but many remember the events in Serbia in which the director's chairs were enthroned and those who were not exactly equal to their predecessors, but are natural to school collectives. To the truth, some of them regretted only the competent ministry. Isn't this a valid argument to have more teachers and high school teachers on school boards? Among those enlighteners, which, if not, there's a reason to be a few pensioners. Do not retired teachers deserve, at least some of them, the trust of their longtime collectives and educational authorities. I have already said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has forgotten its reform declarations in this case. This, in fact, led to the absurdity of our assignment today. We are offered, at the very least, many half-ways and unscheduled legal solutions, instead of first taking into account the possibility and we are offered to make clear on the need and way of reforming education and education in primary and secondary schools. This is obviously how we're meant to accept the letter of the law that will apply very briefly. In addition, the proposer himself announced the next amendments to the law as part of the reform of education, in his reasons for the rejection of certain amendments, such as those proposed by MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and also MP Dragan Pantelic, both from the SSJ, as well as other respected colleagues. I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia is well aware of its short-termness. Only in this case can her haste be understood that even through her knees, and with the help of often the DOS majority ossions, this assembly brings a package of laws, among which almost all adopted cannot be said to carry a reform sign with the room. From everything out of the question, the Assembly Group cannot give its votes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High School, and in the form given to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20791	The word is by MP Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20792	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, in January of this year, a donor conference was held at the "Sava Centre" that officially launched a reform of education in this country that has been waiting for more than 60 years. The White Paper, a strategy for reforming education, was also presented only after a year of work by the Ministry of Education. The GSS will support the adoption of these draft laws for the reasons why they begin the process of reforming education, as well as the fact that basic human capital in the 21st century will be knowledge, and thus education and at all investment in people and their knowledge should and must have a national priority with us. The future of this country lies in Europe, in European integration, and thus the reform of the educational system on the basis of the European Parliament's Memorandum of Education on the role of education in the integration process, as well as the recommendations of the UNESCO Commission for the Development of Education for the 21st Century, based on starting points: firstly, the development of values that affirm democracy, diversity and respect for human rights; secondly, the democratisation of schools, from the aspect of the organisation and content of school life; thirdly, the development of a regional, municipal and school management system in education, in collaboration with parents and the social community, as a basis for creating a climate to achieve changes and improve the quality of the educational and educational process; fourthly, education must develop the practical abilities of each individual as an independent person, that its abilities, talent, ideas and knowledge can be practicallyrealised , improved and publiclypresented , both in the professional and publicsphere. Unfortunately, like all segments of our society, education is found in very poor condition: with lots of internal debts; no infobase; with lack of equipment; with poor maintenance of facilities; with politicization and inadequate management of schools; in full status and material degradation of profession. Who's to blame, we all know that very well. I see the foundation of educational reform through three objectives that begin in these proposed amendments to the law: firstly, a contribution to the democratic development of the country; secondly, a contribution to economic recovery; thirdly, a contribution to European integration. The beginning of the realization of these objectives is in these bill proposals which are ahead of us, and essentially concerns and views in the following segments of change: the first segment is the protection of groups and individuals from discrimination and the protection of students from the physical punishment and insult of their personality; the second, administrative and expert-pedagogical supervision; the third, professional training of teachers and professional associates and the acquisition of knowledge; fourth, school management; these are school boards, directors, parent advice, school secretary etc. When it comes to the protection of individuals from discrimination, this means that the school prohibits activities that threaten or degrade groups and individuals based on racial, national, language and gender belongings; it is proposed to establish a basis for distance from teaching teachers, i.e. an associate who physically punishes or insults the personality of students. I would especially stick to a segment that deals with professional training of teachers and professional associates and obtaining a calling. We haven't had this before, and that's one newspaper, which will influence the promotion of teachers or educators by getting a call - a pedagogical counselor, mentor, instructor and senior pedagogical advisor. In school management, in the Committee on Education and the public, the most debate is on the segment that gives the draft law a formula3+3+3. It may seem strange right now, but it's completely justified through the dyscus. Two of the most interesting factors for school development, for its advancement, is the one who works at school and the one whose child attends school. So we have a 2-1 relationship if we're going to rule out the political community. By creating a common opinion, by cooperating between teachers and parents, we can come up with really professional and good people who will manage the school and bring its prosperity. Hand to heart, we are witnessing that many collectives are not yet healthy, that lobbying exists on them, so the relationship in favour of the teacher's collective to the other members of the school board may be unencumbered at this point, which does not mean that he will not be changed in later work. So parents and teachers are school managers and all other activities related to the process. We have to go through our parents' advice to educate our parents. Our parents are completely left to themselves in schools, are left to very negative influences; we need to raise this segment of school management through certain education, through giving rights and through really maximum co-operation with other segments in school management. In the end, just let me once again state that the Civil Union of Serbia will support these laws, with a practical clause, where we object to part of the law on religious continuation. The civil union in its programme declaration comes from the fact that in the secular state this right is not possible, so we will advocate the principle of universityism in relation to religious teaching. I would ask the Ministry and everyone else to pay attention to two segments not covered by this law, followed by a later reform. The first problem is the education of persons distracted in development, who must find their place in the reform and legal regulations that follow. Today we have big investments in this special school education system, so that after high school students, the crafts actually get a social pension, because we're not the whole rehab cycle and their employment, and first of all, education is done properly. The second segment to be found in reform is education of children and youth abroad. Just one piece of information: that so-called. The Yugoslav supplemental course, although we have 600,000 of our children abroad (our teaching, with this system of education) covers only 2,500 children. So we have total assimilation. While in our country 13,500 students were less enrolled in the first class this year, so far the small population of students -- 600,000 Serbian children -- is abroad, so I ask the question -- what kind of people are we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20793	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20794	A few things have been said here for which I have to react. A few things even show some legal ignorance; I appreciate that, because we're not all lawyers. But there's something said from the lawyer's mouth, and I have to react. There is a possibility of some disciplinary measures because in this sphere, in the sphere of school, the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities is applied; the Labour Law has been excluded, but the Labour Relations Act in the State Authorities has left that possibility. The advice of parents who don't exist for one of the debaters, there are -- if she's 15 years familiar with school, then probably her child goes to elementary school for 15 years, and they don't exist there, but in high school there. None of the directors' shifts took place due to the political activity of any director. The shifts took place after the end of the term of office. There's something I'd like to say to a number of MPs who take things too literally. These things take it literally so, it seems to me, as if the sentences of some jokes take it literally; namely, a joke that ends in a sentence -- what does a child know about 300 kilos -- but it doesn't seem to realize that a child can't lift 300 kilos. Our school system must be built slowly, to accept absolutely new regulations, and without building a school system, which means strengthening the economic base, i.e. the position of employees, which means the computerisation of the school, which means raising the level of equipment outside the computer, because schools also need giraffes, etc., we cannot pass the roof law, which we intend to bring; therefore, that law that will cover secondary and primary schools, without school falling under the burden. Can't raise a child 300 kilos. One more thing in the end, if these proposals are adopted, we are preparing ourselves, we have a larger text to give to all the families, to all the households in this country a guide on the selection of parent and school boards' advice. So, a very broad action in which everyone will be involved. In addition, no reform has ever been carried out with such a consultation of educators. The reform talks included an absolute number of people who have ever covered the talks in the entire environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20795	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two important laws are before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the Law on Primary School and the Law on High School, 250 are MPs, and 300 minutes for discussion. As far as the Rules of Procedure allow us, there will be as much serious debate as there will be serious laws, so we will seriously apply them and thus continue to go into the field of primary and secondary education. What to say in a few minutes, and how much the Rules of Procedure allow us. So let's start with a sentence said by the minister, that these bill proposals don't lead to a brand-new legislative initiative. We ask - why Ministers, if you think that this area has not been well governed by the laws so far, why didn't you give such proposals to a law that would solve it in a way that you think is good. And if something were wrong with these bill proposals, it shows a chronic lack of quorum, because today's session started at 12 o'clock instead of 10:00, not counting that afternoon break that lasted longer because of the agricultural works of most DOS MPs. What have reforms in the field of primary and secondary education brought us so far? As much as they resisted that the terms of office of directors had stopped just because their term of office expired, you less and less assured most of the MPs of that. I'm telling you that in Nis, along with those directors that needed to be changed, some extraordinary directors who ran some elementary and some high schools were changed. You know who the directors are. What do Serbian radicals hold the most against you? There is no alternative to religious teaching and those traditional churches that must be laid down by this law. As long as suicides are in schools, as long as religious sects operate, as long as these drugs are drug addicts, religious teaching is also necessary, which cannot be replaced by another subject of ethical-humanist content. What you expect educational workers to do, and what you obviously cannot provide, because donations cannot live, is to improve the extremely difficult material position of educators; that, in addition to changing directors, something is changed in schools, so that schools are more equipped, more modern, humane working conditions and that the teaching is adapted to the age of students, to be the way students can be mastered, and that these schools are better and more successful.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-22-0.u20797	This is what we've done today's work and we'll continue tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 153 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radomir Naumov, Vlatko Sekulović, Dusan Golubović, Dragan Šutanovac, Pal Shandor, Miroslav Markicevic, Ružica Veljović, Milos Lučić, Radic Jokovic, Petar Misic, Zoran Bošković and Toma Busetic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I welcome the guests present. A brief announcement -- a continuation of the 33rd session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take place today at 1400 hours, in Hall 1 on the ground floor. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENDS OF THE LAW ON BASE COLLE (joint principle debate with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on High School) The term has a National MP, Miodrag Jaćimović.
