ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17612	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 20th define trusted tasks. In the first position, it says: "Consultation of these jobs is done to all or individual municipalities... "I have proposed an amendment asking for the words "or individual to be deleted." I believe that this formulated position of Article 1 of the 20th gives me the opportunity to bring into an unequal position of certain municipalities, and for which I do not think there is an adequate and rational explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17613	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17614	The SRS parliamentary group will not support MP Muj Mukovic's amendment. We Serbian radicals believe that this is one of the few members of the law where a more serious remark cannot actually be said. In trusting and performing certain tasks under the rule of law and duty of the Republic, it should be borne in mind that these tasks can be entrusted permanently and temporarily. In the event of a natural disaster, for example, which has affected one part of Serbia, in the event of some unforeseen circumstances; who knows because of what a surprising situation the Republic may do for a certain time, until certain interferences are removed, to entrust the conduct of affairs from its jurisdiction to local self-government authorities. This formulation should remain broad. Why? Because it is about the exclusive powers of the Republic of Serbia, its constitutional powers. When those powers are entrusted, then whoever has jurisdiction under the Constitution can sovereignly decide who they trust in their conduct in their own name, in which extent and how long it will be a trust. Therefore, the amendment would not be good, as it would limit the original constitutional holder of certain competences. In that case, he would rather not trust anyone with certain tasks if he had to. He must assess how capable anyone is at the level of local self-government to carry out these tasks. Keep in mind one political moment: if a party holds power at a republican level, it will gladly trust jurisdiction to local self-rule and in a particular sphere, if an identical party rules there as well. Otherwise, if different parties rule at different levels of government, these jobs will reluctantly trust you. But it's like that everywhere in the world: because there's more trust in someone from your party, and that's normal; that doesn't mean in advance some abuses, privileges, etc.; or there's no trust in a particular party, so they're going to say -- well, I won't trust it while that party rules there. There it should be known that it is much more important to have power at the level of the state than at the level of local self-government. It may be a cruel reality, but political reality is present in democratic systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17615	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? National MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this previous solution is really very correct because it is essential and acceptable. However, this amendment is, in my opinion, the consequence of what we experienced in the previous period. Indeed, it was such cases that certain transactions by the Republic were entrusted only to some of the municipalities that enjoyed more trust by the republican authorities. For this reason, in order not to have some, not to say, discriminatory relations, or even less trust in certain businesses, this amendment is intended only to eliminate this one form of discrimination. We believe that the amendment should be accepted, but unless it is accepted, we hope that the future authorities, like this present one, will really take care of it and that there will be no discriminatory or less confidential relations with individual local self-governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17617	I thank the deputy president of the parliamentary group, the reformist of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 166, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17618	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, where confidential business is being discussed. We agree that the Republic can transfer to the municipalities of its choice of certain jobs, as stated in the first point of view. However, in the second position, for these tasks entrusted by the Republic to local self-government and for which the funds are provided, we suggest adding the word that these funds are managed in a special account. Because we believe that if the Republic transfers certain tasks to local self-government, it cannot give up control functions and must exercise control of how these entrusted transactions are done. We therefore propose that these funds be managed in a special account so that this function can be provided as best possible. Also, the observation that local self-government has come into the situation that it has to do these certain tasks, and now we have a situation where local self-government spends non-intentional funds. We'll take just for example a tax on a 3.5% profit fund where one percent refers to funds for the construction of apartments of solidarity. In most municipalities, the one percent is not allocated to apartments of solidarity but has gone to the salaries of employees. We believe that there is an abuse in the municipalities and that these funds must be managed in a special account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17619	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17620	The SRS parliamentary group does not accept the amendment of MP Mark Culibrk, because we generally believe that all municipalities should only have one account. It's wrong for a municipality to have more bills, as is wrong with other legal entities, so money can be hidden. One account at one bank, another account at another bank, etc., and the social accounting service, i.e. the Accounting and Payment Office, has been abolished, and payment traffic is transferred to commercial banks. On the other hand, according to these new federal laws, one of them has already been adopted, there is a concentration of budget funds and such a concentration where even the accounts of all local self-government will actually be sub-accounts of the republican budget account. In this case, of course, there is a possibility of abuse, if the Republic trusts the municipality to carry out certain tasks, and money to carry out these jobs; to spend money unracinally, unintendedly. It is a risk for the Republic to count on, to avoid easily trusting others to exercise its competence, and on the other hand, the issue of accountability must be tightened against those who use such budgetary resources irrationally or unintendedly. If that money is on the other account, in this system where the writer of the legal project has given the president of the municipality, or the mayor, what it costs him from another account unintendedly spending that money. The government has no jurisdiction over him, can only initiate a complicated procedure of his recall, practically, in a referendum. There the government is powerless and therefore the presidential system of government is not good at local level, because the president must at any time be remissive if he loses absolute support for the council members in the municipal assembly, if there are no more than half of the council members behind him who support him. Therefore, the debate on this amendment is another insistence on the legislator, i.e. the ministry of justice and local self-government and the government of Serbia, to reconsider their position on introducing a presidential system at the local level. He's not good, the government can make a huge sum of money to the municipality to pay for a kind of business under its jurisdiction, and the president of the municipality as the principal employer of that money actually uses it for a whole other thing. In the presidential system, the government will, as a result of the plague, run away from trusting in matters of its jurisdiction, local self-government, because it is completely insecure about the timely, safe and diligent performance of these tasks and is completely insecure about the availability of money that it sets out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17621	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17622	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not about any skepticism and pre-determined suspicion of the expertise and well-meaning of local authorities, but I remind you that one of the points of the agenda of this session is the law on the budgetary system, which has been very precisely defined, among other things, and the area which this amendment is the MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia tried to edit. So the control of public finances, the availability of these funds, will be regulated in a new way, different from that of an existing one that excludes the possibility of a special account. People should not be challenged in advance, but I think it is necessary during the debate on this law to keep in mind the law that will follow. Therefore, Article 3 of the Budgetary System Act states: "The budget of the Republic, the budgets of local authorities and the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations are the budget of the Republic. "So, through the law on the budgetary system, the areas that touch this amendment are fully defined and therefore we cannot accept it, not because we doubt the credibility of local authorities in advance or possibly the possibility of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17623	Thank you, is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted to Article 20 by MP Marko Culibrk. For 40, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendment to Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17624	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People, I have proposed that Article 21 be deleted. The bill, which reads: "The municipality performs as entrusted tasks of certain inspection tasks in the field of transport of goods and services, agriculture, water industry and forestry and other inspection tasks in accordance with the law." I suggested erasing for a number of reasons, formal and essential. Formal ones are related to the constitutional determination of entrusted affairs -- I will remind you that Article 113 of Article 3 requires that the Republic of Serbia can legally entrust certain tasks to a particular municipality and transfer funds to it for these matters. So this formulation is quite restrictive; trusted jobs are set up as an exception, not as a rule. Such a formulation, however, turns the exception into a rule. The second essential definition is that, according to us, socialists, control jobs, inspection controls cannot possibly be the subject of trust. I'll remind you again of Article 71(2). The constitution which requires that other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted with the enforcement of the laws and regulations laid down in the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic, with the responsibility of the Republic authorities for their enforcement. I'm sorry, but if you trust someone to enforce the law and oversee the law, you've disproved yourself, and I think the Republic has given up acts of sovereignty in the conduct of the affairs that have been transferred. The third thing I would like to say is about the fact that we had some practice in this area; I would remind you that the position of the municipality as a socio-political community, according to the 1974 Constitution, contained these jobs in the jurisdiction of the municipality; well, to remind you of the practices in the field of the fight against smuggling on the street, in the area of goods and services, where smugglers skillfully crossed the other side of the street into another municipality, thus losing their right to control and oversee on the other side of the street. So, practice suggests that this solution is not good and that surveillance, especially surveillance in the area of transport of goods and services, must be unique and remain in the hands of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17625	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 62, against 106, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals voted against this law on local self-government in principle. This amendment and everyone else we've submitted is a quality comment on every member of this bill. And this law is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, but one of you said -- it doesn't matter the Constitution, it's important that reforms run. What reforms? This law against the existing Law on Local Self-Government is negative, in terms of decentralisation. This law strengthens one man's authority, and that's the president of the municipality. So it's not the decentralisation function, it's the centralization system, the "firer" system -- the presidential system. You stand for the decentralisation system, so you do one thing, the other you suggest, and the third you hope. Article 21: "The municipality performs as entrusted tasks of certain inspection tasks in the field of transport of goods and services, agriculture, water and forestry and other inspection tasks in accordance with the law. "The amendment to Article 21 reads: "The municipality performs as special tasks: inspection of the area of transport of goods and services, agriculture, water industry and forestry. "The bill has not defined the scope and type of inspection tasks that the Republic of Serbia has entrusted to local self-government; either the proposaler will taxively list jobs or accept the amendment to entrust all inspection supervision to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17627	The word is Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17628	Article 21 is completely pointless. It says that the municipality conducts certain tasks of inspection supervision in the areas of transport of goods and services, agriculture, water and forestry and other inspection tasks in accordance with the law. The previous Article 20 says the municipality can be entrusted with certain tasks. When it has already been established in Article 20, which is, in general, a particular emphasis in Article 21 to carry out as entrusted tasks and inspection tasks in the field of goods and services and other areas mentioned here. That's completely pointless. It is an unnecessary excess of legal norms, which can only create confusion in legal traffic and nothing more. What's possible here? To completely evict Article 21. (that amendment you had just before, submitted by Zoran Nikolic and not accepted) or to establish that the municipality has certain competences in this area. It's not a good argument that we just heard - that the problem, if the municipality has that jurisdiction in the area of inspection supervision, is that the smuggler from one side of the street will cross the street and avoid the municipal inspectors from one municipality. Here you forget that what's municipal jurisdiction in independent municipalities in cities, where municipalities are divided into streets, is the city's jurisdiction. The city municipality is not a municipality in the right sense of words, so such practice cannot happen. It would not be the authority of the city's municipalities but the city of Belgrade or the town of Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. So, this city performs as a municipality, with the city being called because it has a lot more jurisdiction than the municipality itself, and there is no less jurisdiction than the city municipality does. It would be no problem if you accepted this amendment, if the municipality had certain competences in the area of inspection of trade, especially retail trade. It is much better, in the nature of things, that municipal inspectors do so, provided they do their job safely than everything is a matter of republican inspection. Let the Republic's inspection deal with something bigger. Which would be a republican inspection of market surveillance, for example, green markets or flea market and the like. All of this can be a matter of local self - administration and inspection services of municipalities, or cities. In that case, it should be clearly defined, and not one senseless norm should be incorporated into the legal system. Everything said in Article 21 is already understood by Article 20. Then why Article 21? If indeed every municipality should have certain competences in the inspection of the traffic of goods and services, agriculture, water and forestry, it should be given that jurisdiction as original.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17629	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 59, against 107, two abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Vukic tabled an amendment proposing that the chapter above Articles 22 and 22 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, the word is Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17630	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given the fact that the Justice Committee has accepted this amendment, and that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing, and very quickly, amending the law on internal affairs, which will precisely regulate the issues and responsibilities of the local police, the Government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17631	I thank Mr. Secretary. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill since the committees have already accepted it. National MPs Toma Busetic and Milan Stankovic have tabled an amendment suggesting that article 22 be amended. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17632	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia have proposed that the name - local police change to - municipal police. In this regard, we have had too many powers as discussed in the 22nd article, and we believe that this law does not define the relationship between local and republican police. Taking over responsibilities in the area of local traffic and assistance in the work of inspection services will not achieve greater efficiency of inspectors, nor will better traffic security be ensured. This proposal gives too much authority to the local police, and therefore... (speaks - members have been accepted)... and a direct head of the municipality, the president of the municipality. What we are particularly concerned about is that there won't be enough resources for new responsibilities, whether it's the original work or the entrusted business. The communal tax on music in cafes, on domestic animals, or on self-delivery can hardly provide enough resources for local police, for primary health care or for primary education, especially in conditions where sales tax, belonging to municipalities and cities, is in most cases 8%, which is absolutely insufficient. The funds needed may reach 30 municipalities, but the remaining 150 will therefore be in even greater poverty and will not be able to take over the security of the functioning of the institutions mentioned. But we don't worry much about local police. Our much greater concern is that funds will be provided for homes of health, that funds will be provided for primary schools, because it is quite certain that after the adoption of this law, a number of health homes will be shut down, as well as some primary schools. It's nice to have Minister Batic here, so I'll take the opportunity to say that this is a good solution - to wipe out. But I would ask him -- why this increase in crime in Serbia? We could somehow understand that the criminalization of society was in the time of sanctions, bombings, etc. But now that democracy has come, there's no time not to hear that the bank has been robbed, the post office, the exchange office... (louds -- there's money) and where did that come from now. Let's not talk about everyday murders. Perhaps the minister and around these robbed couples would be able to say something. You say it's a pensioner's money, so they're not marked. Maybe it's money for the salaries of Serbian government members.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17633	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Please, the word is Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17634	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the amendment of MP Tom Bushetic can be accepted for two reasons. First, because the removal of the member himself has already been voted, so it is pointless to change the name of an idea that no longer exists. And secondly, the change is called the local police community police doesn't mean anything in practice, and even disrupts the logical system on which a law on local self-government would have to rest, because this isn't the law on the municipal system, this is the law on local self-government. What's the difference between local self-government and the municipal system? The communal system exists in a totalitarian society, in a totalitarian society, where it is left on a communal level... (votes - that's good), can't totalitarian society ever be good... something like a common function, because a commune means - common. And this is a local self-government where at a local level it manages on its own within certain competences. Thus, the term - communal, although it remained very long in the public jargon, should be gradually excluded from legal norms because it does not correspond to the character of the system in which it appears. But something else is much more important here. A short time ago, Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic accepted on behalf of the government the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Aleksandr Vukic. Thank him for accepting that amendment, so we didn't have to argue and convince you. I'm glad we convinced you. But I can't resist temptation without pointing to a problem that has arisen here and actually testifys to the way the Republic Government works. The government of the Republic of Serbia first rejected the amendment of MP Aleksandr Vukic, with an explanation -- the amendment is being rejected because special legislation, which regulates domestic affairs, will bring all questions related to local police closer to being settled. And then Vladan Batic comes out and says -- the amendment is accepted, with the same explanation -- because special legislation, which regulates internal affairs, will bring all questions related to local police closer to being settled. So the same argument for refusal and acceptance. Now, that's our government. Otherwise, to convince you that the question of possible local police is no longer being put on the agenda, I'm going to make another argument. The basic instruments through which the monopoly of the state is expressed by physical force, organized and legal physical force are military and police. The military and the police can only be the instruments of the state. Local self-government is not a state. It's not even a small country, and that's why it can't have instruments of armed force. But the state is interested in the local self-government functioning in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which is why it provides its armed forces with this functioning. It's a key theoretical argument that the military and the police can only exist at the state level. In the totalitarian system, it can be different. You can reorganize territorial defenses at the level of the municipalities, every municipality of your army. We had it in Tito's time, but it's already a question of leaving the basic constitutional concept and elementary democratic principles. In democracy, only a state can have an army and a police force. Where someone else, next to the state, has an army or police force, these are already defects within the democratic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17635	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17636	Dear Mrs Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have accepted the amendment to the SRS, but not because we think that local police would be a defect in a democratic society, but because we are aware that there is no accompanying legislation, which would fully define the jurisdiction of local police and determine its role in the social security system. The function of the local police is precisely in approaching the police citizen, in his daily conduct of affairs and in everyday life. It is very clear that there is a need for local police, but at this point there are no laws to address some of the problems pointed out by Mr. Seselj, apostrophe of certain problematic situations, which could arise if some local police function exaggerated and, let's say, recognised the space for achieving some of its political roles, which in itself cannot be an analogue position at the level of local self-government. So local police are a good idea of democratisation, in the process of defining responsible areas of local security also a good idea, but it is necessary to systematically provide those legal assumptions that would prevent possible abuses. Support for this amendment does not mean disassociating from future support for the construction of local security institutes, which rests on local police, but at this point something like this is not possible because we do not have a modern law on internal affairs, which is currently being prepared. That's why we support this amendment, not because we're afraid of the local security system. On the contrary, he is in need. It is necessary to define the role of officers, to define the role of local police officer in the neighborhood, to define the role of the school yard security in a specific way. So, first the law on internal affairs, and then, of course, at the level of local self-government and following laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17637	He has the word National MP Vojislav Seselj (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17638	Cedomir Jovanovic is talking about bringing police affairs closer to the citizen. What kind of argument is that? We listened to this argument in Titovo and Cardello's time, when the concept of dying of the state in communism was being ruled, and the state died and became self-government of workers and citizens. The moment the state loses absolute authority in the field of military and police, it loses its elemental attributes, then it is no longer sovereign, then it is the original sovereignty with some other parts. The state of sovereignty must not share with anyone if it wants to remain a state. So it must have exclusive jurisdiction in the field of military and police. It's not the approach of the army and the police to the citizens. The police are approaching the citizens by savingly, responsibly and legally doing their job, not by being close to a citizen, patting him on the shoulder and loving him as their own, because police are not doing it anywhere in the civilized world. That's why the local police concept is wrong. He remained somewhere in the world only as a relapse of autocratic or feudal past, not as a democratic fluid. The state must have a monopoly on the military and the police, if it wants to survive as a state, to make sure that the military and the police are doing their job, and not that, as with us, the police become an instrument of the mafia. With us, the police are the main instrument of the mob, and we see it by a number of forms of police behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17639	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Seselj is quite right when he said that further debate on any amendment to this article is quite excessive and immeasurable. Indeed, if we pulled that chapter on forming a local police force, what's the point of discussing the amendment now, any amendment to that article? But it really does not stand for this information that by introducing that local police state is being demeaned, or even worse, that, in fact, the role of the state is being completely erased that way. And then what are we at the level of local self-government, whether we're part of the state or not, and how do you see the notion of the state? Is it just what is located here in Belgrade or are we all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia - the state of Serbia? I'm not a lawyer, and I may not be able to properly comment on this act of withdrawing this member, but it really doesn't go into my head -- what would it mind if this member remains within this law, what would it mind if the new law regulates the organisation, work and other issues in the area of local police activity, what would that be a distraction in this article? But here, let's also accept that and trust the minister that this law on the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia will be passed very quickly and that he, as one of his essentials, will predict the formation of the local police. It is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17641	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17642	The local self-government has a double capacity. It appears as an administrative authority of the state, on the one hand, where it exercises certain administrative powers, and, on the other hand, it is the original self-government of citizens. So, the institution of the political system, which by nature is opposed to the state and its self-will. Wherever there's a strong state, there's a state's will, and there's a theory clear. Local self-government is designed as a way to reach the state, so that state self-will is not all-powerful and unlimited. Citizens within local self-government have certain powers, which are self-organised and self-determined, but should not be in the sphere of key attributes of the state, such as the military and police. And secondly, you would now be introducing municipal cops, who would be harassing the citizens of "tinty" and who would be under the direct command of the president of the municipality, or mayor. Right, he would be the basic instrument of his violence, of violent behavior, which by nature things immediately follow because we have numerous historical experiences. Which, in the area of local self-government, does not involve importing oil, importing cigarettes; therefore, what is particularly attractive, where money is concentrated, not municipal cops. Imports of cigarettes and oil concentrate in the hands of a very narrow circle of people, and you give the community to the police, that the municipality, as a local self-government, appears as a factor of a citizen's aversion, so that a citizen then hates local self-government, instead of hating a country that costs him much more than he does, but he hides it more successfully, than he will be able to hide the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17643	The word has been made by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy chairman of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17644	The Environment Committee has been very careful to consider this proposal. I must say that we will not give up on the concept of returning Serbia to the jurisdiction of local police and introducing environmental police. It will be our mission in Parliament and I am sure that the members of the Committee will support it. I just have to point out -- we had the murder of four hunters last year, we're facing the ecological mafia in Serbia. It can't be just the jurisdiction of the republican police. Therefore, we are confident that the concept of eco-police will be possible in Serbia and that we will get it in the new law. We're sure of that, and we won't give it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17645	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 106, the abstention of three, did not vote 25, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since the Government's representative accepted the amendment of MP Alexander Vukic to Article 22, which has deleted this member and has five amendments, the debate is groundless, but by procedure we have to do it, so I call on the MPs to withdraw the amendments to Article 22. It's about five amendments. Do the MPs Toma Busetic and Milan Stankovic, who have submitted the amendment together, agree to withdraw the amendment? Yeah. ) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milan Stankovic. Are you withdrawing that amendment? Yeah. ) Also, a group of MPs submitted to Article 22 of the amendment: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. Does the MP Slavoljub Matic or Petar Hungarian agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17646	Let me just say, we are withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17647	The 22nd amendment was also submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. Are you withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. ) Also, the same Article of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. Is he withdrawing that amendment? Yeah. ) Then, MP Goran Ciric. Are you withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. ) We move on to Article 23. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic and National MP Rade Bajić submitted to the same amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the representative, the applicant of the amendment, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution is the highest legal act and is the basis for the legislative activity of all bodies. All other regulations must comply with the Constitution. I'd like to read Article 24. The bill, given that it is short: "The city performs the original tasks of the municipality, as well as entrusted tasks under the rights and duties of the Republic and forms of territorial autonomy". So, directly, he is a member of the 24th draft law in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a member of 113, who says in his last position, "The Republic of Serbia can trust by law the conduct of certain tasks to a certain municipality and transfer funds to it for these matters". There is no mention of the possibility that an autonomous province can entrust business to the municipality, because it too, by Article 109. Serbia's constitution, the Republic trusts business. Therefore, the possibility for the province to trust its, from the Republic of Trusted, business. To speak folkly, there is no possibility of "pop student, student of the church." In the original version of the bill in the basic provisions, the formulation was in line with the Constitution. Only in this article did it seem to be a failure when typing. In an explanation of the proposal for the rejection of this amendment by the DSS parliamentary group, it is said: "Amendment is rejected because it is proposed to accept the amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly that also forms of territorial autonomy can be entrusted to units of local self-government of affairs under their jurisdiction." This would not be controversial if it were possible to do so under the Constitution of Serbia. The current Constitution prescribes a single-stage local self-government, with the original competences of the municipality and the possibility that only the Republic can subsequently trust the performance of certain tasks. By adopting these amendments, the provinces are anti-constitutionalally almost equated with the Republic as regards the right to entrust jobs to municipalities and cities. The most measured opinion will certainly be given by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, when one day it is elected. This is what the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, which, apart from the Constitutional Court, should be the most alert guardian of the Constitution and constitutionality in our country, said the following - the amendment is not controversial, is headed towards the protection of the Constitution, but the Ministry of Justice must take care of the problems of a dozen autonomous MPs. In the end, I will repeat, that we do not get the wrong idea, the DSS protects constitutionality, not the existing constitution, because it has a whole series of disadvantages and limitations. That is why the DSS has put forward a proposal for constitutional principles for the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and a responsible approach is expected to be a positive solution to the counter-constitution of future legislative proposals, as building a new reform building on wet land of unconstitution can be a reckless and barren business. Until a new, more appropriate constitution is adopted, the existing should be the Holy Scriptures, both for all citizens of Serbia and for, above all, the Ministry of Justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17649	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17650	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I think we have settled the issue of AP Vojvodina, the Constitution and constitutionality, at least within the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, in the debate concerning the omnibus of the law. That's what we voted on. Returning the story to that level is the potential of all those mutual conflicts that in themselves cannot contribute to what is the subject of our current debate. It is true that there is an existing Constitution of Article 113, which says, among other things, that the Republic of Serbia can legally entrust certain tasks to a particular municipality and transfer funds to it for these matters. But it is true that besides Article 113, there are other members of the Constitution, including Article 110, which specifically states that an autonomous province can define, among other things, the issues addressed to this member of the new law on local self-government. I don't think it would be a good idea to bring the story back here now in those last week and the days when we've been fighting too often, but it's clear that this is coming out to meet the life needs of citizens living in the area of our province, not some political one. The arguments that were present to explain this kind of amendment for us are unacceptable. For us Vojvodina MPs are not a political problem. They are authentic representatives of the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina, who have chosen them to these functions. For us, the Vojvodina Assembly is not a political problem or political opponent. It is an authority of the state administration that is legally established by the electoral will of citizens. We have a duty to respect such a thing. I don't think we can possibly accept this amendment as DOS, by, of course, having an ongoing debate to the extent that there is a difference between the protection of the Constitution and the insistence of constitutionality. I, at the DSS, do not want to recognize the opponents of the reform policy we are conducting, nor the party that will suspend the application of those laws reforming our society. The analogy of the Constitution and constitutionality is something that can certainly be the subject of our story, but every day and every moment that story actually denies itself. We won't get far from this constitution if the existing law becomes an obstacle to every kind of reforming our daily life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17651	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17652	Fellow MPs, our colleague Rade Bajic, on behalf of the SPS, has submitted an amendment to this member for the following reasons. Namely, the SPS parliamentary group believes that this amendment should be accepted, that territorial autonomy cannot be entrusted with affairs, because only a law can be done by means of an act which cannot bring territorial autonomy, as well as because the trust of certain matters to a particular municipality, or the city, can only be done by the Republic of Serbia (so, a republican authority, not by the authorities of territorial autonomy, as established in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Articles 71 and 113). If this amendment would not be accepted and the proposed solution would be applied in practice, we would also create an effective situation to create inequality among citizens in the local self-government system, because some municipalities, or cities, will receive additional jobs, which are within territorial autonomy, compared to other cities outside territorial autonomy. Otherwise, as for the constitutionality of the law that we have discussed here in the Serbian Parliament, which was brought in, you know, by the very close majority, this issue could only come to the agenda once the Constitutional Court of Serbia's work is established. The constitutional court of Serbia has not existed for more than a year for the simple reason that the assembly majority does not want to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, and then to see the constitutionality of not only that but also other laws adopted by this assembly, especially by the regulations under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17653	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, I insist that Cedomir Jovanovic explain his earlier sentence -- that the Assembly of the Vojvodina is the authority of the state administration -- to explain it to me precisely. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Executive Council. ) Second, Cedomire Jovanovic, you told this speaker, literally, that the Assembly of the Vojvodina is the authority of the state administration. You can stand up, but go out for the pay phone, and then get yourself straight, say you thought something different from what you said. I won't insist on it anymore. This amendment draws attention to a much bigger problem. This law does not clearly define a city as a form of local self-government. There is a certain justification for legal project applicants - they were not able to explain it before, to define it. The current law project writer obviously didn't even think about it. What makes the city different from the municipality, except by name? There's nothing else. Is that the fact that the city has more city halls? The Law on Territorial Organization has determined what cities in Serbia are. None of these cities have become a city in the right sense of words, neither Novi Sad, Nis, or Pristina (and which was still there), because they have not divided the existing municipality into more municipalities or joined some suburban municipalities. It can't be the basis of the city's existence. The city must be defined differently. It couldn't have been defined sooner, but I'm asking the question, why can't it now? In order for the city to be different from the municipality, it must have some original authority of the city, not just entrusted jobs, because all entrusted jobs that can get the city can be obtained by any municipality. In principle, this legal project is being set up. It can't, trusted jobs can't be the basis for the city's distinction from the community. It is pointless that the city differs from the municipality because it has several city municipalities, and these city municipalities are pro-forms, they may be at the level of the former local communities by the powers they have; they have very little jurisdiction. Nor has this law increased their jurisdiction, even not engaged in the definition of city municipalities, left to all cities. Then what makes the city different from the municipality? No one's been able to explain that yet. Then why are there cities besides municipalities? Why aren't all the cities simply called municipalities? It's got to be solved. (President: Time. How? There are more ideas. There are more options to get rid of this, but it has to be resolved and it has to be decided by law - the municipality has these powers, and the city has these powers, there are more convincing than there are municipalities. This would then distinguish the city from the municipality, not to expect the Republic from its jurisdiction to entrust more business to the city than to the municipality, so that it would be a fundamental part of their distinction. Then it's legal inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17655	Thank you. Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17656	Dear Mrs. Micic, I thank you, Mr. Seselj, you are right, I was referring to the assembly as a state authority, the authorities of the administration as well as its secretariats. It was a language mistake. First of all, it concerned Article 111 which states what state authorities are, and I don't think anyone will argue that the province's parliament is a state body, that the government's authority is executively greater with its secretariats. I will remind you once again, if we insist on this, of control mechanisms which prevent the possibility of abuse and which are shown in Article 110 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, is said to be the Statute of the Autonomous Province (not to say Vojvodina, I suppose we are talking reasonablely and that at this moment we are thinking about Vojvodina) is brought by the Vojvodina Assembly, with the previous consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If there is one, even assuming, possibility of abuse, make sure that the DOS parliamentary group in front of the republican parliament, at the moment we discuss the statute and its consistency with social interests, prevents something from happening. In this initiative of the resolution ministry, there is no possibility of such fear in this law. In fact, it is a rational respect for the needs of our society and our desire to make it as efficient as possible for the state administration and state authorities. So we will transfer, as we did, to an autonomous province of certain jurisdiction. Autonomous province should be allowed to delegate, in accordance with the Statute of that jurisdiction, to local self-government authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17657	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17658	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, has fully given the debate on this amendment the right to a fundamental reform principle of the DSS, which is that there are no essential reforms without the change of the Constitution. The debate showed that the existing constitution is inadequate for changes in Serbia, for reforms that we seek. We also had a conflict in the adoption of laws on the trust of original powers and the transfer of certain responsibilities to the province of Vojvodina. Of course, in this law, by the look of the law of local self-government, this member that the existing Constitution is not good. That is why we believe, and the draft constitution provides for DSS, that autonomy (regional autonomy in this case, since we have provided for a regional state) can entrust certain tasks to local self-government. We do not see that this is at issue with these principles, but rather with the principles of constitutionality, and we have proposed this amendment. The debate on this amendment, as well as some amendments that will follow, shows only the need to fundamentally reform our legal system and start right from that highest act - the constitution. It shows, as necessary, the need to move forward with reform through reforming the state itself, by bringing a new constitution. That's it. I call upon the Members to plead in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17659	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 69, against 78, two abstentions, 35, a total of 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that Chapter 2.3 and Article 26 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this chapter 2.3, and Article 26, among other things, tells of the fact that this proposal of the law on local self-government has anti-constitutional provisions and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly throwing the current Constitution under its feet and is knowingly violating it. That is exactly what a member of the 118th valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whom everyone should be held as if it were the Holy Scriptures (it is for us). When the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, it was clearly defined which jobs the city of Belgrade is doing. "The territory of the city of Belgrade is determined by law" -- that is the second position of the member; and this was done under the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Local Self-Government, which later appeared to me in 1995 or 1996, to have been changed in the sense that the cities of Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and Pristina were still established, pro-forme. The constitution accurately defines the revenues that belong to the city of Belgrade and that it has a statute that determines which works of the municipality are done by the city of Belgrade and which city municipality in its composition. In this sense, the territorial determination of the city of Belgrade should be observed, because in 1990 only Belgrade had the status of the city because it had more municipalities. The question now arises here why, in such an anti-constitutional way, only a special law for Belgrade, when the constitution makes it clear that the statute regulates the affairs of the city of Belgrade. What you wanted and why it was done this way, through this, what you called it, and what he didn't at all, the system law on local self-government. The question then is what will all this law on Belgrade contain and what you intend to do with the law. The main thing is that the legislator himself in this general confusion when making such a proposal for a law on local self-government does not adhere to the principle and does not speak of us in Serbia having only a mono-typical municipality and that all municipalities in Serbia should have the same position, same jurisdiction, regardless of the number of inhabitants, to economic development etc. Only, possibly, by changing the Constitution could it otherwise be regulated. As a result, the SRS parliamentary group will demand that this chapter 2.3 be deleted from the draft law for which the unskilled DOS government, or a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be rejected by this amendment, which is only correct, said it could not accept the amendment I submitted before the SRS parliamentary group because there is a need to regulate the position of the city of Belgrade in a special way. So you have many needs, to faithfully serve your employers, to write the constitution as they dictate to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17661	I warn you of overtime and on the subject, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17662	Here, I'm finishing up, Mrs. Micic, I'm explaining the amendment, I'm just finishing up, and where did you get that insolence to interrupt me at half the last sentence? That's why we think that your incompetence and need to do a lot of things...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17663	Miss Jovanovic, I give you a reminder on the basis of Articles 102 and 103, and that second warning; please take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17664	I, of course, take care, and you make sure that you respect the Rules of Procedure, but I will end up with that, that the SRS will insist that this amendment be accepted as the only possible and correct one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17665	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17666	The amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic points to two problems. One problem is contained in the legal provision of this legislative project that the position of the Belgrade city will be regulated by a special law. Another problem, in Article 118. The constitution is said to be carrying out the affairs of the municipalities and the tasks entrusted to him by the Republic under its jurisdiction. The problem is that neither the constitution defined how the city of Belgrade differs from the municipality. The constitution only says that Belgrade's territory will be determined by law, and nothing more. All this other stuff that's about the city, it's about some other problems. There is no basis here for the Belgrade city issue to be determined by a special law. What's the "legal specialis" for when the Law on Local Self-Government predicates in principle to be comprehensive in the area. If the issue of Belgrade is left to be regulated by a special law, if the issue of the electoral system in the units of local self-government is left to a special law, then why is the law on local self-government now passed at all, if the proposing is not ready and able to go with a comprehensive law. Why partial access to regulation of this problem? Of course, there is no dispute that the city of Belgrade should exist as a special form of local self-government, but then a little more effort and effort should be put into it, so it is clear what makes the city of Belgrade different from ordinary municipalities. Not because the Republic gives him something, but because it will originally have something that the Republic will not directly interfere with, as the Republic cannot directly interfere in the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. It's the level of local self-government, somewhere between regular municipalities and between the Republic as a state. Where's the in between? It was not regulated by the 1990 Constitution, but the writer of this legal project does not enter the problem at all, and the problem has to be solved once. When? We'll see when, obviously under this power, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17667	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17668	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot accept this amendment, it is necessary by special law to regulate that area that we are talking about at this point. The city of Belgrade is also too specific to be able to set it up in a previous law that is still in force to find quality answers to all the issues that good law must regulate. I'll remind you first of article 117. The Constitution, however, provides an open definition of the city and its role in the system of the state organisation. So, "A certain municipality can be established as a city on whose territory two or more urban municipalities are educated." It's a question of the city and its role in our system as a state hierarchy. As far as the city of Belgrade is concerned, there is a member of 118 who is less or more general and who must be corrected by some future constitution. We believe that the fourth chapter of the existing Law on Local Self-Government does not provide quality answers to those issues that have been observed and cannot be related to the current government, but are essential and stemming from the character of Belgrade, as an environment in which more than a quarter of our population lives. So a special law is needed to regulate Belgrade's area of organisation. We wanted the law to get some time limits, but due to the dynamics of assembly work, we gave up that original definition of Article 26, where the Ministry of Local Self-Government was committed to the Assembly to consider the law on the city of Belgrade within three months. It is clear that we cannot adopt a law in this way, because we would be in a position to break the laws as a Assembly because of what we do in the way we do; there is much work and I am not sure that at that time we could pass the law on the city of Belgrade. Therefore, it is necessary to edit the area in a special way and therefore we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17669	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If he does not answer, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 112, with 22 abstention, he did not vote 21, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. A group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jocic, Dusan Golubovic, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 27th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17670	Dear MPs, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have tabled an amendment that we want to limit the power of the future president of the municipality. Namely, our wish was to respect the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the intention of reducing the president's authority and introducing another body in the municipality, a body called the municipal council. So, this is enlargement, so with the basic functions that the president of the municipality has, another body is being introduced -- the municipal council, which we want to restrict power, we bring down into constitutional frameworks the authorities within the local self-government unit and, of course, we respect that basic provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where citizens of their basic rights of local self-government are just coming through the council of the municipality. The executive body, which would not only have an executive but primarily a control and supervisory function, would have the opportunity to control and assist in the work of the president of the municipality. So the main intention was to introduce, within the framework of the existing constitution, that new body. I remind you of one fact, which is that our Constitution prohibits (and it is quite restrictive) the introduction of a presidential system into units of local self-government. The amendment proposes the introduction of a mixed system, with an emphasis on the elements of parliamentaryism, which brings the municipal body's organisation back into constitutional frameworks, and the powers of the assembly and the speaker of the assembly in terms of reciprocity and balance. We also propose, if this amendment is accepted, that the powers of the executive body, which would be called the municipal council, be reduced to certain, I will list: establish a proposal for a decision on the budget of the municipality, direct and coordinate the work of the municipal administration, supervise the work of the municipal administration, cancel or abolish the act of the municipal administration which is not in accordance with the law and statute and other general act or decision taken by the assembly of the municipality, and assists the president of the municipality in performing other tasks under Article 43 of this Law. It is also necessary to introduce second-degreeness into the authorities of the municipal administration. Therefore, it would be the second-degree body of the municipal administration, which would control the work of the first-degree body i.e. municipal administrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17671	It's Dejan Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17672	Dear MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia has been heading towards better control and supervision of the work of the municipality president and some division of the executive authorities. Our amendments, which begin with this amendment, which determines that the special executive body, or the body of the assembly, is a municipal council, is beginning to develop this concept. In agreement with the representatives of the government and the parliamentary majority, we have come to a compromise solution, especially since some amendments are already accepted towards limiting the authority of the president of the municipality, or control and control (all in accordance with the powers read by Parliament's Matic) mean that the determined powers of the municipal council are clearly defined and that it shares some executive power with the president of the municipality; this is more specifically about monitoring the work of the municipal administration, proposing a decision on the budget, while the president of the municipality would remain the one who would command the budget and who would have it. It would establish a balance control mechanism, and that's something that, according to us, will be good for all citizens and for the municipal government. We hope that this agreement, which we can reach, is to improve this bill, is something in the interest of, above all, the functioning of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17673	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17674	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you for some attention, because this is a very important amendment, and it is actually in the Corps of those amendments, which most of all corresponds to the kind of criticism that has been shown in the debate in principle and which concerned first and foremost the supposedly pre-remended roles of mayors. We believe that a very well-proposed legal solution is chosen through direct elections by the first man of local self-government. We have no fear of this kind of personalisation, because we will find it difficult to find in Serbia today an example of a successful local self-government run by a failed individual. It's just the opposite: all the good cities, all the well-organized municipalities are actually arranged because on their forehead are agile individuals who transfer their energy to the organs of local self-government. At the same time, we have estimated that during the transition period, during the period of constitutional discrepancies that have burdened this law on local self-government, it would be very unfortunate for mayors to take on the burdens that would be passed on to him through the competences specified by this law, which, at the same time, through the personalization of responsibilities, carried out a kind of imbalance, because each type of responsibility had been removed from the assembly of the municipality, i.e. the City Assembly and also directly elected representatives of citizens in the bodies of local self-government. So, we have proposed several amendments that deprive the mayor of these obligations at the same time to local committees who will have to play an active role in the process of electing the Head of Administration, in the process of budgeting and, of course, through a new control-control institution within the framework of local self-government, which our colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia have called a municipal council and cabinet. But we expect the Republic Government and the Resolute Ministry to find the Committee on Justice through the amendment the most impoverished response to this kind of wish. So, we want to fully open up local self-government, make the process public and respond in a good way to every kind of control and control needs of local self-government, even if it was the mayor. We don't have that kind of fear, because, given everything DOS representatives have done at the level of local self-government, we are actually people who insist on the results of their work and the way they work. This is a good amendment, and it introduces a control and control function for the municipal council, or cabinet, in a very sensitive area of function of local self-government, which has been transferred to the mayor, who, of course, retains that leadership, but also shares responsibility with committees who must play an active role in this decision-making process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17675	Thank you. The word came from Mr Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17676	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is more pointless than the very formulation in the legislative project. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs are asking for the establishment of a municipal council institution in addition to the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality to be controlled by the president of the municipality. That's ridiculous. First, our constitution predicts so-called. The convention system, because it clearly says that there are only two ways for citizens, within the framework of local self-government, to decide -- a referendum, it is a form of direct democracy, and -- through their representatives in the municipal assembly, it is a form of indirect democracy. There's no third way. Secondly, there is no classic principle of power-sharing in local self-government. It is not possible to define the judicial authority, neither is the executive - administrative authority necessary. There is a convention system, all the authorities within the municipality's jurisdiction are concentrated in the municipality. All other bodies of the municipality are the bodies of the congregation of the municipality. It is the Constitution, which should be for the government and the minister of justice to be the Holy Scriptures. Furthermore, if introduced, besides the president of the municipality elected on the principle of the presidential system and the municipal council, the question of who is the subordinate to is immediately raised. Is the president of the municipality subordinated to the municipal council or is the municipal council subordinated to the president of the municipality. I can't be even. In the area of executive power, you need to know who the boss is. At the level of the Republic, it is formally the President of the Republic, although it is not. He has very little jurisdiction. He's technically the head of the executive. At the level of the municipality, on this principle, the president of the municipality may be superior to the municipal council, but must not bounce in his responsibilities in relation to the President of the Republic. Like the very small powers of the president of the Republic of Serbia, the logic of the system imposes on them to be very small responsibilities of the president of the municipality. The municipal government - that it has all the responsibilities in the area of executive-government, that it corresponds to the municipality, and that the president of the municipality only symbolically performs certain functions, as so far. Of course, so far there has been a president of municipalities with great political authority based on their ability, but if the president of the municipality is really capable, which he would run away from making an account to the municipality; which he would fear responsibility in front of the congregation of the municipality; which he would fear the possibility of choosing him and replacing the congregation of the municipality. Why is that his problem if it's a man of authority? That is why the provision of the law is pointless, and the amendment is even more pointless, because the introduction of a municipal council institution does not solve anything. No authority of the president of the municipality shall be questioned. The question immediately arises - and what would be the jurisdiction of the municipal council? The competencies of the municipal council, according to this amendment, would only extend from the original competences of the congregation of the municipality. And they are also very limited and reduced to the area of the adoption of general legal acts. Then what would the council do? No one knows that alive. He would have provided a knock-over in the dactyloberio decision by the municipality. What else would you do with community council? He'd make sure the record was sent to the council in time. What else would you do with community council? Answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17677	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 88, against 47, abstentioned 12, 39, a total of 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a key member of the law, and this is the key amendment that needs to be decided on, which would completely change the system of this law. In fact, Article 27 provides for the authorities of the municipality and the promoter says they are - the municipality and the president of the municipality. The Serbian Radical Party MPs are seeking this amendment, which I will explain, that the authorities of the municipality are - the assembly of the municipality, the executive board and the municipal administration. The government, refuting this amendment, has argued that it rejects it because it proposes retaining a solution from the existing Law on Local Self-Government. What is this explanation for refusing such an important amendment? Instead of being convinced that we should accept the presidential system and that arguments about it, simply the amendment is rejected because it is already contained in the existing law. We are absolutely against the presidential system because members of the 42nd and 43rd of this bill have been placed in the power of so many important areas, which one man can't really carry out the way it is expected. It's supposed to be an ibermensch so he can do all that. We have examples in our practice that at the functions of the president of the municipalities we have photographers, both craftsmen and people who don't understand such important things, let's say in the budget, in that they can oversee the work of the municipal administration, cancel and abolish acts of administration that are not in accordance with the law. The question arises, however, how will they do the job, which the advisory body will have. Well, I guess it's best that there's an executive board as a collegiate body, which in its composition always has people of different education, which can adequately propose and implement a policy that, otherwise, SO, as the most important body of the municipality, determines. I would remind you that there is no such strong presidential function anywhere in the world as provided for by this bill. For example, in the Swedish Assembly is the most important body, the president does not have any greater authority, and the executive board is the one who performs the post. In France, there is a mayor and he is the holder of the executive authority, but he is elected by the council for six years and can be suspended from the same council. This one of ours can't be changed, and one member of the law says that the president, in his absence, replaces the deputy elected by that president himself. The president can be absent because he's been in prison for five months and five months being replaced by someone who hasn't been elected by citizens. It's a complete upheaval of power from an unnamed person, some man who came at the will of the president, practically off the street. Who is this president responsible for? Even the one chosen by the citizens isn't absolutely responsible to anyone. The executive board is the one who would be... (President-in-Office - please bring the end of the discussion)... The congregation of the municipality. The president of the municipality does not answer to anyone, especially if he is replaced by the person whom he himself has chosen and proposed to the congregation of the municipality, who performs that function in his absence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17679	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Please, the word is Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of Parliamentarian Gordana Pop - Lazic is very meaningful and based on the basic democratic principles of the division of power. The principle of power-sharing implies mutual control of all three branches of government. In this legal project, you leave the president of the municipality, as the sole holder of the executive government in local self-government, without any control. See how it is in the presidential systems -- the two most pronounced presidential systems today have Russia and the United States. In Russia, the president has his presidential administration, which is completely parallel to the government administration and the president sets up a government. In America, too, the president sets up a government, which is not formally called, but the presidential cabinet functions as a government. In both America and Russia, parliament can replace the president. In your project of local self-government, the municipal parliament cannot replace the president. You have a more pronounced presidential system than in two extreme cases in world democratic practice today. Secondly, you have the president of the municipality taking over all the powers of the executive authority and no one can interfere with it. He can only submit an initiative for his shift by pleading to the citizens, and he himself is able to conduct all the work of conducting this kind of referendum on his possible shift, because he holds everything in his hands, the entire municipal administration. You're making one person a monster within the legal system. He can do anything, no one can do anything about the jurisdiction of local self-government. Is that democracy? Democracy is the largest place where the greatest control is all three branches of government. You're leaving the president of the municipality out of control. For what? Who is this god-given individual who deserves to be entrusted to him without any control? In democracy, the fundamental danger of abuse of power exists precisely in the area of executive-government power. There's the greatest abuse. All democratic countries are making every effort to limit executive-government power as much as possible. We have a process going the other way. We are strengthening the powers of the executive authority, and we are curbing the possibilities of legislation. We have a case (not by chance here) that the president of the National Assembly welcomes the Prime Minister, who came to the meeting of the Assembly. Instead of the Prime Minister, when he enters to bow down to the country of the Assembly, the president of the assembly welcomes the Prime Minister. Or, at our place, at the time of the oath, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, Leposava Karamarkovic, swears he will work well with the minister of justice and thanks the minister of justice. So, with us, all the values are reversed. Instead of the Justice Minister being terrified of the Supreme Court president, his words, his stance, the Supreme Court president swears to the minister of justice. Instead of every time the Prime Minister comes to Parliament and bows down in front of Parliament, Parliament thanks the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament for showing respect to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17681	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 116 abstentions, there was no 29 vote, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17682	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Local Self-Government, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is essentially undemocratic, as participation of citizens in local self-government has been reduced to a level of formality. The assembly of municipalities and committees are marginalised in relation to the executive authority, i.e. the president of the municipality. I have submitted an amendment to replace the words "executive committee" in article 27. I think this is a compromise solution. The reason is that the proposed change corresponds to the local self-government system. The proposed Article 27 provides that the authorities of the municipality are the municipalities and the president of the municipality. The Assembly of the Municipality is a representative body, which is a frustration of local authorities; it is made up of committees elected by citizens in the direct elections, and that is fine; but with the function of the president of the municipality, which is also elected in direct elections, a presidential system is established at the local level, with great powers and almost no responsibility in front of citizens. No matter what the president of the municipality is elected directly, this solution is unacceptable for the Socialists, as the municipality of the municipality is fully marginalised on the one hand, its committees as representatives of the citizens, and on the other hand, too much authority is given to the president, with no responsibility. It represents and represents the municipality, proposes decisions and regulations, and implements the same decisions, is the commander for the implementation of the budget, with which it is, therefore, all financial power; it resolves in the administrative procedure, in the second degree, on the rights and duties of citizens; it appoints and relieves the head of administration, chief architect and municipal manager. The position of the president of the municipality speaks of the unlimited power of the executive body in relation to the representative and is further determined by the way of its recall, which is almost impossible because of the complicated procedure and the large number of citizens to declare the change. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow the existence of a presidential system at local level. That is why I think it is better for the executive board to perform in the municipality, an authority that would emerge from the will of the majority in the assembly, through which citizens exercise their right to local self-government. The government rejected my amendment because it retains an existing solution from the current Law on Local Self-Government. But knowing that the executive boards were composed of experts from certain areas and that they were responsible for their work to the assembly of municipalities, committees, I think that this is a better solution than the cabinet of the president, who is the advisory body, is responsible for the president who sets it up; and all responsibility is borne by the president, who is an absoluteist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17683	He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17684	This amendment is very similar to the amendment of Gordana Pop-Lazic, and I think you should accept it because it affects the essence of the problem. Imagine a democratic arrangement in which the government cannot fall. There is no democracy in a country where the government cannot be brought down. Who's the one who's supposed to bring down the government - parliament. The municipality has a parliament that cannot bring down the municipal government. Today, we have the presidents of municipalities who have concentrated enormous power in their hands, and have very small powers -- purely formal, purely protocolal jurisdiction has the president of the municipality -- but today the president of the municipality is the main authority in the municipality. Why - which is usually the chairman of the municipal committee of the largest political party. Because he has huge political authority. Power is more often based on authority than on institution or jurisdiction. In such conditions, where we already have a very powerful president of the municipality, you give this legal project jurisdiction and a terrible power to no one controlled. He's an all-powerful man in the community. Imagine now, where there are very powerful individuals in the interior of Serbia, so powerful, so financially powerful, still given them this much authority by law. They don't need anything anymore. How dangerous is that? The basic quality of democracy is lost -- which can be brought down by the executive authority; the majority in the municipality's parliament is lost; the government falls; the president of the municipality falls and a new one is elected. What's more valuable than that? And no, you choose the president of the municipality, he's four years ahead of him to seduce such a cowardice, that he can do for decades what he wants. Then the question no longer arises whether he will be in the next term or one of his listeners. He can do that. It's not about whether or not he's going to play the monarch anymore, it's about the role of an absolute master, whatever you call him. You're introducing an institution of absolute lordship, despotamunity. It's a despot. Of course, when you start out like that from local self-government, I'm not far from thinking that your intention is at the level of the Republic to build something like that. Because you'd be dealing with parliament. Serbia's prime minister is attacking the opposition in parliament for not making a quorum; the opposition is guilty of not making a quorum for him, and says the opposition is destroying parliament. Nowhere in the democratic world, no opposition MP will make a quorum of power, but the government must do it alone. (President: Mr. Seselj, time. ) The moment you lose the quorum, consider new choices. You know, in most democratic systems, any vote for the law is a form of vote of confidence or mistrust to the government, especially a vote on the budget. If it falls at one vote, it's over, the government resigns. And with us, the government is attacking parliament because it is not at its will; and now you are introducing an absolute master as the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17685	National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17686	My fellow MPs, I think it is necessary to accept the amendment of MP Golub Rajic, as it is a good amendment. In fact, with the executive board which is an authority at the municipal level, one is established, let me say, the most logical and efficient solution for the functioning of local self-government. The existence of the Executive Board, which would be elected by the Assembly of the Municipality, also achieves the principle of exchangeability and responsibilities of the Executive Authority for what it does. Namely, if the Executive Board does not work well, does not work in quality, does not comply with all those laws of intended action, then that Executive Board should be removed and replaced. I think that this amendment, or a proposal for the existence of the Executive Board, is absolutely coming out of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, where it is said that, apart from the representative body, there should be one executive body responsible. Why am I saying this? I think the past 12 years of the multi-party system in Serbia have been enough time and space to see the applicability of all these solutions, especially at the level of local self-government. I have no impression that anyone was questioning the functioning of the executive board, that is, that way of organising the local self-government body. I'm saying this for one reason that may be a little familiar; the fact is that in 1992, at a local level, in municipalities, then the opposition, and some are now members of the ruling coalition, won 50 municipalities. The number was 74 municipalities in 1996, whether it was parties that now or together with DOS members organised local authorities. None of them had an existing system as a problem for work. Why am I saying this? There is a fundamental principle in local self-government that does not depend on the government and the opposition, which is that all local self-government, or every municipality, without an ideological sign, stands for more authority and more money. Over the past 12 years, both have been appropriate to our situation. I think this law, if it had already gone into this law, should have been a step forward in building a system of local self-government. On the contrary, we have received a law where, unfortunately, one mutant of local self-government is created, where organs that are completely divergent are created, where there are absolutely no conditions for everything to function nalically, and especially to function in the interests of the citizens. (President: Time.) ) For all these reasons, I believe that this amendment by fellow Rajic should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17687	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, out of 176 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17688	A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted the 28th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? A group of MPs, through an authorised representative, withdraws the amendment to Article 28, which ceases to be the subject of the debate. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Does anyone else want a word? The word comes from MP Zeljo Huric, the Sandzak Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the Vojvodina Reformists.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that we, the Sandzak Democratic Party MPs, are fortunate that all amendments are being rejected for the reason that the matter treated with them will be closer determined by some laws that need to be passed. Okay, that's better than a priors being rejected, because basically that means just prolonging. They will eventually become part of a law. The motive we had when we submitted this amendment was contained in that one of our pre-election slogans (I mean DOS) that when we came to power, we would organize elections on the principle of a proportional system. We have a great desire for this to happen because we are faced with one problem, one experience from our midst, that there has been a case where DOS in the presidential elections has received a convincing majority in the vote, and that in the bodies of local self-government we do not even participate in those votes that we have received. So this kind of electoral system would allow, according to that people's -- "how much money, how much music," or how many votes you have, you're going to be participating in the local authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17690	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17691	The SRS parliamentary group supports the amendment of the Sandzak Democratic Party's parliamentary group because it is good, because it is thoughtful and because it meets the requirements of all opposition parties over the past 12 years. All opposition parties sought, demanded and fought for a proportionate election principle at all levels of government for 12 years. This, unfortunately, was not possible in 1992 when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed; it was not possible in 1999 when the current Law on Local Self-Government was passed; even though at that time we managed to narrow down the elections to one electoral round, to at least get rid of the need to create a calculatoral, non-programme coalition in the second election round, and to which individual parties were forced. It is now time for a proportionate electoral principle to be introduced in Serbia at the local level. Of course, attitudes on this issue change in certain political parties, and depending on their specific position at a certain point. One who is in power often tends to retain or implement the majority electoral principle, counting that it suits him most; one who is in opposition, retains or introduces a proportionate electoral principle. We have recently also heard the GSS proposal to introduce a majority electoral principle at all levels, both at the level of the Republic of Serbia and at the federal level. That's possible. You know, if that comes to mind, I wouldn't mind reaching an agreement with Vuk Draskovic and Mirko Marjanovic and then cutting you off automatically at all levels on this issue. You're so popular with the people right now, there's no doubt about it anymore. Just laugh, that smile will freeze very quickly on your faces. In principle, it suits all the most the proportional electoral principle with some moderate censorship. It doesn't have to be 5%, it can be 3%, but to allow representatives of all political options to be present in parliament, because then the government, who has most, will be most controlled, most effectively controlled. Here it is necessary at the municipal level that we have a conventional system, all the government concentrated in the municipality's assembly, and the assembly of municipalities established on a proportionate electoral principle, so that citizens of the most diverse political and ideological orientations are represented in the main authority of the government at local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17692	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Quorum before the vote on the amendment. I remind the MPs that the Presidents of the parliamentary groups can intervene according to the Rules of Procedure. Since this has not been done, I ask the MPs to plead. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I seek quorum according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the vote. For 25, against 122, one abstention, was not voted 36, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants withdraw the amendment to Article 29, which ceases to be the subject of the debate. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, I have asked that the point be deleted, instead of standing stuck and the text to read, "unless in the case of the law". On the basis of Articles 112, 113 and 114. The bill is clear that cases can occur that the committees have a term of office less than four years. That is when the additional elections for the vacancy and mandate for the new elected committee are discussed until the end of the term of office of the other committees. So it's going on shorter. If, after two years, a committee member, due to prevention or due to a death case, leaves the municipality, there is a selection of a new councilman. It says here that his term of office lasts four years. This means that the newly elected boardman has been denied two years' term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17694	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17695	The amendment of the MP Lazar Marjanski is meaningful and amends the text of the law. Because there are already exceptions in the law itself to the rule that the mandate of the committee takes four years, i.e. that the committee is elected for four years. The committee is indeed elected for four years, but if it remains such a rigid provision, then it is in collegiate with still valid parts of the previous Law on Local Self-Government that have not been changed. No electoral law has been passed for the local level. It remains that the term of office of the committee ceases from membership in a political party whose candidate was in the elections.... (President: I ask the MPs not to play with mobile phones, please turn off your phones. Why are you interrupting me? ....................................................................................................... in the event that the assembly of the municipality is disbanded, etc. That has to be predicted. The Board shall be elected in principle for four years, except in the cases provided for by law. You know, you can go to an emergency election. If you remain firm with the provision that the board is elected for four years, then no snap elections are possible. Why disabling emergency elections for the municipal congregation? In one municipality individually or in all municipalities together. Why run away from that possibility? Therefore, the legal norm in this article must be elastic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17696	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 31 to the vote. For 28, against 138, there are no abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment concerns the jurisdiction of the SO. Article 32 of the motion reads point 9 - "the election of the speaker of the assembly and the deputy president of the assembly". We've proposed to be in Article 32. The draft law item 9) changes and reads -- "the election of the speaker of the assembly and deputy president of the assembly and, on a proposal from the president of the municipality, elects the municipal council. "What's this about? We are going back to what the DSS proposes through amendments, which is the formation of municipal councils, or city councils, where cities are. So, the executive power is being exercised by two bodies: the president of the municipality elected directly and the municipal council, which, on a proposal from the president of the municipality, elects the assembly of the municipality. So we appreciate the president of the municipality because he's getting a much greater authority than the current president, first of all because he's being elected in direct elections. There's one more thing I need to say is there'd be no confusion, so that the municipal council doesn't interfere with the executive board. There is no longer a president of the Executive Board, but the president of the municipality will be a member of the municipal council and chair the municipal council. That's the key. I'll add something else that is somewhat related to that article 27 and that amendment of ours 15 or 20 minutes ago, as well as to Mr. Dejan Mihajlov and Chad Jovanovic's discussion: I think there may be a compromise there, so we'll see. All Members of the Commission, please accept this DSS amendment to Article 32(9). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17698	Do any of the other authorities want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17699	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask you to just be co-existent or to express your principled insistence on the control and supervision of the president, or mayor, in support of this amendment to the bill, which introduces a body that will deal with control and supervision. So, not a body that will limit the office of mayor. But at the same time, we define a control mechanism that will, on the one hand, affirm the position of the municipal parliament, make the president, or mayor, fully public, subject to control. So all the time we're talking about a new system-based self-government that should actually be an effective citizen service. If citizens want to achieve full control of the work of the mayor, and we must allow it to be so for the elected representatives of those citizens sitting in the benches of the assembly councils, the Assembly of the municipalities will choose a cabinet, or municipal council; it will be a supervisory body that will deal with the affairs of control and supervision, from which we do not run, but rather, we insist on it. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that someone wants to keep mechanisms that in themselves were dysfunctional because they have led to major anomalies in the system of local self-government, and on the other hand excludes any kind of new ability to control the functioning of local self-government on the concept on which we insisted and which is based in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17700	The Messenger of the people, Vojislav Seselj, and the messenger of the people, Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this DSS amendment is well written, but it's pointless. Why? It is said that the assembly of the municipality is elected by the president of the assembly and the deputy president of the assembly and, on a proposal from the president of the municipality, elects the municipal council. On a proposal from the President of the Municipality, how can a municipal council be elected when the President of the Municipality has exclusive administrative and executive competence and the municipal council would not have any executive and administrative competence. As an organ of the congregation of the municipality, it would be just someone of her auxiliary body. The assembly of the municipality cannot form an authority and give it executive - administrative jurisdiction if it is not predetermined as its jurisdiction. If all executive and administrative functions are in the hands of the president of the municipality, then the municipality has nothing to interfere with. That's ridiculous. Secondly, only where the municipal council is in office of the government does it make sense for the president to propose a selection of municipal councils. According to this bill, the municipal council does not have the role of the municipal government, but is the advisory body of the congregation of the municipality. It can't even be the council president's advisory body. This is incredibly irrationally engaged. This isn't any mixed system. In a sphere that determines the difference between the presidential and parliamentary systems, there is no mixed system, there is more or less pure form of presidential, more or less pure form of parliamentary. In the purest form, the parliamentary system exists in England, Italy, Germany, in the purest form of the presidential system exists in America and Russia. However, there is no presidential system at local level in America either. There are three different variants in all three mayors, i.e. the president of the local government unit has a mostly purely protocol function. His authority, or power, is based on political authority, not legally regulated competences. What you're proposing in this legal project, there's nowhere in the world. What the DSS is proposing, it wouldn't have fixed this bill, it's even more pointless; it just doesn't exist anywhere. Then it's the mending of grandmothers and frogs, so what's the catch?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17702	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17703	I'm not even a professor, I'm not even a science doctor, but I kind of know how to predict something and make some kind of system that could work. Here we are currently working on a system of local self-government, which is one of the different areas in almost every country, precisely because it is specific and should support the circumstances that exist in a particular country. We are working here on a system that will be adapted to the circumstances and conditions that are in Serbia today, which can ensure that citizens meet their rights uninterrupted through this local self-government and that this local self-government is limited and that there is a system of balance and control. This amendment also proposes to elect a municipal council on the proposal of the president of the municipality, a council to control and monitor it, which will have the authority to propose, i.e. the authority of the budget proposal, as well as the control of the conduct and work of the municipal administration. This is exactly the system that guarantees that we get the possibility of responsible and quality government. That's why my predecessors also mentioned that there are three distinct systems in the United States, which means that there are three different systems within one country that adapt them to special circumstances. We in Serbia are building a system that will be adapted to our circumstances, and therefore this proposal is being improved qualitatively and along with others, let's say the next amendment, where it is said that the mayors will set up a municipal assembly, we will receive a proposal, where the two bodies, directly elected in the municipality's assembly, will receive special weight in the selection of municipal councils, and directly elected the president of the municipality will limit. There we will get one more responsible exercise of power, so neither will we have the exact same place as the president of the municipality, nor will we have a municipal parliament that will be able to do everything without the consent of the president of the municipality. It's exactly the system that suits us most in the transition process, which is a well-known balance and control system. That is why we call on the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment and therefore make this bill a better one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17704	The word comes from MP Zeljo Huric, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate on this law, I said that the only dilemma in me that was about this law was the institution of the president of the municipal assembly. I have listened carefully to previous discussions, and I must admit that this dilemma has been removed from me to a good degree. Of course, I don't quite understand how Mr. Dejan Michaelov said that the role of the municipal council is the role of the control body. I don't see his main role in this, and it would be a little illogical if someone I'm the president of the municipality were to be his control body. On the contrary, it is an organ that helps him in his work and the name itself actually says that - municipal advice. It certainly does not mean that he will have this one line of control, but that he is helping him and that he is doing what needs to be done. So I'm saying that the dilemma has been erased and we're going to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17706	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17707	My fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will not support this amendment, because in our opinion it is absolutely illogical, non-functional, practically inapplicable. We, as you know, are conceptually against this bill and, in particular, against the election of the president of the municipality, given the enormous powers that this elected man receives under this bill. In practice, as one of my colleagues said, he really gets Pharaoh's rights. What do we have now? Now we have an attempt to limit such a system, Presidentially. The president's proposing, the election assembly. What about cohabitation at the local level, when the assembly of municipalities is made by committees who are different political orientations compared to the elected president of the municipality? Then what? The president suggests the assembly won't choose. Instead of having an executive board as an executive body of the congregation, which can always be set up and replaced, we are making, or we are proposing solutions that are practically inapplicable and essentially serve to cloud our eyes. We consider this amendment above all as an attempt to find a compromise within the DOS on this law, which is a bad law and it is already visible, and which essentially has none of what is called the local self-government system. In order for this to be a system, it must contain basic elements: it must be simple, efficient, functional; it must be for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia; it must be in the interest of local self-government; it must be able to manage public affairs at local level; it must be known who is responsible for what is responsible and that there is practical responsibility for what has been done, or not done. Such solutions create an entirely dysfunctional system and we Socialists cannot accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17708	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 119, against 43, with 12 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the 32nd group of MPs. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17709	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is practically another in a series of amendments that balances the relationship between the mayor and the municipal assembly, i.e. the city's assembly. We want to transfer the role of mayors in the appointment segment of the chief of directors, i.e. to the assembly and committees, so equally responsible people elected by citizens, who as representatives and protectors of authentic interests exist at the level of their constituency. Under the proposal for a law on local self-government, the last one was the mayor, and this amendment changes it. The mayor becomes a proponent, and the last word is kept by the council, or the assembly of the municipality, which thus shares responsibility with the mayor about a very important segment of staffing at the level of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17710	The People's Messenger Dejan Mihailov, as representative of the Parliament group, came to the floor, and the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17711	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment provides for another restriction on the president of the municipality, precisely because the head of the municipal administrations sets up the assembly on the proposal of the president of the municipality. This mechanism of work, communication and control is being further improved, because it is the departments and commissioners who propose to the assembly and the president of the municipality that all decisions are being made. In this way, control and resolution, it is the control of the Head of Parliament, who proposes them, that one mechanism of better functioning and better work be achieved, and this amendment, with the amendment previously adopted and with those to be adopted, will give one set of balances and control of the president of the municipality, the Assembly of the Municipal Council. It is something that this law and these amendments can achieve, and should vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17712	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the real competition here seems to have begun between Cedomir Jovanovic and Dejan Mihajlova who will propose a more pointless amendment and who will warmly accept the senseless amendment of the locusts. You can see how pointless this amendment is, that the Assembly of the Municipality is electing and authorising the members of the cabinet of the President of the municipality, appoints and dismisss the head of the municipal administration, or the head of the administration. It would be just as if the Serbian Prime Minister were elected in direct and direct, secret elections by citizens, and the Serbian Parliament were to elect him ministers, deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, directors of the authorities of the republican administration, directors of public enterprises, secretaries of the government and his cabinet. What's the president's office? These are secretaries, dactylographers, protocol chief Vladimir Popovic-Baba, etc. So, Djindjic directly chooses the people in the election, and Vladimir Popovic - Baby is elected by the National Assembly. (Glasses: Okay. I know you can, but since you are not aware of the absurdity of this amendment, You're actually making an even more monstrous legal projection of the local government system. Instead of returning to what is only logical and correct, the assembly of the municipality is elected by the president of the assembly, that he is also the president of the municipality, that he chooses the municipal government, and that the municipal government appoints the heads of directors, cabinet members, etc. That's the only thing that makes sense. You're running away from the institution of the municipal government. The institution of the municipal government does not exist. The institution of the municipal government is under the office of the president of the municipality, or the mayor, you are pulling him out completely from municipal control, and then the president of the municipality proposes a municipal council to control him. Imagine Zoran Djindjic, who is now coming to the National Assembly to propose an organ that will control him. Instead of the municipality's assembly to directly control the president of the municipality. (Glasses - the right thing to do. I know it's the right thing to do. You'd want a government no one alive can effectively control. There are such systems of government in the world, but they go on longer and can't be called democratic anywhere. They're called autocratical, dictatorial, despotic, tyrannical, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17714	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17715	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Socialist Party of Serbia will not support this amendment because it is meaningless, dysfunctional, because it destroys even what the DOS has proposed, let alone to contribute to the improvement of what is called the local self-government system in the Republic of Serbia. All that I said on behalf of the municipal council parliamentary group is worth the same and more, because it's even more pointless, for the president's office. So we will not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17716	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting an amendment to the 32nd group of MEPs to vote. For 117 against 41, with four abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I ask the MPs that, since we have another 30 seconds until the break, they will hear the notice - the session of the Legislative Committee will be held at the break at 1400 hours in the hall on the second floor. We will continue the session at 15.00 hours by discussing the amendment to member of the 32nd National MP Slobodan Pavlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17717	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask that, by means of the electronic system, we determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I'm sorry, I can't say it again. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here, you're late for the session, I've called you. There is a word from MP Slobodan Pavlovic, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17718	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Micic, I haven't been late for the session, I've been sitting here for 12 minutes and my card was in the MP's unit before you published what you said. I think it's a misunderstanding. So, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to Article 32. The Law on Local Self-Government, which we are now discussing, therefore, on a member who has defined the jurisdiction of the Assembly of the Municipality, which states that the Assembly of the Municipality, in accordance with the law, in addition to other things, in point 4, reads: "brings the urban plan of the municipality and regulates the use of building land". I suggested that point 4 be changed and it reads: "brings an urban plan and a programme of planning and use of building land". I wrote in my explanation why; avas, authors and legislators, I would like to remind myself that it is proposed and envisaged that the municipal assembly brings the urban plan of the municipality, although I suppose the promoter is well known that, in accordance with the Law on settlement and space, there is no urban plan of the municipality. I interpret it, so it wouldn't be free, I'll read it. Article 16 states "Urbanist plans are: 1st general plan of the city, i.e. settlements; 2nd general plan of the area; 3rd general plan of the network of infrastructure or network of the area, or facilities with special functions; 4th regulation plan". Article 17 states that the city's general plan is for settlements, for the city, for a settlement that has more than 21,000 inhabitants and the municipality's headquarters. So, there is no, ladies and gentlemen, a plan act that is put in the jurisdiction of the municipality to adopt it. I don't understand how the government in response said my amendment was okay, so it is, but it doesn't matter. It is very important, it cannot be given to the authority of the local self-government assembly, so to the congregation of the municipality, to adopt something that does not exist under the law, and otherwise it is said that the congregation of the municipality, in accordance with the law, is doing so. Second, the article suggests that this applies to the construction land, or to the use of construction land. To remind, in Article 19 of this same law that we are now talking about, point 7) it is also written: "brings construction land planning programmes, arranges and provides for the work of planning and using building land and determines the amount of compensation for the planning and use of construction land". What is in jurisdiction as the original function of the municipality cannot be passed on to the authority that needs to adopt it, so I suggested that it should stand: "adopt and bring in a programme of planning and use of building land". That's perfectly logical and there's no need to explain it any further. Secondly, I suggested adding a new point 10 after point 9) which reads: "picks and solves the Executive Board". Since the time has been shortened, and given the fact that my colleague, Golub Rajic, and then my colleague, Zarko Obradovic, within Article 30, explained the proposal of our parliamentary group for the introduction of the executive board, I do not need to repeat it, but count as if the explanation is the same as what the two of them gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17719	Mr. Pavlovic, I'm warning you of an exaggeration of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17720	Thank you for your warning. You're very kind. And thirdly, I suggested that the word "coastal" be deleted in point 15. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to remind, except to say, in Article 10 of the same law that I am referring to, to which I draw attention to the Minister of Justice, it says that spatial plans are: the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, the regional spatial plan, the spatial plan of the area of special purpose and the spatial plan of the network of infrastructure. Well... It's not time yet, please. So there's no spatial circuit plan. I haven't been to the session because of my illness, I apologize, I've timed out, I'm interrupting, and I'm asking you to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17721	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Slobodan Pavlovic was ill and was not informed that you, in line with the democratic spirit, had shortened from five to three minutes of discussion, on a proposal from our MP, who later worried about what he had suggested. I think you really need to adopt the suggestions of an extremely experienced man, who worked very responsibly and safely in local self-government in the city of Belgrade. The SPS wants to point out that legal solutions are complex urban and spatial plans and that in this country, according to the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Neighbourhood, it knows exactly what to do, from the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, through regional spatial plans and spatial plans of specific purposes, to the general project for the inhabited area and regulation plan, as an integral part of the development of the general project. Therefore, the urban plan of the municipality absolutely as such does not exist and urbanism is, as a category, related to settlements, for populated areas. Therefore, in one municipality you can have a general plan of a populated place and the development of that general plan through regulatory plans, and you can have a general plan of the area, which, eventually, you do intended places for some other sport purposes, etc. So, don't see that this was proposed by the opposition party MP, but this was proposed by a man who worked very seriously and safely for eight years in the city of Belgrade, and then at the Ministry of Construction, on the adoption of legal projects and the implementation of these legal projects. In the interest of the citizens, accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17723	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 128, the abstentions did not vote 8 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17724	Article 32 defines the powers of the municipality. However, it is clear that these powers of the council members of the congregation will be truly poor, as defined by this bill. We have made an even greater papacy by accepting amendments to the DSS parliamentary group - by introducing this so-called The supervisory and supervisory authority will practically not know who is doing what in the municipalities. We all have a declarative agreement, honourable Members of the People, that the control of the executive government is one civilizational and democratic fluid. However, such a legal solution will make you a congregation of the municipality practically, council members of the municipality, aware of the maltene at a debate club. The council members of the congregation will not make decisions of any importance. All authorities will be transferred to the president of the municipality, and the council committees of the municipality will come and drink coffee once a month, and they will not decide anything of any importance. With the DSS amendment, which has been praised here and by the DOS parliamentary group, we have practically received the so-called municipal council, which should control the work of the president of the municipality. We have already seen this in the adoption of the Privatisation Act, that the privatisation process is controlled by the tender and auction commission, which the minister chooses. The minister chooses people. In this case, the president of the municipality chooses the people who will control his work and his great authority. You'll agree with me, it's complete nonsense. If you find that somewhere in parallel law, I agree it's a smart solution. The parties will, it is quite clear, go to these elections with their local programmes, with their personnel and people in municipalities to identify themselves according to the quality of these programmes and to the personnel that the programme is to be implemented. Only once, in 2000, that people in the bar opted for and against Milosevic during the elections; be sure that people will define themselves according to the programmes this time. What now - people opt for concrete programs and personnel, we get such and such a congregation of municipalities, committees, etc., and let's say we have a hypothetical situation - that the president of the municipality is from some parliamentary group that doesn't have a majority in the municipality. There will be a kind of blockade of the work of the entire assembly of the municipality. With my amendment, I suggested that Article 32 be thoroughly reconstructed and that the assembly of municipalities be given authority which, first of all, belongs to it under the Constitution. Since I cannot explain it thoroughly in these three minutes, I hope you have read this amendment and will support it. In the end, I find that your enthusiasm is extremely appealing to me when you advocate that the president of the municipality is elected by the majority principle. So automatically, you favor your candidates. However, knowing your candidates at the bar, I don't think you'll win at the next local election of any president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17725	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, although the authority refers only to the confiscation of words or exclusion, and Mr Nikolic was not taken from the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17726	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is very important in its essence. By adopting this amendment, many previous members of this law could be amended by the Legislative Committee, if you think more carefully about what MP Miroljub Veljkovic has proposed. In Article 19, the original work of local self-government was prescribed in 34, and the municipalities as a form of local self-government, and Article 32 speaks of the assembly as a representative body and what it is responsible for. This is explained in 19 points, and we have tried to convince you that all of these important areas, which are listed at 21 points, are important for the congregation itself to decide. If she doesn't decide, then it's left to the president of the municipality. And by the nature of all these activities, it is illogical to expect the president of the municipality to be able, let's say, to age or to ensure the protection of cultural goods; to set up libraries, because he can't, but only the congregation of the municipality; to adopt an act on the protection of certain natural goods - it is of general interest and it must be made clear by the congregation of the municipality; to bring the foundations of protection, use and regulation of agricultural land. So, you can't let one man do all that, and if the congregation doesn't, we really don't see who else would do it from this bill. The truth is, since the proponent in his final provisions says that this law, in this part that we are commenting on now, will only come into force after the next regular elections, we are really wondering why we are wasting time at this point discussing this law, if these next regular elections are, we all know, in 2004. Therefore, it did not even occur to the Proposer to foresee an emergency, early elections; and even if it did, this law would not come into force before some of the next regular elections. Let's say, if they're extraordinary next year, only after four years, when there are regular elections, this law will come into force. So let's not let people in local self-government fear that they're going to have to coordinate their organization and work right after this law is passed. We'll wait, look, a little bit more, because DOS obviously has no intention of allowing for early or early elections, although both social and political tensions are in the country and how they grew and it's time for these elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17727	Is any of the other authorised participants in the debate registered for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 128, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Novica Djuraskovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 149, two abstentions, were not voted 23, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 14, against 150, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Stevan Kesejić, who submits the amendment to Article 34.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17728	The SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 34. The law on local self-government, trying to get this law in order. First of all, this article is about calling a congregation of municipalities. In Article 34, it is said that meetings of the assembly of the municipality can be convened by the president of the municipal assembly, if necessary, and at least once every three months. Already in the first position, the sloppyness of the writer of this law is shown, by dropping the word "municipality" in the first attitude. He says, "The assembly session of the municipality is being convened by the President of the Assembly." Which congregations - do the circuit assemblies, is it possible that Mrs Natasa Micic, president of the Serbian Parliament? Therefore, it is necessary to say that the caller is the president of the congregation of the municipality. The most important thing in this article is to show how many rights and responsibilities are given to the President of the Assembly, who can convene the Assembly only if necessary. So, in that case, council members of the congregation can expect his good will. If problems and the need to call together a congregation session of the congregation ever arise, it will depend solely on his will. As a result, the SRS parliamentary group considers that this Article 34 in paragraph 2 should be amended by having the Chair of the Assembly convene the session when a third of the total number of committees or executive committees so requests in writing, within 10 days of the date of submission. If the president of the municipality's assembly for some of his personal reasons or on the orders of one of his superiors from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or some other mentors does not wish to convene a session of the Assembly, hiding something that is happening in that municipality, then that session could also be called by one third of the committee or the Executive Board, as established by the Statute, or another general act. We therefore propose that this Article 34 be amended and the SRS proposal accepted, as this could lead to a more detailed mandate for the call for a session and regulation under which conditions this could be done, as I said. For these reasons, I propose to the MPs of the DOS majority to accept this amendment, because this way, when they are in opposition, they will have the opportunity to control the work of the president of the municipalities in which they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17729	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, such a solution as MP Stevan Kesejić proposed with his amendment existed in the current law on local self-government and it is very good, because it specifies some of the general requirements of the municipal assembly. The new legal solution is not being put into it at all. Article 34(2) states: "The assembly session of the municipality may also be convened on the proposal of an authorised promoter, subject to conditions and within the time limit laid down in the statute of the municipality. "There are therefore expected to be some authorised promoters or callers, besides the president of the municipality's assembly. There's no telling who they are. It is left to the congregation of the municipality to regulate it independently with its statutes. We will have in one municipality that this authorised promoter may be the president of the municipality, in the second executive council, in a third third of the committee or 10 or five committee members, in the fourth local community, in the fifth assembly of citizens, in the sixth public institution, etc. Why isn't that good? Because this way too broad a solution leaves the possibility of unequal rights of committees and citizens, from municipality to municipality. The right to propose which, as a consequence, has the obligation to call or convene a meeting of the municipality is one of the forms of control of the opposition over the government in each municipality. It's a form of control over the work of all municipal authorities. Each of these authorities must bear in mind that it is also possible to convene an emergency session of the municipality in order to discuss a specific issue which ensues its basic competences and responsibilities regarding the exercise of those competences. It is therefore important that the minimum of these possible callers or promoters whose proposal must be convened by a session of the Assembly of the Municipality be defined by law, and that, in addition to this minimum, which will be determined by law, the possibility to extend the circle of people to whose request the session will necessarily be convened by the statute of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17731	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, the word is Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17732	Mrs. Micic, the respected presidency, it is true that in the previous law this issue was more detailed and more specifically considered. However, that is exactly the difference in the treatment of local self-government, because we do not want to challenge the credibility of citizens' representatives at the level of local self-government. We believe that it is they who should decide on the issue of proposings and the possibility of an emergency appointment of a session of the local parliament. If we prescribe a law on local self-government of situations in which an emergency assembly can be convened and proposing those initiatives, then there is no reason to adopt statutes. Then all questions need to be addressed by the law on local self-government, to make out of 250 MPs of the republican parliament in fact MPs from all local parliaments and thus solve all the problems you point to. There is no reason why it should go further to this area of Article 34, which is very clearly specified in which the meetings of the assembly, which are time intervals, are held. Responsibilities have been transferred to representatives of local self-government who are obliged to resolve these issues through statutes, from situation to situation, not in the same way in each municipality. It is these rights and relations to these rights of local committees that come about in election campaigns and what is the essence of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17733	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 124 abstentions, 21 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Golubovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17734	We're running into some previous speakers, there's a little difference. So it's a congregation of municipalities, I'll read this article 34, because it's short: "The assembly session of the municipality is convened by the president of the assembly, if necessary, and at least once every three months." And we all agree on that. "The assembly session of the municipality can also be called on the proposal of an authorised promoter" -- a broad term, what is the proposed authority; we can talk about it here for half an hour -- "under conditions and within the time limit set by the statute of the municipality". The DSS has proposed - in Article 34(2). The bill after the word "proposer" is deleted and the words "or the statute of the municipality of the established number of committees" are added. So not one-third, but a set number of committees, which will be the statute of the municipality's own statute. I'm going to give an example to the Kragujevec, and in most municipalities it's like that, one-third of the council can call and the president of the assembly is bound to call the assembly within 10 days. Why did we propose this? We simply believe that the proposer of this new law has in one hand violated the function of the board. Let us not forget that the committees are the headquarters, that key to the electoral body of a municipality, and that is why we wanted to install the committees and the will of the councilors into this law, that is, in Article 32. That's the purpose of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17735	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17736	The DSS amendment is trying to ease the situation itself by imposing a legal project. What's the point? The point is that the opposition in the municipality must also be guaranteed the right to hold a session of the congregation at its request. That right here doesn't guarantee the law at all. From municipality to municipality, it is possible to place all possible institutions and all possible legal entities in the list of authorised proposings, except opposition committees. The amendment promoter leaves the municipalities with the right to say what the number is, but obliges the municipalities to provide for the right of the committee in their statutes, committee groups to convene the assembly session of the municipality or to have their request as a mandatory consequence an appointment of that session. That's what matters. Just before, Cedomir Jovanovic said that they, as great Democrats, leave it as a question that depends on the will of the municipalities themselves, conscious self-rulers at the local level, which will best determine it. Then why didn't you leave the question of the president of the municipality that way? Some municipality will then go to direct elections, by direct voting, and let it go to the president's election of the municipality, etc. What's the difference with the president of the municipality that you have to strictly regulate it, and then where it comes to the essence of democracy, the right of someone who thinks differently, you don't guarantee that this right is expressed through the functioning of the municipal congregation. That's why it would be important. We will not vote for the amendment because they neither vote for any of our amendments and that is the only reason; and the amendment is good, but we will not vote for it for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17737	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17738	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the fate of this member is now in the hands of Mr. Batic, I will ask him, I am not sure he will agree, that the Government amends this member by amendment and that it is said, to take care of the SRS, because if you applied the previous provisions that speak of a third of the council, in no assembly you could call an extraordinary session, because you are irresponsible and because you are an irresponsible opposition today. You've been late for this session for an hour, and now you're wasting our time here by making no sense of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17739	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 119, abstention 14, 33 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17740	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have tabled an amendment by the Soviet Parliament group to Article 34 to be in Article 34. The draft law after Article 2 is added by two new positions 3 and 4 which would read: "The President of the Assembly at the assembly session of the municipality must call and the MPs who are not committees, who have been elected from the territory of the municipality, with the right to participate in the work of the session without the right to decide. The president of the congregation is obliged to provide in the building of the municipality of the conditions for the work of the MPs elected from the territory of the municipality (officellery and others) related to the reception of citizens. "The MPs as elected representatives of citizens have the duty to monitor the work of local self-government authorities, starting with the fact that the largest number of issues that are vital to citizens are resolved in the municipality, so that they can propose solutions for overcoming the perceived problems in the congregations where they are elected, in the republican or federal. In this regard, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union has special regard to the exercise of the rights of citizens relating to the property-legal area, the acquisition of building permits, municipal services, inspection services and others, which are further transferred to the municipal authorities by the proposal of this House, i.e. to local self-government. I would also like to support something, that I have received a reply from the Government that it is known to be regulated by the rules of procedure and other legal acts. I want to underline the following - it would not be excessive for this amendment to be accepted, to enter into the law; for we know well that in the previous Law on the Construction of Objects it is also said that certain provisions can be regulated by legal and other acts. Just about finding a hole in the law, there's a lot left unspeakable and, let's say, there's a non-application of these regulations. I believe that this was a very good initiative from previous authorities, when MPs of individual now ruling parties and then were normally opposition MPs, were very happy to propose this, or all of them participated together in the assembly sessions of the municipality and proved themselves to be good. I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17741	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 62, against 112 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17742	The amendments tend to improve the text of the legal project. Unfortunately, we have here an amendment that is worse than the solutions given in the legal project. This formulation, which is in the legal project, is just optimal, so that the committee cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detention or punishment because of an outcast opinion or voting at the meeting of the Assembly and the working bodies. The amendment says that the committee member cannot be called to account for the opinion he has delivered or the vote he gave at the session of the assembly or its working bodies. A committee member may be called to account. He will be called to the responsibility of his constituents at local communities, citizens' assemblies, myths, etc. He will be called to account by the media, called by his party to account. The result of the call for responsibility by his party may be the exclusion from the party and thus the termination of the parliamentary term. The councilman may be called to account, but he can't be prosecuted (and that's the point), he can't be prosecuted by the court, he can't be prosecuted by a public prosecutor, he can't be prosecuted by a private criminal suit for what he's declared to be a committee duty, so that's an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17743	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, v. 137, abstention 12, did not vote 13, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking this opportunity for a payphone to call on a part of the parliamentary majority to pay attention to this reading, which is the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to which it gives an opinion on the amendments submitted to this bill and which informs us that some amendments have refused and some have received. Why I urge you to pay attention to the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party and which I will try to explain. The amendment proposes that article 38 be extended with another paragraph, which reads: "The mandate of the president of the municipality extends during the war as long as the state of war, or until conditions are created for the election of this function". Government Explanation, i.e. This interesting reading, which I call upon you to pay attention to, says - the amendment is rejected, because it only proposes itself as a new solution, compared to the content of Article 38. The bill, the term of office of the speaker of the assembly during the war, will be governed by special regulations. What special regulations? Such a passage existed in so far's solutions, and this is even possible in the Constitution, and what specific regulations, special normative acts, will the Government propose? Is there a law on the existence of a war? What nonsense. What's really interesting and what do I want you to pay attention to, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority? The essence of the entire amendment is contained in the first sentence, and it differs from the proposed article 38 (which the Government did not pay any attention to, which is not surprising, it is a transparent expert government) and reads, "The municipality has the president of the municipality." What does this amendment mean? Essentially, it means a lot, means that the Serbian Radical Party is insisting in these two or three days in an attempt to explain to you that the president of the municipality needs to extend his powers, give him back those powers that he needs to have. Because he was elected as president by the representative body, elected by the people in the direct elections, by electing a congregation of municipalities in these elections, the committees were elected. The amendment needs to reduce the authority and authority of the president of the municipality that you are introducing. You're bringing something in to the little door. I think most MPs from the parliamentary majority have, as directly as possible, a link to the famous Eighth Session of the Central Committee of Communists' Union. However, what we need is for us to reason that the powers that were needlessly given to the president of the municipality mean the introduction of a presidential system, the creation of something that has so far been made in a democratic society (i.e., the name of the Serbian people, that democratic society) did not exist. I understand that you want to re-introduce a cult of leaders, that that's what you grew up from, from communist slippers, but the people did not vote on these changes, which you so transparently explain and in the first next election you will go through.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17745	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 116 abstentions, 19 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to the SRS parliamentary group reads: "The assembly of the municipality has a vice president who replaces the president in case the president is absent or prevented from performing his post. The vice president of the municipality's assembly is elected and resolved in the same way as the president." In response to which the amendment was rejected, the government said the term for the deputy president was more adequate. Well, may he be the vice president, as far as I'm concerned, he may also be called an unterbigermeister, but he's the essence of the choice and resolution of the vice president of the municipal assembly. So, is he going to be called vice president or vice president, or is he going to be texting or whatever you want, it doesn't matter. It's about the way he chooses and solves himself. No, I can tell you a song. [[GROANING]] I'd write you a nice song, but some tiredness came at me like I was sitting in these 20-tonne coal benches. As far as self-government is concerned, Minister Batic is reporting -- the council will take pictures, and the president himself will manage. And it's pretty much all right, because the president will have the right to manage himself, to decide for himself, and it's called self-government. With this law, the minister of justice passes, as the golden wire inherits fellow communists and the advice of local communities. The way I see it, from the position of the radicals -- there was a meat contribution and a third international. And as I see this law from the position of a songmaker, that our friend Edward Cardell and his friend Peppa live.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17747	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, no abstentions against 115, 21 of the 190 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to a 40th member of the assembly's secretary's office. Article 40 is amended as follows: "The Assembly of the Municipality has a secretary who tends to carry out professional tasks in connection with calling and holding meetings of the Assembly and performs other tasks established by the Statute and other acts of the municipality. "The secretary of the municipality's assembly is also the secretary of the municipal administration, in accordance with this law. The secretary shall be appointed, on a proposal from the President of the Assembly, to four years, i.e. until the term of office of the Assembly of the Municipality and may be re-established. For the Secretary of the Assembly of the Municipality may be appointed a person who has completed a law school, passed a professional exam for work in the authorities of the state administration and at least six years of work experience. The Secretary of the Assembly shall cease the term of office before the expiry of the period set by the discharge, by disbanding the Assembly of the Municipality, on a personal request or if it fulfils the conditions for the exercise of the right of retirement laid down by law. When the secretary of the assembly ceases his term of office because of the end of the congregation’s term of office, or because of its disbandment, he continues to carry out the duties of the secretary of the municipal administration until the appointment of a new secretary of the congregation. The Secretary of the Assembly may also be dismissed before the expiry of the time on which he is appointed, on a reasoned proposal from the President of the Municipality, from at least one third of the committees or executive board. The explanation - Secretary of the Assembly of the Municipality cannot be reduced to an ordinary official who performs only professional tasks in connection with the convocation and maintenance of the assembly sessions of the municipality. Its powers and powers in the bill are assumed by the president of the municipality as a special body of the municipality, which is unacceptable for us, because it is intruding in the constitutionally regulated division of power. That's why I suggest you accept this amendment. But before I finish, I'm going to step away from it, because we heard from the discussion in the principle that many mayors and presidents of the municipalities appeared, and first, Mr. Bora Novakovic, who, in his own style, wanted to show his size and power, and through his discussion, you could see how the president of the municipalities would behave. So when we go out for this pay phone and tell the truth, when we talk transparently about the government and its ministers, we shouldn't get any warning, because this is the only place and the only way to discuss their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17749	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Please, the word is Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17750	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of Serbian MP Zivanovic is to be accepted because it corrects the right direction of legal nebulos from a member of the 40th legislative project. If you look at article 40, you'll see that the Secretary of the Assembly's role is so minor that it's pointless to even mention it in law. It's a purely technical person, who prints addresses on envelopes, multiples calls, probably takes the basic data from the board to give them parliamentary IDs, and so on. No serious intelligence has been given to the Secretary of the Assembly, and you have dedicated the entire member of the law to that function. Instead of providing for the functioning of institutions and for all institutions within the political system to function in an identical way, thus not denying democratic rights to citizens, committees and MPs, but aligning themselves with the principles of the political system, you leave the issue to the municipal self-initiative since the adoption of the statutes. And here, when it comes to an extremely declassified, pointless function, you dedicate an entire legal member to it. The Secretary of the Assembly as a functionary does not make any sense, just as it was designed by this legal project. What the congregation of the municipality would especially ask for, when it can be any municipal official, is not even required for such a function, nor is it a professional provision. In parallel with this function, you have introduced the function of the head of the municipal administration, which is also very bad, because this principal function is too many attributes of the government. And in this case, it is a man who is strictly subject to the president of the municipality, that is, the mayor, rather than retaining a solution so far in which the Secretary of the Assembly was the highest official of the municipal administration. He had to be a graduate lawyer with a professional exam. He was the balance of both the executive board and the president of the municipality's assembly. A body that would now, under its administrative authority, be a balance to the president of the municipality's parliament simply does not exist. There is no municipal body qualified with adequate expertise to keep an account, control strict respect for constitutionality and legality. The secretary of the municipality's assembly has, according to official duty, kept strict account of the legality of municipal acts, both general and individual. The municipality could not issue any acts, neither general nor individual, until the act was passed through the hands of the secretary of the assembly of the municipality. Now whoever is responsible for the expertise and legality of municipal acts as an organ simply doesn't exist. The president of the municipality, or mayor, cannot answer for his expertise. The head of the municipal administration is completely subordinated to him, so neither he nor he can answer for anything, a politician above him. There is no official of the administration who will be responsible for strict respect for constitutionality and legality and provide it with its expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17751	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments to Article 40 to the vote. For 54, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17752	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 40. The proposal for a law on local self-government just proves that our claim that this bill is full of hollows, so that those who want to find holes in the law, in the future, unless these amendment improvements of this law are adopted, there won't be much trouble finding those holes in the law. Namely, since a member of the 40th is trying to regulate the status of the secretary of the municipal assembly, nowhere in article 40, and this is well noted by counterpart Canovic of the SSJ party, they do not determine the conditions for one who could possibly be the holder of the office of the municipality's secretary. I would remind you that in the earlier Law on Local Self-Government, this was clearly defined, although there were some examples in practice (especially after 1996 and coming to power in many municipalities in Serbia, when the municipalities of the municipalities under the rule of the Coalition "Together") were established that these provisions on conditions prescribed for the secretaries of the municipalities were not respected. One of those examples was in Pirot. So, counterpart Canovic well noted that Article 40, as well as the whole law, was incomplete, so he suggested adding a new position 3. so that a person with completed law school and a professional exam for work in the authorities of the municipality could be appointed for the secretary of the assembly of three years. With the conclusion that this proposal is fine, our humble opinion is that, given the state that can be found, especially in small municipalities, a small number of people may have these conditions, so, according to our amendment, a person who has a legal or other college of social sciences can be elected or appointed as a secretary of the assembly can be tested for work in the authorities of the state administration, and at least five years of work experience in the profession. As you can see, the difference between our amendment and the one submitted by Mr. Canovic, who was adopted by the Government, is that it is proposed that a secretary can be appointed and a man who has completed any college of social science, but there is also a more restrictive condition - that this man must have at least five years of working experience in the profession. Therefore, the essence of our amendment is to ensure the expertise of those who are the holder of the office of the Secretary of the Assembly, so that things do not happen in practice, which could make the work of local self-government more difficult, given all the authority and all the authority that the Secretary of the Assembly has under the position of Article 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17753	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments to Article 40 to the vote. For 53, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 27, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Novica Djuraskovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular). National MP Zlatan Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter 3.1.2. be changed above Article 42. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17754	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a key amendment to this bill. In this amendment, the SRS retains a solution from the existing law on local self-government. In other words, this amendment deletes the term "Principal Chairman", and introduces the term "Executive Committee". In order for this to be explained and closer to the citizens of Serbia, I must point out, and it has already been said several times in the debate, that this bill introduces the office of the president of the municipality, which will be the executive body. The existing law presupposes the Executive Board as the executive body of one assembly of the municipality, i.e. local self-government. To better understand and accept this, from this explanation of the bill, I will quote the powers set out in this proposal, i.e. to give the president of the municipality: "Instead of the complex and inefficient assembly system of government, it is proposed to introduce a specific system of division between the assembly, as a representative body and the president of the municipality, as the holder of the executive authority. Starting with the principle of power-sharing, it is proposed that the president of the municipality should not be a council member and that it be elected directly by a secret vote. The President of the Municipality shall represent and represent the municipality, directly execute and take care to implement decisions and other acts of the Assembly of the Municipality, propose decisions and other acts taken by the Assembly, direct and coordinate the work of the municipal administration and supervise its work, appoint and resolve the head of the municipal administration and perform other tasks established by the Statute and other acts of the municipality. It is of particular importance that the President of the Municipality state within 30 days of the date of the adoption of the General Act on its contrary to the Constitution, the Law and the Statute. The president of the municipality may be called off before the term of office, and the motion for impeachment shall be submitted by at least 10% of the electoral body, the assembly of the municipality, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia." From all this I've read, this proposal assumes that the president of a superman's municipality, who will be capable, expert in all areas of public life, will be able to implement all decisions of the municipality in practice. The question here has been answered by the president of the municipality. The bill states that its resolution is possible before the end of the term of office, but on the proposal 10% of the electoral body of the assembly, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When this initiative is launched, the decision of the president of the municipality is possible through the will of the voters. So, elections are being discussed that will change the situation, which will be called off by the president of the municipality. It's simply impossible in these conditions... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Mrs. Komic, I quoted for a minute and a half, so that time cannot enter in these three minutes. So it's just amazing to have the president of the municipality replaced in this way, because that shift has to be verified by voters, or called off by voters in free elections. On the other hand, in one situation where we will have different authorities at the local level, there will be a situation that we will have very frequent elections, and this, ultimately, has not been precisely defined by this law. So we're going to have a situation that we're going to have to make local elections very often to recall the president of the municipality, because probably because of the different political options of the president of the municipality and the majority of the municipality, we're going to come very often to the situation that we have an initiative to replace the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17755	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17756	Interestingly, the government of the Republic of Serbia rejects almost all amendments to members of opposition parties. The formulation is repeated almost literally from amendments to amendments. "Amendment is rejected because it proposes to retain a solution from the existing Law on Local Self-Government." It's an argument from the government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the government has no arguments, so ideologically disqualifies the motionor and the amendment. Something's wrong because it's been taken over by the law so far. Nothing was right before you, and from you everything was fine. This logic is Bolshevik by nature, completely Bolshevik. But it doesn't matter. It's important to discuss one of the most important issues here. You know, we are not trying because of you to submit this number of amendments to all legal projects, but because of the Serbian public who is following it and who is observing your political behaviour. This raises the question of what is more democratically meaningful when it comes to the highest authorities of the administrative authority - should this body be incoherent or collegiate? The political theory of democratic orientation has long cleared up the issue. Officially, in principle, the executive-government authority mostly stands for an in-house body. But almost all modern democracies make sure that his powers, his responsibilities, are purely symbolic (as the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Serbia - purely symbolic). And the actual highest authority of the administrative authority is a regular collegiate body. The government is a collegiate body. The government is the government's authority over the ministers. The Prime Minister is only the first among the equals. All ministers are incoherent bodies, but there is a body that unites their work, and that body is collegiate in order to maintain the basic democratic principle. The principle must be implemented through the overall structure of the political system in one country: from the federal level, the level of the federal unit, the level of autonomy or the region, if ever existed, to the level of local self-government. There can't be one solution on one level, and on the other level, it's the opposite. Such a political system is a mess. Such a legal order can hardly work. The principle that exists at the state summit must be implemented to the lowest authority of the government. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) The lowest authority of government, and the authority of local self - government, is in our system a municipality. The structure of the authorities in the municipality must therefore remind the structure of the government in the Republic of Serbia, with the exception of a judicial authority that must exclusively be tied to the state, and that of the highest state level. (President: Four minutes. ) The Republic is defined as a state. Therefore, it must not relate to regions or autonomy, let alone local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17757	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment of MP Zlatan Jovanovic to the vote. For 47, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 31, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic and MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the essence of the application of this law can be painted first in article 42, which speaks of the president of the municipality. I think those who wanted to make a law show some kind of novelty actually led to a total confusion, and if this law is applied, there will be an absolute chaos in local self-government. Here are the terms of strong people, strong personalities, political favourites, who will have their intuition and strength to bear the development of the municipality, etc. What is definitely going to happen in practice is this: we will have, on the one hand, the President of the Assembly, the entire municipal administration, secretaries and deputies; on the other hand, the president of the municipality with all powers and the desire that, in a certain way, with his manager and head of certain issues, lead the municipality as he thinks. We will also have committees who were also elected by the people, and one committee will lead their parties to the president of the assembly, the other by the president of the municipality - each will have its favorite. Then you won't know who's drinking, who's working, who's ruling in the community. They're definitely facts, and that's how it's gonna be. We think that these are the solutions, which you have accepted; you have ruled and ruled in 74 municipalities, and you haven't protested much about this model and the way the local self-government function -- that the assembly has the president of the municipality, that the representative system, that we have a decision-making assembly -- which has functioned in a sufficiently specific way with the existence of the executive board. Many of the results of work in municipal administrations, in serious people, where there was tolerance in relations and where they understood the opposite side of the existence of the opposition, where there was also some cooperation in function, where MPs could participate in the work of SO. With these executed direct elections, where citizens will be elected by the president of the municipality, no one will be able to replace it, because the definitive fact is that 100,000 voters have enough 15 thousand votes to elect the president of the municipality, but to change it, you will need at least 30 to 40,000 votes. These are evidence facts, because the vote will take place between four and ten candidates, and you will have to vote yes and against at the request of the shift, and if 60% of voters come out, you need at least 30 to 32 000 voters to replace such a president of the municipality....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17759	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17760	We cannot aim at his inadequacy, but at the congregation and in the congregation for what he does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17761	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17762	Fellow Members, the proposal by counterpart Dragan Tomic is based on our concept of local self-government and place, the roles and powers that the Executive Board would have in such a concept. We have suggested that this member of the bill be deleted for several reasons. In addition to what counterpart Tomic mentioned, I think it should be mentioned that this way of electing the president of the municipality as an executive body is not in agreement with the provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. I will, in order to confirm these words, quote Article 3. The Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in 1985, where it says: "This right of local authorities will be exercised through a council or a assembly composed of members elected in the free elections, a secret vote, on the basis of direct voting rights, which the councils or congregations may have with the executive bodies responsible for them." This executive body will not be responsible to anyone, nor will it be responsible to the citizens who choose it. In this way, with the president of the municipality as the executive bodies of local self-government, there is also a full marginalisation of SO, and hence the citizens. Their right or ability to participate in the affairs of local self-government will virtually come to the very act of voting and then their relationship with local self-government or with the president of the municipality will simply not exist. For the reasons of all those affairs that the president of the municipality has and which are established in the next member of the law, I must say that in this way one, I say, will be carried out with the president of the municipality by the feudalization of the state. In fact, if we leave aside municipalities and cities in Kosovo and Metohija, of 189 towns and municipalities in Serbia, we see how this system will apply: we will have one practical consequence, we will get 160 feudal people who will be god and beating in that area and will certainly depend on the influence of the political party they represent and the interest groups they represent. The possibility of their influence will be unlimited, and the possibility of their control will not exist. For this reason, we believe that this solution should not exist, i.e. the amendment of Dragan Tomic should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17763	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 28, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17764	Article 42. The bill looks like this: "The executive function in the municipality is done by the president of the municipality. The president of the municipality is elected on time of four years, by direct and secret vote. The choice and termination of the term of office of the president of the municipality before the end of the time he was elected shall be governed by law. The president of the municipality cannot be a council member of the municipality. The president of the municipality has a deputy who replaces him in the event of his absence and prevents him from performing his duty. The president of the municipality appoints and resolves the deputy with the consent of the assembly of the municipality." The SRS Group proposes that Article 42 be amended and read as follows: "The Executive Board: 1) executes the decisions and other acts of the Assembly of the Municipality, namely to take care of their execution; 2) decides on certain issues referred to in Article 32 point 13k of this Act, for which the Assembly of the Municipality of the Authority; (3) proposes a way of resolving certain issues decided by the So, as well as acts taken by the Assembly; (4) shall supervise the work of the municipal administration and repeal or abolish the acts of the municipal administration which are not in agreement with the law, statute, or municipal decision; 5) in the case of a war situation, adopt acts under the jurisdiction of the SO, by means of which it is obliged to submit to the approval of SO as soon as it is able to meet; 6) when the Assembly does not occupy, on a proposal by the President of the Assembly of the Assembly, appoints and resolves and resolves the Assembly of the Assembly, and the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the General, the General, the Assembly, the General, the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Court of the General of the General of the General of the Generals, the General of the General of the Generals, the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Generals of the Generals of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Generals of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Council of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Generals of the Council of the Council of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Generals of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the This area needs to be resolved in this way, in order to meet the basic principles of the division of power into executive and legislative. The government must be separated so that it can be controlled. I thought the Minister of Local Self-Government was in the O.R., so I wanted to ask him when he would be appointed Chief of the Pcinian Occupy. This is the duty of a volunteer president of his party, and we know by law that the district chief can't be a volunteer. How many positive laws are violated that he performs the duty of volunteering, and it is known that the person appointed by the Government cannot be a volunteer. It's been working for a year on the general dissatisfaction of the citizens of the Pcinj County.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17765	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17766	The amendment of MP Slobodan Janjic once again points to this problem that you yourself have produced by introducing the president and that of that rigid, clean presidential system at the local level. The views on this matter tell us the historical experience. Such a system of authorities existed during the period of absolute monarchy in Europe. In a clean presidential system, one individual is unable to bear on his shoulders such a burden of executive-government authority and around him by force of opportunity, in the absence of an institution of the municipal government that would bear this great burden, a camel, a court or a presidential chamber, people who would have growing extra-institutional power, people who would sit in the office of the president of the municipality, although there will be no formal cabinet members. The more people in the community's environment are more rude, bolder and unsuspecting, the more concrete, practical, real government in the community, the more they will ask themselves about certain things. Second, in the current system, the municipality's secretary, as head of the municipality's administration, was controlled both by the municipality's assembly and by the municipal government. Now the congregation of the municipality cannot control it on any basis, or chief, as it is now called, and that is what was formerly the secretary of the municipality. The question is, how much can the president of the municipality control him as an individual? Imagine the situation of selecting a prominent person, a doctor, a teacher, a fireman, a shoemaker and a farmer for the president of a municipality, or a mayor in a municipality. A man who's respected, who's won a huge reputation by doing his own job, but not a lawyer, is not worthy of political trade, wins the election because citizens love him. He'll just figure out what to do, and he won't want to get involved in his business. There's no municipal government. Who's gonna do the job? Bureaucracies. You use this legal solution to open the door to a wide breach of bureaucracy. Imagine that all Serbian government ministers are unprofessional for the work they do, who would lead the main word? Secretary-General of the Government, Deputy Secretary-General of the Government, visprene, capable, protruding, and if he's unscrupulous, he can do a miracle. Such a situation can happen in the ministries as well. The government is a collective organ, so somehow it can mate. Who at the municipal level to whom to mate, if there is no one municipal government as a collegiate body in which people of different professions will gather, each expert in his profession, each able to think with his own head and influence the opinion of his colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17767	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17768	Who will criticise the head of the administration's municipality, who will comment on his work, if the president of the municipality is unable to do so for several reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17769	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17770	The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been practically taking place here for several days on a central issue: the direct election of the president of the municipality, or the mayor, as well as the alleged red tape of such a function, turning back, possible abuses and all that has been heard in the debate, that I do not repeat. What is the essence of this change and these changes in relation to the practice so far? It was simply going through further affirmation of decentralisation and further affirmation of division of power. This time, on the subject of changes at local level, I can understand the commentation of individual MPs after the past times, during the time when they exercised power and when executive committees in the municipalities were precisely the measure of their exercise of power. I can also understand that different levels of government may need to contain identical principles regarding selecting appropriate personalities. Well, gentlemen, you two changed the federal constitution two years ago and decided that the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was elected by direct vote and of course you were defeated, and since you learned a lesson, you would now not change that at local level. Here's a good example of how choices are equalized at different levels of government. But it's not the point of this, it's the point of dividing not the authorities, it's the division of responsibilities. The executive boards clouded things. It was a chance to hunt in a blur, no one knew who was drinking or paying, no one knew who was responsible. The division of the government is now being divided to the extent that it will be clearly defined; clearly defined are the powers of the assembly as a representative body, it is a collective body that makes appropriate acts and appropriate general, we can say conditionally, political decisions. On the other hand, the role of executive authority belongs to the mayor, belongs to the president of the municipality and will be responsible for the execution and implementation of decisions of the representative body, including the assembly of the municipality. We have accepted amendments, and those previously invested, and these are now being invested, which are going in the direction of correction, in the direction of one control-control correction of the authority of the president of the municipality, and we will accept those amendments that limit those powers in the second degree in the administrative procedure, i.e. on administrative supervision, regardless of what the control body will be called, whether the municipal council, the collegiate council, the municipal council, will be subject to a legal and technical review of this text. The abuse story also makes no sense; where there was no idea who was responsible, there were the most abuses. Here, the executive authority will have the name and last name and the president of the municipality, or the mayor will be directly responsible for everything. There were also questions about where the top-up existed, which models were used. There is such a practice in developed Western European countries, for example in Great Britain, in the Federal Republic of Germany, but there is, for example, in Romania, and Macedonia. It means one idea that has been widely accepted in Europe. Finally, there were questions as to whether one man could perform such a responsible function in some large municipalities, or cities. The answer, of course, is yes. The illustrations work, Jacques Chirac was the mayor of Paris, and Rudolph Giuliani is the mayor of New York and were very successful in doing that duty. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17771	No basis for replication, no offensive expression, no misread. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't allow replicas, I don't think there's any basis for replication. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yes, MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17772	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to say on behalf of the amendment of the SRS MPs that the SPS Group supports the amendment. What's this about? Local self-government means, in the right sense, self-government, which means that citizens in the territory of local self-government are directly elected by a direct vote by local self-government. The elected committees, a group of people, the assembly of the municipality has so far had the right to elect a group of people, an executive committee to work a series of responsible and creative affairs in local self-government, on a proposal from the president of the municipality or the president of the executive government, or a majority political influence. This proposal, which is given through the law, means that once a elected citizen by direct selection, which is true, is himself for so much work that the fact that the president of the Assembly and the Assembly themselves become one of the most common icebans and a group of flower pots and decorations for local self-government. I'd like the minister and Mr. Seselj to let me speak at the pay phone. It'd be my turn. I know you're working very well, but you're doing it outside this room. They're accusing me of that co-operation, too, but it doesn't matter. Article 43 should be read. The president of the municipality represents and represents the municipality, directly executes and looks after the execution of decisions and other acts of the Assembly, but proposes decisions and other acts taken by the Assembly, as well as the way in which the issues decided by the assembly. So he suggests himself, suggests a way to solve and execute what they've done on their own. The old woman is working on the exercise of entrusted tasks under the rule of law and duty of the Republic, directing and coordinating the work of the municipal administration, resolving the administrative procedure in the second degree on the rights and responsibilities of citizens, overseeing the work of the municipal administration, repealing or repealing the acts of the municipality, setting up and resolving the head of the municipal administration and electing his own deputies. The commanding officer is in favour of budgeting, and he himself proposes budgeting, bringing in individual acts, doing other jobs, etc. Simply, this concept, which was essentially proposed, abolishes local self-government, because one man, though really directly elected in the elections, has been doing all the jobs in the community congregation for four years. He's a god and a pasture in his pastry. In fact, it is immeasurable, because in Belgrade alone, 140,000 signatures are needed to launch an initiative for his shift. Is it not a more logical solution to the congregation, for example? in Belgrade, out of 110 council members elected by citizens, the operational body of 5, 10, 15 people, who are the executive board and who can individually replace whoever they want, if it does not work properly. Isn't that the right local self-government, where, directly through the board of citizens, in accordance with political influences, they actually control the government. Here, in this way, where a man for four years absolutely rules a certain territory of Serbia, it is part of a return to feudal times.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17773	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The representative of the amendments is MP Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17774	Dear People's MPs, what is important for the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is that the executive functions that belonged to the president of the municipality have now been transformed in a certain way, i.e. in a significant way. He can perform his post through the municipal council, which is under the control and supervision of the municipality, which was the essence of our initiative. I am pleased that the parliamentary club Democratic Party of Serbia - the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MP club of DOS, or the Democratic Party, reached that agreement and in this context we are withdrawing this amendment to Article 42.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17775	I find that the amendment to Article 42, which was submitted by a group of MPs, has been withdrawn. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger is Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17776	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I don't know if it makes any sense for me to explain this amendment after some amendments have been adopted regarding the collectiveisation of the executive government in the municipality. For me, what has been adopted here today in terms of changing the position of mayor, or executive authority, is not acceptable. I have suggested in my amendment that the municipality may have a president, with this one able to have more of its deputies, one or more. This, of course, depends on the size of the municipality and the work the mayor is doing. I'm a little surprised by today's discussions, this is about some collective executive body in the municipality, but I haven't heard one example, not one country west of Belgrade where there's a collective executive body in the form that's been discussed here today. I've never heard of an executive council, the mayor's college, etc. And that's why I suggested that the mayor have his deputies if it's a large municipality, as is the usual practice in all the major cities in the world. In fact, the difference between an in-coherent executive and a college executive is that the mayor has responsibilities, not rights as a pasha, as is said here, but it's a huge responsibility and he, if he wants those responsibilities or part of that responsibility to pass on to some of his deputies, which is practice in the world, then he can do it. That's why I've made a proposal that the president of the municipality may have one or more deputies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17777	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17778	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one is taking away the president of the municipality's right to do so. On the contrary, it is very clear in the proposal for a law that we are discussing at the initiative of the president of the municipality of the municipality of the selecting of his deputy, who, as we wish, must have a place in the control-control body, no executive body, and we suggest that it be a municipal or city council that would practically be a link between the mayor and the assembly that has the council. At this moment, it is not realistic to transfer so much power to the mayor, while at the same time denying the ability to control and control, because on the contrary, by transforming Serbia, we insist on the public in the work and on full control. It would be illogical to ask the DOS parliamentary group to distance itself from the idea of controlling a man who in the direct elections gets such an important function as the president of the municipality, or mayor. It is a very important role for one man and we believe that he can answer that effectively, but we also think that he would be well devalued if his control mechanisms were not discreetly determined. It would be a person who would have to respond to unargued criticism on a daily basis, would be exposed to skeptics and would practically not be a man who could fully commit himself to his work. In this way, the mayor is a person who is protected by a collectively supervised body, who is elected by the congregation and who thus assumes the role of oversight and control of the mayor’s work. In such a way, she does all the work that the mayor himself does not have to carry out and thus shares the responsibility. Responsibility is something we need, and we insist on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17779	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Istvan Ispanovich, with a political and theoretical and legal basis, is meaningless to the same extent as the article of the 42nd law to which it applies. How is it possible for the president of the municipality to appoint himself a deputy, even if there is a need for agreement of the congregation of the municipality? Imagine the President of the Republic who appointed himself a deputy. If the President of the Republic can't appoint himself a deputy, then by the same logic, it can't even be a congregation of municipalities. If the president of the municipality is elected directly by a secret vote, then, by nature of things, his deputy must be chosen in the same way. Well, as in the US presidential election, both the president and the vice president are voted on at the same time. That makes sense. Or, in the event that the mayor is prevented, the municipal assembly shall appoint an acting official until new elections - that is possible. This variant is not legally possible and it is politically undemocratic. On what Minister Batic was just saying, he pointed out in a proper way to the analogy with changes to the federal constitution two years ago, but he misread it. When the Federal Constitution was amended, the powers of the President of the Republic were not increased. He didn't get any new jurisdiction, although there were some ideas - to win. Serbian radicals were categorically against increasing jurisdiction. Only in one thing has the federal constitution changed on the matter of the president, which goes to direct elections through a secret vote. The motive was for a single bar, Serbia-Montenegro, to be a single electoral unit, in principle one man is one vote, because it is extremely unfair for Serbia, which is 17 times larger than Montenegro, to elect the same number of MPs for the Greater Republic as Montenegro itself. It was applied here, for the first time in the entire territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the principle - one man one vote. That is the value of this constitutional change. However, something else is important that should be applied here as analoguely: the federal president can replace the federal parliament with a two-thirds majority vote, so if you want that analogy then the president of the municipality should be able to replace the municipality's parliament with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all the council members. What legal nebulises are you entering the best shows the power of comparison of Article 45 with Article 113, and this is very important for this Article 42, which we are now considering the president of the Assembly of the Municipality. The government of the Republic of Serbia can disband the assembly of municipalities under certain conditions and within three months, the president of the National Assembly is calling new elections, and the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot replace the president of the municipality and call new elections. By the nature of things, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest authority of the executive authority, should we leave aside the formal highest authority - president of the Republic, should be able to replace the president of the municipality as the highest holder of the executive authority in the municipality without even touching the municipality. Because the congregation of the municipality, by analogy, is a legislative body. But you've got it all figured out. The government can disband the municipality's body, so the state administration can disband the legislative body, and it cannot replace the president of the municipality. The initiative should go to the citizens for a referendum. This is amazing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17781	Right on the line, MP Istvan Ispanovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17782	If Mr. Prof. Vojislav Seselj considers my proposal to be a nebulosis, since he is a great expert in the political system, I accept that. However, I have spoken to a large number of mayors in Western Europe, so I know the system that works there, the truth I wasn't in Iraq and I don't know what the system is, he probably knows it better.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17783	The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17784	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment shows how inappropriate a settlement with the president of the municipality is. You see, there are three cases where an emergency administration is introduced into the municipalities: the first is when no statutes are adopted, the second when the assembly of the municipality is not occupied for more than three months, and the third, perhaps often the most crucial, when no budget is adopted. According to our proposal, that there is an executive committee, since it is 10 - 20 professional people, where everyone is doing competences in his field, there is no way that no budget can be proposed to the city’s congregation or the municipality, and there is no factual reason for the introduction of a forced administration. Mr. Ispanovich's proposal is actually trying to reconcile the situation and he is proposing the post of deputy president of the assembly, because if the president of the municipality gets sick - who will propose the budget? For example, when it comes to Priboj, out of 41 DOS councilmen he was 11, and in the re-election DOS he received only three votes, and now we hear that they want to introduce an emergency administration, as a reason... Introduced already? There you go. Maybe you're actually doing this so you can introduce forced administrations, because there won't be budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-11-0.u17785	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For four, against 166 abstentions, he did not vote 21, of the 191 present MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we would do today's work. I would like to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held after the meeting of the National Assembly in the downstairs hall. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session, and please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragisa Binić, Radmilo Misović, Stevan Lilic, Slobodan Radulović, Branko Besevic, Milos Radivojčević and Zaharija Trnavcevic; in the morning Nenad Lemajic and Srdjan Sikimić; in the afternoon Bojan Kostreš. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnap and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the OSCE, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (single) Has the word National MP Zoran Ćirković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
