ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the president of the National Assembly made a mistake and brought us back to vote again on the amendments that have already been voted on, I ask that we now vote again to cancel this in both the stenogram and the minutes of the session, that it does not really turn out to be a completely unserious National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now with one act, which would be a vote, let's cancel this vote either these two or three acceptances and votes that we had, even though these are the points that we discussed yesterday morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17941	Mr. Nikolic, I don't think there's any breach of the Rules of Procedure. On amendments to Articles 42 and 45, we voted on the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you're not satisfied with the answer, I can put it to a vote. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 113, there are no abstentions, no vote seven, a total of 165. I find that no amendment to Article 59 has been accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote 12, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word is submitted to the amendment by Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, position 1 in Article 61 of the current Bill on Local Self-Government: "The President of the Municipality resolves the conflict of jurisdiction between municipal administrations and other enterprises, organisations and institutions when, on the basis of the decision of the Assembly of the Municipality, they decide on individual rights of citizens, legal persons or other parties, as well as between municipal administrations for certain areas. "The Serbian Unity Party's MP group believes that the attitude of the 1st member should be deleted, since in our opinion the resolution of such conflicts of jurisdiction still exceeds the individual's opportunities, regardless of his expertise, knowledge and experience. That is why we believe that in resolving such disputes, the court should still be arbitration, not the president of the municipality. For this reason, we suggest that the attitude of the 1st member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17943	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote 14, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17944	Dear Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government and proposed to delete the position quoted by Dr Canovic: "The President of the Municipality solves the conflict of jurisdiction between municipal administrations and other enterprises, organisations and institutions when, on the basis of the decision of the Assembly, they decide on individual rights of citizens, legal persons or other parties, as well as between municipal administrations for certain areas." After the amendments that followed by the Committee, I saw that our amendment was mostly regulated by that part, given that individuals, at this moment the president of the municipality, were deprived of that possibility and given to the collective executive body. I am surprised that in Article 63, which I also submitted the amendment to, the president of the municipality decides on the exemption of the mayor of the municipal administration, which in this case excludes each other. It is also interesting that all three opposition parliamentary groups have submitted to delete this amendment member. This member is very important in the ultimate instance for the exercise of the rights of citizens, legal persons and other parties, and everything looks to me like that people's -- cadija and sue, cadija judges you, since the president of the municipality that directs the work of the municipal administration as an in-coherent authority in the second-degree procedure solves the same at the request of the party. This provision also means the degradation of the function and personality of the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor; let us take only in implementing a decision on the holding of animals, or a decision on the maintenance of local roads, so that I do not continue to list, where very often they will have to decide, and it will be valid - complains to the president of the municipality, not the management of the plumbing. It will often be mentioned by the parties, and there will be no mention of members of his family. In order to shorten the time to explain the specific examples I have prepared from the period when I, as the chairman of the Executive Board, have handled the same in a second-degree procedure, I will not state them. The government's explanation that the municipality's executive body has so far resolved the conflict of jurisdiction does not stand, since the Executive Board for its work corresponds to the municipal assembly, to which it is responsible for its work by the president of the municipality. In the final instance, the conflict of jurisdiction between the municipal administration and the parties will be resolved by administrative disputes with the competent court, so where is the shame that the president of the municipality loses his disputes in court? The amendments in the second position of this member suggest that the secretary of the municipal assembly resolve the conflict of jurisdiction between internal, organisational units, which is in line with the amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to Article 51 and refers to the retention of the concept that the municipal administration, as a single service, is managed by the secretary of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17945	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, also spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to this member of the law. It was the amendment of MP Alexander Vukic, but I did not go out to explain the amendment because this member of the amendment of the Justice Committee has been amended, so it turns out that I should explain something that we propose to change and that no longer exists in this bill. But the Justice Committee has made its amendments such an entanglement that it is really hard to cope with everything, especially when we adopt some amendments the day since the debate on these members of the bill, or on these amendments, has already passed. Here's the thing. Article 61. The bill provided for the president of the municipality to resolve the conflict of jurisdiction between the municipal administration and other undertakings, institutions and organisations, or the conflict of jurisdiction between municipal administrations for certain areas. The Justice Committee has given an amendment saying "the president of the municipality" is replacing the words "public council" and now it turns out that the municipal council will solve the conflict of jurisdiction. During the debate on the bill, I heard that the municipal council would be the authority that controls the president of the municipality - as explained by the amendment's promoter. However, when you look at now all the amendments of the Committee on Justice (please read something) you will first find that the meetings of the municipal council are led by the president of the municipality; secondly, that his deputy is a member of the municipal council, and it will turn out to be just another additional body commanded by the president of the municipality, behind whom he will be able to stand to make a few decisions and conceal it, so that the people do not call him just for everything that is going on in the municipality. How much more of these amendments are we going to get and how you're going to wrap it in shape to adopt them a day or two after they've given us -- still remains to be seen, but the law seems less and less like one serious law on local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17947	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 107, the abstentions were not voted 18, of the 175-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you go. He has the word Peter Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17948	In Article 61. The bill sets out how to resolve the conflict of jurisdiction. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has given the amendment in this regard. However, the amendment of the Justice and Administration Committee, as of February 12th, accepted the amendment by the Democratic Party of Serbia as a whole. The only difference is that we suggested that this executive body be called advice, and we accepted another terminology, so it's defined as - municipalally larger. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, we are giving up this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17949	Thank you. I find the amendment of a group of MPs to article 61 has been withdrawn. Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 108, against 43, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 173 international MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, tabled an amendment to Article 63, which reads: "The exemption of the mayor of the municipal administration, i.e. the head of the administration of certain areas, is resolved by the president of the municipality. An exemption from an official in the municipal administration is being resolved by the Chief. "I have submitted an amendment that reads: "As regards the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employees of the municipal administration, the provisions of the law and other rules on employees of the state authorities apply. The names and interests of the employees and the conditions for their acquisition, paying groups and wage-setting coefficients, the classification of the calling and occupations within established paying groups, as well as the deployment of employees and appointed persons, shall be determined by an act on the municipal administration, in accordance with the regulations applicable to the employees of the state authorities. "The exemptions are regulated by another act and should regulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the government solving burning issues related to the existence of workers, the launch of the economy, it deals with some marginal issues, which, with the present and reality, have nothing to do with it. In order to discuss local self-government and the creation of decentralised authority i.e. The creation of a centralised municipal government requires that all of the above problems are solved, but this is not the case today. I think the debate on local self-government is pointless and intolerant for now. Another problem is present, as current mayors with their inexperience in managing municipalities will not be able to accept so much responsibility here and tasks to solve problems in local self-government. Since every bill of law for you is reformable, I don't think this bill can function and that it needs to be restored to re-adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen, by studying this proposal for a law on local self-government, whose proposer is Government, I believe it was necessary for this bill to be solved by experts in this area. It is noted that in this proposal for a law on local self-government, some of your proposals have strayed - so the president of the municipality cannot solve such problems, which has no bearing on the presidency. This is all solved by a certain act or regulation. Gentlemen, it turns out that the president of the county is the sheriff who's going to solve all the problems, and this one about the exceptions of individual directors of the department. What if individual chiefs don't like the president, if as an all-powerful man can do anything, so he can step on all the regulations? Also, according to this proposal on the exemption of an official may be resolved by the head of the administration, which is again an abuse of office, as in this exemption it is regulated by a prescribed act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17951	I thank the People's MP. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 18, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovic, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? I find that the representative of the applicants for the amendment withdraws the amendment to Article 63. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17952	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I really urge that the Committee on Justice either amend this member or accept this initiative and amendments, since the amendment has already been made in Article 61, where it has been established that the municipal council, or as you call it, solves the problem of the conflict of jurisdiction in the second instance; and in this case, the President of the municipality continues to decide on the exemption of the Head of Municipal Administration. Members to Article 65 shall be bound by amendments to Articles 42 and 45, so that amendments must be made to this article as well. I think what we've done with the amendments to this law will really be very difficult when it comes to implementation, especially after publication and entry into force, and I don't know, really, when will it come into force, after a regular election? Our concept and to submit an amendment to Article 63 of the Law on Local Self-Government is a logical continuation of the SPS concept of the existence of a collective executive body in the local self-government and secretary of the municipal assembly, as elders of the municipal administration. In this article, our proposal is for the exemption of the Head of Municipal Administration to be decided by the Executive Board, not by the President of the Municipality, as provided for in the Bill. That is why I am not surprised at the government's argument in rejecting this amendment, where the amendment is rejected because it is proposed to retain a solution from the existing Law on Local Self-Government. In my opinion, it's even better to have an existing solution if there's no way out in the new solution. The head of the municipal administration resolved the conflict between the legal service and the chief architect, i.e. the Department of Environmental Protection and issued a construction permit for the city's dump. Under the pressure of the citizens, council members of the municipality are seeking the exemption of the head of the municipal administration for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Who, in that case, issues a building permit, which one is challenged? That citizens will suffer, that ecology will suffer, that is for sure, and that not everyone will be satisfied. And what happens if it's a city cemetery? Not to mention the development of an entrepreneurial initiative, if the disputes as they were due to the issue of a construction permit for the water bottle factory PP "Vujić" Valjevo. Is it normal for individuals who don't change? To add to the soup, we include our multiparty and democracy -- that they are, for example, The head of the municipality and the head of the municipal administration from the opposition party, compared to the majority in the municipality's assembly, so that the stew is even denser than the government in the Republic. Imagine who will and at what time to break this Gordy knot? Probably a new election. And what if the president of the municipality leaves his post and then resigns, who's going to decide? Things are much more serious than this game of yours with this law, where you don't respect the experience of countries that have come a long way in the development of local self-government, where our country has exceptional experience, let alone respect the specificities of the country of Serbia and the Serbian people. In my opinion, it remains only for the local administration and for the head of the municipality to be appointed administrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17953	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 103 abstentions, 19 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has since the beginning of the debate in particular, and you have probably noticed that if you listened and followed the course of the session, in very few amendments to the proposal of this law on local self-government, it has submitted a text in which it is said to be deleted, because these amendments were mostly submitted in situations where we considered the proposed member to be absolutely pointless and that it does not fit in with the concept that the SRS parliamentary group has been advocated since the beginning, which is largely contained in the still existing Law on Local Self-Government. As such, we believe that, with some possible, minimal corrections, only he can, in the right sense, affirm local self-government and provide protection for the citizens of Serbia. Article 64 is one of those on which, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment, where we ask that the member be deleted. For what? Because the member speaks of national mixed municipalities to set up advice on international relations made up of representatives of all national communities. Then, according to the views, it continues to be a condition that needs to be met by percentages of voters on the list from 12 years ago. Article 5 states: "The Council shall inform the assembly of the municipality which is required to declare their views and suggestions." In addition, the Council shall consider issues of protection and improvement of national equality, in accordance with the law and the Statute. This is a clean marketing move by DOS authorities, because of the fact that Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or personal property." To cover claims that the new DOS government, now old, allegedly democratic and thus wants to regulate relations between the majority Serb people and members of other national communities, they want to set up some tips (i.e. you, legislator - Government of the Republic of Serbia and Resolute Minister), and in fact they did not want to say that the citizen is a constitutional category, which I have proved to you to be Article 13. The Constitution, not a member of a national community. Instead of dealing with the original work of local self-government, you've been going through one, now completely confusing and since the beginning of a vague concept of the bill. The question is, what's all this going to come up with? Certainly, like many other citizens, even members of national minorities will have nothing of your concept of local self-government law. That's why this member needs to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17955	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17956	If the Socialists were in something small children for DOS, it's a marketing and a media presentation of the state in a light in which it cannot be introduced. What does Article 64 mean? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 11 to 55, regulates the rights and freedoms of citizens and Article 64. The Law on Local Self-Government would address the issue of mixed municipalities by establishing a council on international relations, toboss, in municipalities where all communities account for more than 10% according to the latest census in Serbia (read - in all municipalities in Serbia). Councils for international relations are being established, and you are even introducing one more institute to re-examine the decision. In addition to the president of the municipality, now the Council for International Relations has the right to return the municipality's assembly to reconsider and decide on a decision concerning an area for which an international relations council has been established. Now I ask you - why not set up advice against poverty; advice against corruption; advice on objective information; advice on preventing the persecution of political opponents; advice on urbanism; why not street washing? Why do they not all have the right to return to the congregation to reconsider a decision that most votes claim to be not in accordance with the Constitution, the law, etc. You know, when Nikola Pasic was in power, whenever he had a problem in the state and when there was an affair, he spoke - form a survey board for them. You could be told - form a council for them; the council in the municipality for international relations will solve all the problems of the Republic of Serbia and there will be no more conflicts between communities, majority with minority, all will function as one. We have a peace council now, you're bringing into legal traffic, as if the state didn't exist before you and as if it wouldn't exist after you. If general policy is not such that all citizens feel that they are citizens of Serbia, if some of you do not have such a policy that it is completely recognizable that you do not count yourself as citizens of Serbia, but are there temporarily or at least in the part of Serbia that you will regulate how you think, then you set up advice for any kind of relationship. (President: Time. ) Simply, these are stories for small children. Some domonia representatives of the council will sit and, of course, will consider what international relations are in the municipality, and whether relations with a community should be improved, whether a community in that municipality is discriminated against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17957	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 103, three abstentions, 47 did not vote, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Živodarka Dacin. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17958	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64, which is practically merely a precision of the members of the law on local self-government and says that in Article 64, paragraph 1 after the word "national" is entered in the words "both ethnic" and in the position of 6 after a "certain circle of issues" the words "referring to the position and rights of national and ethnic communities". Why is this "ethnic"? It is simply because ethnic communities represent a much broader concept that actually covers all minority communities, and even those who do not have their own state, and by national communities we mean, practically, majority communities that are related to the state and as majority exist in another country. You must understand this desire, given that I am an MP who comes from Vojvodina, which is probably the most multi-national environment, where 27 ethnic minorities live, very harmoniously. My sincere desire is to keep it that way in the future. Since the purpose of establishing a council on international relations is precisely to deal with issues in the field of language, culture, religion, information, education, etc., we, as socialists, advocate that there is no such condition as 1%, simply that there is no limit, because you must admit that smaller communities are probably more endangered than larger, i.e. national communities will be able to achieve their rights much easier and in small areas than those who are in a smaller percentage present. It is a desire to respect and to be a state of all citizens, given that it is only a matter of precision of this amendment. I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17959	I thank the People's Parliament. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Please, Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17960	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17961	I thank Mr. Secretary. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 64 by the MP Zivodarka Dacin, since the committees have not declared their acceptance. For 135, against one, the two abstentions, were not voted 38, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17962	They say I'm wasting my time. My time is coming, yours is passing. On behalf of the SPS, I have tried to fix and offer the following argument. It says in a member that the government has proposed: "The forms of direct participation of citizens in achieving local self-government are: citizens' initiative, citizens' assembly and referendum. The forms of direct self-government referred to in Article 1 shall be governed by law and statute." I have proposed such an amendment - Article 66 is amended and it is said: "Citizens who have the right to vote and reside in the territory of the unit of local self-government participate directly in the decision-making of the business of the local self-government unit through a referendum and the achievement of a national initiative in accordance with the law and statutes. The Statute can also establish other forms of direct participation of citizens in decision-making on the work of units of local self-government." I've explained that I think this is more in the spirit of the basic function of local self-government. So there's no party or other competition. This is a sincere desire to repair an existing member who is very important, and given the Corps of Rights that citizens have in the functioning of local self-government in the territory they live in. So I urge you to accept the argument I have offered and adopt the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17963	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 94, the two abstentions, were not voted 39, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 66. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, who submitted the amendment to Article 66.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17964	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the third chapter of this bill, which bears the title - the direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government. It is known that citizens participate in the achievement of local self-government indirectly, means through their representatives, committees who choose in free elections. It is possible, therefore, to directly participate citizens in achieving local self-government. In 66, it provides for three forms of direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government: the citizens' initiative, the citizens' assembly and the referendum. The SRS has submitted an amendment erasing the "citizens' assembly" from this member as one of the forms of direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government. In fact, there are several reasons why we believe that the citizens' assembly should not be one of the forms of direct implementation of local self-government by citizens. I'll only give you two reasons. I think they're enough to accept this. First, the citizens' initiative, as one of the forms of direct delivery of local self-government by citizens, implies the prior maintenance of a certain kind of choir of citizens. So it's an initiative that comes from the citizens themselves and they must first agree and agree to launch and submit the initiative at all. So, when they solve a particular problem, a particular issue that is crucial, that is, important for the citizens of a given space, there must be an initiator, or a group of citizens who will meet and who will meet, who will agree to do so. Well, then by collecting signatures, i.e. in the way that the law intended to submit an initiative to the local self-government unit to exercise these rights and to launch certain decisions that matter to them. Another reason why we believe that the citizens' assembly should not stand in this law is the experience, a practice which has shown in many cases that the citizens' assembly was one great opportunity for manipulation. In practice, it has been very often called upon to be a assembly of citizens selectively, that the citizens' assembly is initiated by the authorities of the municipality or municipal government, to call only similar people, citizens who are similar to that government, and then a group of similar people make certain decisions that will cover in fact certain decisions of the municipal authorities or of someone's personal interests. It is also disputed that this law stipulates that the citizens' assembly also makes decisions for the majority of the votes present. So it's not defined by precise law or how many citizens will be able to make any valid decision at all at the assembly, it's just most of the citizens present. I believe these are sufficient reasons for the Assembly to accept this amendment. It means that the bill deletes the citizens' choir as one of the forms of direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17965	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17966	For several reasons, the SRS has submitted this amendment, envisioning the abolition of one way of direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government - the citizens' choir. It's a practice. Citizens' conferences really cannot bring together any percentage of citizens living in the territory except, of course, political rallys or some other cultural and sports events. Citizens who have some request to the municipal assembly, and the citizens' assembly can only send the municipality a request, never add up a qualified number of people; and even a bill promoter here doesn't determine how much the percentage is, is that one, two, three, five or ten. We have a standard everywhere to decide who is qualified to do a job, and it is said that the citizens' assembly of decisions makes most of the votes of the citizens present. You know how, for example, a choice is being made for the councils of local communities -- that, by the statute of the municipality, is usually done by choirs of citizens. There are 30-40 people gathered and this is the maximum that has participated in the local community council elections so far. It is now the citizens' assembly, although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 116, sees a referendum and representatives of citizens in municipalities elected in direct secret elections as the only two means of participation in the municipality's affairs. There are no choirs of citizens in the Constitution of Serbia, a choir of citizens standing in the heads of some people. There used to be something going on at the citizens' choir, and now there's no more going on. It cannot be ensured at all that this citizens' assembly looks like something, that it represents the number of citizens living in the municipality's territory. That's why we, and in article 66, and later in article 68 where it's a little bit elaborated on how the citizens' assembly will be convened, we're talking about a referendum that would come from a civil initiative, and we're not talking about a choir of citizens. It's a termology that would be introduced by this law. It can be said that there has been so far, but if there is nothing wrong with the old law (and the Prime Minister has always told us not to accept the amendments because they are solutions from the old law), how now can the citizens' assembly go beyond the criteria set by the bill's legislator for new proposals, so that it can extend its duration and from the old Law on Local Self-Government and into the new law on local self-government. The citizens' assembly is really like the home council. It doesn't look anything like it. It doesn't make any decisions. Their decisions don't have to be respected. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17967	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 91, the abstentions were not voted 58, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is the representative of the applicants reporting for a word? Yeah. The People's MP Miomir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17968	Dear Members of Parliament, in the section of the Bill proposal, which reads - Direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government, through amendments to Articles 66, 67, 68, 69 and 70 tried to correct and specify the Government's proposal, as regards the direct citizens' initiative presented through the Assembly of Citizens and Referendum. On Article 67, we have submitted an amendment with the following text: "The status sets out the issues on which citizens decide with the referendum. The local self-government unit assembly can call a referendum on other issues, from, which is also a printing mistake, not this section, but from "your own section." "This way we correct the printing error. He goes on to say, "The way to pass a referendum act is governed by the statutes. The referendum can be called for the area of the local self-government unit, as well as for the individual part of it." The interpretation of the text of the amendment is this - this solution, unlike the proposed solution, provides for the obligation of a referendum on certain issues, while opening up the possibility of decision-making through referenda and other issues, which are not within the scope of mandatory questions to be decided by the referendum. I think this, and the explanation I gave in the introduction, speaks clearly enough that this amendment should be accepted. I thank the president of the assembly for putting the amendments to Article 43 again at the beginning of the session; I was not present, but she did withdraw. And here I am using this time, since I overstepped in Article 43.5 minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17969	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Radoicicic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 89, the abstentions were not voted 38, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment to Article 68 that regulates and determines how it is called upon, debated and proposed by the citizens' assembly. I propose that this article be amended 68th and that it reads: "If the local self-government unit assembly does not accept the proposal contained in the People's Initiative, it is required to issue a referendum on this proposal within 90 days of the date of adoption of the decision on non-acceptation". The municipality's assembly must by referenda check the correctness of the stance when it rejects a civil initiative signed by more than 10% of voters. Otherwise, the citizens' initiative would turn into a very secret citizens' assembly. This amendment has been proposed for two reasons. One reason is for this citizens' assembly to be deleted, and another, which is bound by a unit of local self-government when it is not defined what when the people's initiative is rejected. So, with this amendment, we are trying to propose that the authorities of the municipality undertake that, even after the refusal of the citizens' initiative, within 90 days, they will consider, or decide to call a referendum on which citizens themselves would declare themselves. Then it would have to be a commitment to the community council. Otherwise, the proposal and explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that this amendment is rejected, as the solution is contained in Article 68. The bill is more legal and rational. The explanation was made resavisically, so it's copied and there's no similarity between the others and this proposal, which completely changes the content of Article 68. The amendment I have proposed is only the way the local self-government unit is obliged to decide, if it does not accept a citizens' initiative on some of their decisions, within 90 days on the calling of a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17971	I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 56, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17973	If you adopt the law as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then farce and theatre are a choir of citizens and a folk initiative. There's no sequencing. Anything that the citizens' assembly can bring, the congregation of the municipality can refuse, it's over. Any initiative to sign and direct 10% of citizens to the municipality's assembly, the municipal assembly refuses, it's over, the story is over. Then what's that for? We have suggested that if the Assembly rejects a civil initiative signed by more than 10% of the inhabitants of the territory, then it must call a referendum, that citizens be told whether what was sought by the initiative or what the assembly of the municipality had resolved in its session. The government of the Republic of Serbia has now been embarrassed. In fact, two MPs predicted the same provision, but only in Article 70, not in Article 68, in which we reacted. The government replied that the solution proposed by the government was more comprehensive and rational, and it said to the promoters to Article 70 that it was not complete, nor rational, that the local self-government assembly is bound by law to call a referendum unless it accepts the proposal contained in the national initiative. We don't need to be surprised how the government gives us an explanation of how it accepts the amendments. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted one of the amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia, you have been briefly informed of this, to Article 54. Under the amendment, the Bill on Local Self-Government will now write -- the Council for International and Ethnic Relations has the right to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Since when do laws regulate the rights to launch an initiative or proceedings before the Constitutional Court of Serbia? It's regulated by the Serbian Constitution. Everyone has the right to initiate the initiative, and every body or organisation has the right to initiate the procedure. What did you need to write that the advice on international and ethnic relations has the right to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court? There's a matter that's constitutional and that doesn't fit into the laws at all. Laws would have 1,000 members if you wrote everything like this. Someone who cares about legislation has to say this is pointless and this isn't going into law. So I suggest that if you really want to provide self-government to citizens, accept the amendment that the municipal assembly is obliged to call a referendum, unless it agrees with an initiative signed by more than 10% of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17974	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 91, a abstentioned one, did not vote 36, of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic submitted to the 69th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word is Rajko Baralic, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17975	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, respected radicals, members of 69th are regulated to provide citizens with the opportunity to discuss an important issue in the territory of the unit of local self-government to discuss the referendum. The proposed member in 69 says that the local self-government unit assembly can issue a referendum on issues from its own initiative. The Assembly of the Local Samoa Administration Unit is required to call a referendum on the issue of its work at the request of citizens in the local self-government unit in a manner established by law and statute, etc. I suggested that article 69 be changed and that it reads: "The status of the unit of local self-government determines the number of signatures needed to launch the People's Initiative. "Why does it matter? Census of 10%, which is almost 200,000 people in Belgrade; in Cačka, where I come from, 9,700 people; in the municipalities of Gornji Milanovac, Luciani and Ivanica, these are municipalities from the district from which I come, also from four to several thousand citizens. Sometimes it is almost impossible for some interest in part of the territory, which is interesting for the urban area, and not for the territory of the village and vice versa, to provide a 10% censorship. For example, along with the Municipality of Kraljevo, the municipalities of Gornji Milanovac and Ivanjicaj are the largest in Serbia. So it takes 140 kilometers from the end of a municipality to secure this 10% censorship. As a result, I think the proposed amendment ensures that the local self-government unit itself assesses and regulates the degree of censorship for the municipality and that the percentage provides citizens of that municipality, that they can make their needs and their civil rights valid. These few members here are very important. Mr. Toma Nikolic has now provided an argument in the previous article, which is absolutely acceptable from our point of view. Our MPs in the following members also have amendments that try to correct some of the solutions in this law, which is today, we can say reliably, failed the exam because it was lost by adopting some strange amendments... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... (I just spent two minutes) The basic idea of a legislator and I think we could provide local self-government with something more favourable if we iron these few amendments the way we suggested. I urge you to accept the amendment to article 69 and vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17976	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 84, with three abstentions, did not vote 36, a total of 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milan Jankovic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to the 70th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Col. Mitrovic and I tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on local self-law on Article 70. We propose changing and saying: "If the local self-government unit assembly does not accept the proposal contained in the People's Initiative, it is necessary to call a referendum on this proposal within 90 days of the date of the decision not to take. "This amendment establishes the assembly's obligation to issue a referendum on the proposal contained in the People's Initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17978	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17979	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I believe that the amendment of counterpart Jankovic should be accepted for several reasons. If this amendment were to be accepted, then the National Initiative Institute, but also the importance of the referendum itself, would be unquestionably strengthened, as an iblius of the direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government. It is logical, of course, if the amendment were accepted, to strengthen both the impact and the importance of citizens in the affairs of local self-government. It would be logical to accept this amendment, too, because the municipality should not remain deaf to the demands of citizens, which they launched through the citizens' initiative. Because if the bill provides such a price to launch the citizens' initiative, and to remind you - it is extremely high, it is 10% of the electoral body and you can see for yourself how much strength, perseverance, effort is needed to collect so many signatures and meet that requirement in order to launch this initiative. We believe it would be perfectly logical that such a proposal cannot remain just a matter of the municipality's assembly, that such a proposal cannot remain just a matter of the congregation's majority, because if 130,000 citizens, for example, in the Belgrade area, are to launch an initiative, so the City Assembly is to declare it negatively, it would probably be logical for the Assembly to have an obligation to declare the issue of citizens through the referendum. We believe that this amendment by Parliamentarian Jankovic should also be accepted for the reason that by accepting it, by applying it, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in 1985, which points out that there is a need to strengthen the forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, such as those cited by a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17980	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 76, the abstention of three, was not voted 40, of the 153-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to delete Chapter IV of the Meat Self-Government and Articles 71, 73, 74, 75, 76. National MP Veroljub Arsic proposed that the chapter above Articles 71, 73, 74, 75, 76 be deleted. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are. There's a word from the National Envoy Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17981	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is in favour of abolishing the local communities, and there are more reasons for that. The first is that even this law still hasn't been regulated as the advice of local communities is being chosen. And this legislative proposal stipulates that this is being resolved by the statutes of municipalities, the statutes of local communities, at citizens' assemblies, so now we have a situation that as many local communities and as many municipalities as there are, we have so many ways to choose the advice of local communities. This can practically mean that a council of the local community is being set up today, so someone is angry that he is not in the council and finds a few more people the next day, organizes a new choir of citizens, sets up a new community council. The damages of all this, in any case, are citizens because local communities are mostly funded and they exercise their rights, and obligations work through local self-dependence. Even in this law, it is not regulated how meat self-delivery is being called, how many citizens should come out to plead for that meaty self-delivery, but it is important that everyone pays for that meaty self-dependence. The Serbian Radical Party envisioned in the law on local self-law that she proposed, which was in effect until you gentlemen of the DOS came to power, that the funds from meat contributions to rural local communities were directed to the giro accounts of rural local communities, but when it comes to urban local communities, where there are many more residents, where there are much more resources and more potential for abuse, the funds were directed to a special jury account of the Directorate for Construction, so the Council of the Local Community only decided where the funds would be spent, and used them by the Construction Directorate, means someone who is much more competent and skilled to use those funds. This legislative proposal means again, the local communities themselves have the means of local self-dependence. And how are these funds used most often? First of all, they are not used at all for the purpose for which the meat contribution is called, but rather, the most common is the sponsorship of sports clubs, associations and societies, and we all know that this is the easiest way to launder money. Because of this, I believe that this amendment, in any case, needs to be adopted, because the law does not come into force immediately, but in the next regular elections, so Mr. Minister will have enough time to regulate this matter properly, not to leave the local communities at will to have such financial resources. I've said more than once about this pay phone that it's a shame for a fellow MP when he has to speak in front of an empty room. So I ask you now to establish the quorum so that we can continue to work further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17982	The failure of MPs to attend a session of the National Assembly is equal to the violation of the time limit set for discussion and discussion... The non-representation of the session is an equal violation of the lack of respect for the time specified for the debate on the amendment, and MP Veroljub Arsic expressed doubts about the existence of the quorum, so I ask the National Assembly to establish the quorum. [[elevator.]] The quorum is determined. ) I find that we have a quorum for work and we continue to work, we continue the debate in detail on the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17983	The honourable Members of the People, Madam Chairman, have not yet happened once before that you have fulfilled your obligation, and that the MPs do not warn you, or that you have interrupted the session when you see from that place very well that there is no quorum for work, and then we have to wait a few minutes to gather MPs, so that this assembly can work. The SRS MP, Veroljub Arsic, asked for the four-meat self-government chapter and all members from 71 to 76 to be deleted. In principle, we were also opposed to allowing the local self-government, or local community, and you have suggested other forms of local self-government, such as the neighborhood, quarter, district, something that is not common in our practice. We don't even have neighborhoods in big cities, we have blocks, that's something that exists; if you already wanted to be authentic, you should have been authentic, and not to accept some foreign expressions, the fourth one too -- the districts, there used to be some police districts, but in this sense never. Local self-government and local communities are likely to survive, although the justification for this is not given in the bill, according to the system "my concern is to move on to another", as Article 76 provides that local self-government can even entrust some of its original competences to local communities. Now, we've been talking about the great extent of local self-government jurisdiction, how important they are, they're being decided by the council, the number of committees is as planned, as much as 75 in the municipalities. So 75 very competent people decide that. All these acts are being prepared now bigger, as you have established it, but in any case, the professional authorities of the administration, and now you're transferring it to the local self-government, which consists of the councils, which the citizens have chosen, and how we don't know, because the statutes of each municipality will decide how they will be elected, so somewhere the president of the municipality will have that right, now the mayor, is likely to call elections for the authorities of the local communities, so there will be a number of citizens involved in these elections. Probably some census will be determined by that decision. It will be regulated in a very different way, so some 50 people, who are always in the local community, or playing chess, or agreeing on other jobs, will decide on very important things, which are important for the citizens of that local community. But we all have to agree, I guess the local community as a form of local self-government is completely out of line, and, as much as you want to keep what's in place, thinking that this has the advantage, you need to realize that we need to move forward, because in many of the provisions of this law you say we're in the 21st century, and then you go back to 1945, and you're constantly pulling back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17984	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17985	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will not support this amendment. In fact, we believe that local communities should exist, that the local community is an institute which, in its essence, is deeply embedded in the essence of local self-government, that the local community, unlike the civil initiative and referendum, which have these ad hoc characteristics, represents a permanent form of participation of citizens in performing certain jobs of common interest. We think that local communities should also exist because of the structure of our municipalities. You know what our municipalities are like, we have them from several thousand to several hundred thousand, spatially very different. We believe that for this reason there are many areas, many parts, which absolutely have some individuality and subjectivity, their history that only through the local communities can be proven sufficiently and we think that the local communities should absolutely exist. Meat communities should also exist because they are a form of self-organization and self-help, in order to meet the specific needs of certain smaller territorial groups, otherwise, within these large communities, which exist in Serbia. Meat communities should also exist because they represent a form of participatory democracy. According to many local self-government theorists, self-organization and this participatory democracy fall into the dominant trends of the modern world. For all these reasons, we cannot support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17986	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put to vote the amendments of MP Veroljub Arsic. For 11, against 117 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 71 to vote. For 20, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 22, a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted the amendment to article 71. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17987	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in front of the Soviet Union, I have submitted an amendment to Article 71, which reads: "After Article 2, a new position of 3 is added, which reads: "The local community can be established for two or more villages." Why do we propose this amendment? We believe that in practice it was not well shown that those smaller villages, which had between 70 and 300 inhabitants, could not fight for their rights and for what followed them in local self-government. We hope that if more villages join together in a local community, they will be able to accomplish what is coming to them together. These local communities may not have received anything from local self-government by now, but they have also not received any from the Serbian government. The Minister of Agriculture, instead of proposing some law that is related to agriculture and the village, doesn't care about it, he was only there when the omnibus law was proposed, as if in Vojvodina people were not engaged in agriculture. Also, local communities have been taken care of by the councils so far, and it happens in practice, if the councilman is from a small village, he doesn't take care of that small village, and even if he does, the party forbids him. If he does not obey the party's orders, then the party shall take away his mandate. The president of the local community cannot be taken away from his post. It is chosen by locals in the local community, so that more villages through one real representative will be able to look for what has not been applied so far in practice. When the village is mentioned, here's the spring set, we don't have regressed oil. Oil is very expensive at gas stations, given that the price of the agricultural product is low. Also, peasants do not know what the price of grain is, and they have sown grain. I think that the local community and the representative of the local community will fight for these rights, perhaps through the local community, because it does not happen through MPs. Perhaps this particular representative of the local community will go to the Minister of Agriculture and ask for a residual agricultural pension payment, because if a passenger car is driven to a farmer, he cannot register that passenger car unless he has paid taxes, and he has no place to pay taxes because he has not received a pension and has not paid his sugar tail. I often mention it here and I have to mention it. Once again, the Soviet Union proposes to accept this amendment and I hope this amendment will help those small villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17988	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17989	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the law we are discussing in particular, does not exclude the possibility of organising, at the level of local self-government, two or more villages. Since this amendment raises no question about the character of the law, and provides for such a possibility, we feel it is necessary to support it, because it is better to establish something precise by law than to leave it to everyone to interpret it. So we will support this amendment that opens up the possibility of establishing a local self-government in the community of two or more villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17990	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 71 to vote. For 124, against three, the abstentions were not voted 25, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17991	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted two amendments concerning the organisation of local communities. One is on Article 8. The draft law, and that amendment is only the consequence of this amendment that I have submitted to Article 72. It's a bill of law. It is, in fact, that local communities organise the municipality by an absolute majority of the votes of the councils, and not by means of referendums in the local community, because I find it still impossible to organise the local community in this way, i.e. that citizens are not interested in declaring themselves in the organisation of the local self-government. When we discussed the amendment to Article 8. The draft law, Minister Vladan Batic came out and accepted the amendment, so he became an integral part of the proposal, and since he was only a consequence of the amendment to Article 72, I spoke to the minister and he would certainly accept this one, but he is not present at the moment, so there is no logic that we do not accept the amendment to Article 72, because the government has accepted the amendment to Article 72. Please accept this amendment, because we would have a problem later -- the Justice Committee would have to intervene, because they would have two members who are not in agreement with each other, or they are contradictory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17992	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 72 to vote. For 110, against 30, the abstentions were not voted 13 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this amendment. The People's MP, Bosko Nicic, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For four, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted 23, out of a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For five, against 119 abstentions, 27 of the 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 76a after Article 76a. National MP Milan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 76a be added after article 76a. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic to the Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17993	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 77(1). The bill says: "The funds for the financing of original and trusted businesses are provided in the budget of the local self-government unit." The amendment of the Assembly Group, which I have submitted to this member, reads in Article 77(1). The bill deletes the point and adds the words "and the budget of the Republic". Here's the explanation of that amendment. In accordance with Article 113(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, can legally entrust the performance of certain tasks to a particular municipality and transfer funds to it for these matters. Since Article 1 of this Article does not explicitly provide that the funds of the municipality for entrusted transactions are also provided from the budget of the Republic, this amendment shall be precisely regulated in order to avoid any problem in the application of this Article. Thus, this amendment specifically regulates this member and thus avoids possibly his misreading. The substance of the proposed text of this article shall not be changed. The Soviet Parliament Group believes this amendment should be accepted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17994	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 109 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 77th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17995	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the Sandzak Democratic Party have intervened in that part of this law that speaks of the sources of income of local self-government units. I'm still going to read this article to figure out what this is about. So, article 77 says, "The funds for financing the original and trusted jobs are provided in the budget of the local self-government unit. The funds of the unit budget of local self-government shall be provided from the original and concessiond public revenues, in accordance with this law. Units of local self-government which are unable to provide funding for business over the year for the original and concessiond public revenues, additional funding from the Republic's budget is provided." We believe that another position should be added to this article, which should read: "The units of local self-government belong to a part of the additional funds of the Republic's budget, if its territory or part of its territory belongs to an underdeveloped area of the Republic". A longer explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that the government was not categorically against the amendment. All that is stated is indeed true, especially as defined in Article 99, which says that when determining the annual volume of funds belonging to the local self-government unit, development is used, or underdevelopment as one of the criteria for determining the volume of such funds. Citizens from underdeveloped municipalities feel that their underdevelopment does not stem from their being less capable of working there. It will rather be that this is due to inadequate policy that has led to these areas. I'm not just thinking about the last 10, 12 years, but about one longer period. For this reason, it is quite appropriate and adequate for citizens in these areas to demand that this one injustice be corrected against them. True, we in the budget, the annual budget of the Republic, did not foresee any more significant funds for these purposes, as I recall. It was all about 930 million, but I think the problem we will face during the privatisation process and the overall social economic change, power and these resources would alleviate these problems. In fact, you know that many workers are now out of work. We have to admit that it's not exactly the same as when a worker in Priboj, a FAP worker, is out of a job, like a worker from, say, a Kanjija or a New Wrabi, etc. It's really painful for a worker to be out of work anywhere, but we still have to respect some arguments. We are the end where the rural area is so destroyed, there is no infrastructure. Workers of these companies are mostly from these mountainous and mountainous areas. There are no conditions... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... for their return to those villages. It is therefore necessary to intervene in this social programme in a special way, and when it comes to underdeveloped municipalities. That is why I especially appeal to those MPs who come from these underdeveloped areas. Yes, it is three minutes, but as a representative of the Parliament Club, I have the right to another three minutes. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] (President: Four-minute MP. ) I appeal specifically to you colleagues from these underdeveloped areas to support this amendment. After all, you are responsible for those who chose you. I thank you and you will suffer me for another three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17996	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 77 on the vote. For 20, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski to Article 78. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 8, against 107, two abstentions, 39 did not vote, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Karolj Kermeci. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17997	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to remind you that the Vojvodina reformers have submitted, that is, this same group of MPs, to the amendment to Article 6, which we have said that units of local self-government must have certain resources. The government and this respected home have not accepted this amendment, so the amendment to Article 78 and the next amendment to Article 132 is actually losing meaning and therefore we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17998	The applicant withdrew the amendment, making it stop being the subject of discussion in particular. The amendment was submitted to the Group of National Ambassadors Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u17999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, the DSS proposes to insert in Article 78 between points 8 and 9 a point 8a, which says: "A share of the income of 30% of the state-owned fixed property used by the local self-government unit, institution and other organisations whose unit is the founder of local self-government, so that the funds obtained can be spent exclusively on capital investments, i.e. maintaining and increasing property and capital units of local self-government". The amendment proposed a solution in the spirit is the decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, represents the transfer of certain rights to management, as well as the management of immovable property in state property. On the one hand, it is stimulating, until it is touched on the government's authority on the other. The solution is stimulating because it would speed up the activity of the local self-government unit to rationalise, i.e. to more rationally manage the immovableities that it has to use, thus achieving overall socially more favourable effects. In doing so, the government retains control of the property of the Republic of Serbia, as units of local self-government cannot, without the government's consent, sell real estates owned by the Republic of Serbia. In addition, 70% of the funds achieved by selling these immovableities would represent revenue that would be available to the government through the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is particularly important that revenues are derived from the sale of these immovableities protected from single consumption and consumption for personal use, as they are directed towards capital investments, i.e. to maintaining and increasing the property of units of local self-government. The proposed solution is fair among other things and because it is property that has been created from local financial sources, and some have been created by the culture of the same citizens living in these local self-governments since the war. I hope you will support this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18000	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18001	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we cannot support this amendment because it is a state property that has been allocated to local self-government and funds obtained by the sale of that state property must be treated within the framework of the Republic budget, as property of the Republic and the state, and then we can discuss distribution, concrete situations and since constitutional assumptions are made for such a thing. The issue of state property and state property is very serious and the argument expressed here is high quality, however, there is also a counterargumentation which could in fact compromise this idea in some ways, given that there could be an unreasonable sale of state property, without state control in processes that can in themselves have local character, but also the consequences that can be harmful, which can certainly be obtained and of wider importance. So, we can't support this amendment, which doesn't mean that in the perspective that, since mutual relations are regulated legally, the local environment couldn't have such a way, so it's alienating property with which it can only conduct through consensual relations at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18002	The word is made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group, and by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18003	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment does not mean anything contrary to the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia, which was regulated in 1995 that a pen used by a secretary in the municipality belongs to the Republic of Serbia and that municipalities are completely detached from any property. It was brought by the Socialists at a time when they might have feared that the coalition "Together" in municipalities would come to power, then the opposition. With this amendment, we want not to change the existing law, but to allocate 30% of the assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, and sold by the Republic of Serbia, to local self-government. What does that mean exactly? In the current situation, it is the local self-government that maintains or should maintain property, to take care of it because it has been entrusted with aging, without harvesting any income, from its sale, or from its use. The entire local self-government is destimulated. With this amendment, we want to try to stimulate local self-government, to increase budgets, and thus to get real local self-government. The essential thing is, not this amendment; this amendment is one small step in relation to the change of the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia, where part of the property would be given to the people who were on the territory of the municipality and were creating all that property, because no one from Belgrade created the property in Pancheva, but created it by the citizens of Pancheva. Why would someone from Belgrade own property in Panchev? I guess we Pančevci know better how to manage a house or some business space, as well as in Gornji Milanovac, Kragujevac and other towns in Serbia. We believe that this is a small step towards changing the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia to which the property located on the territory of the municipality, which is of general social importance, would exactly trust the municipalities themselves and thus return to that authority to local self-government. Of course, there are no constitutional restrictions on this amendment because the existing constitution was in force while this property was owned by municipalities until 1995, so we do not see an obstacle to the adoption of such an amendment in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18004	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18005	If members of the DOS were to consider this issue alone, something in Serbia might work, but this is just one example. It is truly incomprehensible what DOS wants to respect, whether it wants to respect the Law on Funds in state property, or whether it wants to write laws that won't comply with that law. This amendment cannot be accepted without prejudice to the acceptance of the amendment to Article 6. The bill, again another member of the DOS parliamentarian; Article 6 spoke of units of local self-government using funds in state property, and you deleted it with an amendment. So far, there has been a possibility that co-operation of local self-government municipalities and the Government of Serbia's Property Directorate could lead to estrangement of immovableity and that some of the funds would return to the estate and only for capital facilities. That wasn't a problem at all. Even now it can be much easier to co-operate, and now it's probably the same government, republican and local, in local self-government and at the republican level. This amendment now introduces entirely new relations, relations that are not in line with the legal system in our country, but it should finally be known once whether you are a state-owned property located in the territory of local self-poverty fully available to local self-government until estrangement, without the consent of the Republic. If you are in favour, and I am opposed to knowing that in some municipalities Serbia would be completely robbed through local self-government, and if you are to do so, submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on funds in state property. Until you change that law, don't write such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18006	National MP Milutin Svedovic, replica. Misreading is the basis for a replica to present MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18007	I would only point out once again that this is the next thing, that the income obtained from selling some real estate with the government's consent, or the state would be divided into a percentage of 70% and 30%. It's just that it's nothing else. So it wouldn't be a sale, because it controls the state. So only that 30% would be allocated to capital investments in the local self-government in which the state approved to sell real estate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18008	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18009	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group cannot support this amendment and I must say that at a time when a law has been passed that regulates this issue, in 1995, the Socialist Party of Serbia was at that time guided only by state reasons and who understands the time and reasons will understand and solutions. Who doesn't understand, it's already an absolutely subjective and political problem. This question is very detailedly done and the condition for changes in property status at local level is a change in the Constitution. I know that for the assembly majority of the Constitution is a paper that is drawn from case to case, from need to need, but until the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia changes in this area, the solution is what it is and for these reasons we cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18010	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 93, with three abstentions, did not vote 22, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Sredoje Mihajlov, submitted to the 78th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Wednesday's Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18011	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78. These are sources of public income for local self-government. I noticed 16 points are listed in these sources. I felt it was necessary to add one new point and make it a revenue from mining, oil and forest rents. I don't need to explain it, because so far it's been the incomes of a local community or local self-government. I believe that even now in the territory, location or atara of local self-government, where some exploitation is being done, it would be my turn for local self-government to have income from that exploitation, whether it be gravel, sand, coal, oil, thermal water, etc. I believe that local self-government can have damage, whether it's a question of environmental pollution or the destruction of local roads, communication, railways, or in some way, to make up for what's been destroyed. I may not have lobbyed enough for this amendment of mine, but I'd like you to respect the explanation to get it into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18012	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18013	The Serbian Radical Party will not support this amendment because the amendment completely amends the provision of Article 98(7) of sub-point (1) and (4), which says that local self-government is part of the income from the use of forests and mineral raw materials. If you accept the amendment that is now being made to the municipalities, all income will be included. You will admit that one state must take care of the general interest and must at least try to develop its entire territory evenly. Where would that take us if, in that case, I might be repeating myself for the fifth time, Vrnjačka Banja, Niška Banja, who have extraordinary natural resources, if you still gave them all the income from using these natural resources, then they would decide to also have forms of autonomy and maybe even go through a referendum on secession. In order to develop undeveloped municipalities, about which only two or three members spoke before this was discussed. It cannot, but will be decided by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that part of the income belongs to these municipalities. Indeed, the costs have been increased and traffic, land, are enormously destroyed, but it is also at coal mines, at thermal power plants; it should, of course, be part of their incomes, but that's why one large part should belong to the Republic, that it invests it where these sources do not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18014	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 10, against 134, abstention three, did not vote 25, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Bosko Nicic, submitted to the 78th amendment. The MP has submitted two amendments, but in accordance with Article 142(2). Rules of Procedure, the MP cannot submit any more amendments to the same member of the bill, so that the two amendments submitted by MP Bosko Nicic to Article 78 have been joined into one on which the National Assembly will declare itself. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment in the first part is legally possible, and in the second part it did not accept it. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. Four, against 120, with three abstentions, did not vote 43, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18015	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78, which speaks of the original public incomes of local self-government units, and it reads: "Article 78, paragraph 1, paragraph 10), behind the words "activities" is added - "and revenues from other concession jobs which the local self-government unit concludes in accordance with the law". Therefore, indent 10) will read: "incomes from the concession fee for carrying out municipal activities and revenues from other concessions that the local self-government unit concludes in accordance with the law". I think this amendment opens up space for the concessions of units of local self-government to get room for the resolution of very poor state of municipal enterprises and utility services and opens up room for new revenues from local self-government, so please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18016	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18017	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, needs to support this amendment because it actually removes the procedural difficulties that could arise if the law on concessions is passed before the federal parliament, and then there is a problem with its application at the level of local self-government and the Republic because the laws we are discussing today are not harmonised. Therefore, this does not question the right of the Republic, nor does some and too great obligations be established by the Republic, but actually opens up a space in advance for something that is natural and what will happen, I am convinced, as soon as possible. So, you need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18018	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18019	Dear MPs, the President-in-Office, of course, that all amendments that go towards increasing the jurisdiction of local self-pour will always find support in the DSS parliamentary group, and therefore this amendment that goes in the direction of increasing finance and strengthening local self-government, which is in line with the amendments that we have proposed here. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18020	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 120, against 27, two abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 25, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 92, with two abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? It's pulling the amendment. ) The MP withdraws the amendment, and it ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MP Istvan Ispanovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For seven against 126, the abstentions were missing, he did not vote 41, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stanimirovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? It's pulling the amendment. ) The National MP withdraws the amendment, so that he ceases to be the subject of debate. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18021	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 85, proposing that amendments be made in the sense that provisions be deleted that local municipal fees can be determined at different levels, depending on the type of activity and technical and useful characteristics of the facilities. In this respect, Article 85 allows municipalities to establish municipal taxes at different levels, depending on the type of activity, surface, technical and useful characteristics of the facilities and parts of the territory in which the facilities are located. It is fair and economically justified that local municipal tax is paid at different heights, depending on the surface of the facility and part of the territory - the area where the facility is located. However, it is unfair to prescribe different fees only because of this - which kind of object belongs to and what its technical and useful characteristics are. In the case of local utility taxes, it is best seen. The amount of the company should depend on the area of the facility and on the area where the facility is located - whether it is in the city center, whether it is on the periphery of the city, whether it is in the village etc. It is illogical that this can be influenced by the fact that the object's work belongs to and how it is technically equipped. If no amendments to the bill are made, a strange, simply unsustainable situation will be created on the ground. The local government will act differently, from case to case. They will see whether the business space belongs to a legal person from that municipality or to a legal person on the side. For example, whether it's a shop on the side, whether it's an exposition, a representation, a yard or some other form of legal entity organisation on the side. It'll also create unfair competition. It will also depend on how the tax will be prescribed and how the legal person's relationship with the local government, whether it is supported, is it obedient, too. Therefore, companies from the same municipality will be found in an unequal position. I don't think that's justified. Furthermore, leaving the possibility of introducing different fees, depending on the technical-use characteristics of the facility, also creates a space for different treatment, from case to case. There will be an expression of different perceptions - who needs to be prescribed a higher tax. For example, in some environment they will prescribe more fees because the facilities are modernly equipped, so they will feel that they should pay a higher fee. In the second middle, there will be opinions that these facilities should be subject to lower taxes, as many funds have been invested in their equipment and that these persons should be freed from increased taxis, and that it has a stimulating effect on others, as they will also be paid to that legal person and local authorities in the future. With all this in mind, I think we really need to delete these provisions from the bill and accept the amendment. As for economic strength, criteria are given in a fair way, so some are freed, for example Homework, old art crafts, that's why there's no tax to be introduced. Therefore, there are enough compelling reasons for the amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18022	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 33, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing that Chapter 1.1.2. Self-delivery and members of 87-97 are erasing. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if our argument for the local community wasn't enough to convince you that there are relapses that need to be cleared up, I'll try to give you an argument against self-delivery. Citizens of a single unit of local self-government finance their local self-government, primarily their original public incomes, pay municipal administrative fees, local municipal taxes, residence taxes, land use fees, compensation for using a natural healing factor, compensation for protecting and improving the environment, pay the fines imposed in a misdemeanour procedure, for violations of a prescribed act of the municipality, pay contributions to the revenues made by their work, revenues based on donations and other public local incomes. Citizens finance their local self-government through income tax on citizens, namely: income from agriculture, forestry, autonomous labour, immovableity; income from the lease of mobile items; profit from gambling; income from insurance; other income in accordance with the law; work on profit; profit tax, property, inheritance and gift, transfer of absolute rights; part of the sales tax of products and services, and that - 8% of the sales tax on goods and services on the territory of the municipality, 10% of the taxes on the turnover of products and services delivered on the territory of the city, 15% pay compensation for the use of goods of general interest, and that part of the fees for the use of mineral raw materials, for the materials derived from the water stream, etc. And now they're just short on seducing and self-indulgence. If one unit of local self-government cannot finance its actions from the original incomes and trusted businesses, it even has the opportunity to obtain additional funds from the Republic budget, but cannot reach for self-income, because this is now a "liberation on the villa", a tax on all taxes and on all taxes paid by citizens. And why would a citizen, who fulfils his legal obligations and finance the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, cities, municipalities, why would he give additional funds? What makes the city’s moral right to propose to the public that they declare to themselves that they still have money out of their empty pockets for a dedicated job, which the municipality would love to do, but, behold, there is no funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18024	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18025	If I could also speak as a representative of the parliamentary group, it's about ten members of the law, and I won't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18026	That would be an extensive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18027	Here I am finishing up, I really don't think any further argument is necessary. What's self-indulgence? The proposal consists of a municipality. The citizens' statement is being conducted by the municipalities. You know how citizens plead: there is no secret statement, they go around people's houses, and they are polling among citizens - who is for self-indulgence, who is against it. There's a list of those who are against it. They're exposed to shame -- why they're against sewers, when we need sewers, we need a way, we need a water line. Yeah, but we're asking for it from our country, not our pockets. We paid the state everything she asked for, and now we're asking for living conditions, we're looking for phones, we're asking for electricity. There's no self-indulgence, because it's gone with Cardell. I ask you to seriously consider this, a team before citizens are never satisfied with their self-esteem. They raise funds, pay one bill, and then they bring in various performers, self-indebted funds, we have complaints from citizens that no phones have been introduced for years, that there have been no regulated issues for which they have singled out self-indebted funds and paid. That's why you get out of our brains of an institution of self-dependence, and that's what needs to be cleared up. If there's anything in our past that needs to be cleared up, it's an institution of self-dependence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18028	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18029	Dearly respected presidency, fellow MPs, we Socialists believe that self-delivery should exist because over the past many times it has shown its purpose, because in Serbia, in local self-government, it has been done so much that it cannot even count. If you give the citizen the opportunity to plead on his own whether or not he wants to invest some of his assets in something that can improve his living conditions, then I don't think there's any more serious objections - whether or not that institute should exist. According to information I received from my colleagues, I could conclude the justification for self - contribution. For example, a colleague, Rajko Baralić, from Cačka, told me that the means of self-delivery made a bridge on West Morava, that a system of Rzav, that the purchased computers for elementary and high school, were connected to the internet, as a unique example then. By the way, we know that self-delivery funds have made great things in the field of electricity, that some local roads have been made, that waterways have been made, that much has been done in the area of telephony. When it comes to implementing techniques itself, it is always a question of people's responsibilities in relation to what they accept as a commitment and how they do it. We even had a situation on the ground, that there were, to say, multiparty committees that controlled the distribution of funds collected by self-sufficient, that is, all those jobs that brought self-dependence and implementation. The results were unquestionably good. We think that self-esteem should exist, because in the past, he has shown his purpose and his justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18030	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 24, against 94, with 22 abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18031	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a far greater problem in the abuses committed in the introduction of self-indulgence than in this dilemma whether to remain self-dependence or not. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 87, which reads: "The municipality and its authorities responsible for organising and implementing self-sufficients are obliged to allow all opposition political parties in the municipality to monitor the process of introducing self-increasing, especially the process of secret voting, so that their representatives would have the right to observe and receive copies of the records at all polling stations and in the central commission." Namely, my intention is to prevent the abuses that regularly took place when self-delivery was introduced, by the party in power in local self-government, forming a single-party committee to implement the referendum, almost regularly falsifying a secret public statement. Not to mention the abuses of using that money collected from self-dependence. As an example, I will refer to the Tutin municipality, where a self-dependence was introduced last year and where the central municipal commission announced that around 60% of citizens had gone to the referendum, and we certainly know that 5% of the municipality did not come out. So there was one situation where another imposition was introduced to citizens, which they are having a hard time paying, and that they boast local self-government does not even use money for purpose purposes, but uses them to buy luxury cars, to edit their cabinets. I think that by accepting this amendment, they would legally oblige local self-government to allow one such control in their sublaws and statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18032	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18033	There's a lot I can agree with from my previous presentation. Indeed, one truth has been made. You see, citizens can accept that we, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, make a decision on their behalf that will cost them. On their behalf, we bring taxes, laws, contributions, excises, everything and everything to finance the needs of the state. They see it in television as it's been voted, most of it's been in favour, so what it's going to do -- most of it's democracy. Self - contribution is something completely different and there has never been a majority, but it was considered a municipal shame to fail a proposal to introduce self - contribution. There's never been any control. It's always been over 50% -- it's come out, it doesn't come out. As a citizen of Serbia, I can accept that the National Assembly in my name decides to stick my hand in my pocket and when I buy bread to pay my taxes. I'll take it. But I can't accept two neighbors deciding on a third or even one neighbor deciding on two others. It doesn't say how it's going to plead here. You're here saying most voters need to plead for seduction of self-deportation. In which way, who will control, will it be a secret vote, who will organise the commissions? Ambassador Mukovic took a good look at it. We should've voted and not seduced ourselves at all, because he knows this amendment won't be accepted. The question now arises - why only opposition parties. First, you can see that some parties that are now not in power are not against self-dependence. They may even co-operate with those in the municipality in power, not only to seduce self - contribution, but to falsify results. They're going to feel the falsification of the results of self-indulgence because they want to introduce self-indulgence because it's their ideology. It should be possible to control citizens' statements; not to control how citizens will plead, what you are doing now, you are taking a vote by house whether it is for self-indulgence or against, but rather to control the implementation of the procedure: electoral presses, commissions, representation of political parties in commissions, all parliamentary parties; it would be ideal, the minutes, after which, how many voters are listed. It's the same procedure as holding elections. In that case, I would accept that, on my behalf, the other citizens in the local community or in the municipality make a decision to sign off on their own contribution. But only in that case and in any other case. The question is whether you have the right to sit down, even if there are five of you, and to make a decision to raise funds from you five and a neighbor who doesn't participate in it and doesn't want to: can you make him an obligation to pay for something he doesn't want too. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. The question is, since no one has yet brought proceedings before a court that would consider the rights and duties of a man and a citizen. I don't think there are any such rights, such obligations of a citizen under the Constitution of the Republic. He has an obligation to finance what laws bring, not what those who think they will remain in power in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18034	The word was requested by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18035	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is a good amendment - to allow opposition parties to control the process of self-indulgence. We, one of our amendments, when proposing a Committee on Public Accounts and controlling the movement and financial operations of the municipality, also suggested that the chairman of the Committee be of the opposition party. So including the representatives of opposition parties, if they want someone involved in monitoring the process of self-delivery, can only contribute to doing so in a safe and responsible manner. We will support the amendment of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18036	Thank you, sir, Michael. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: To determine the quorum before the vote. ) The word has a National MP, Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what else to add except for what's been said before. If we really are in favour of preventing an apparent abuse, one way to impose a fine on the people, then we will vote against, that is, this amendment. This will do what all citizens ask of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18038	Thank you, Mr. Huric. Anybody else answer for a word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I ask that we determine the quorum before the vote. I asked, but you said Zeljo had a word. I asked if you were looking for a word. Please approach the vote. For 62, against 28, abstentioned 15, did not vote 53, out of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18039	I have my doubts about the vote. I ask you to remove the cards of the Members who are not present. (From O.R.: No microphone turned on. Never mind, I hear myself. Please remove the cards of all those who are not in the O.R. and vote again. This was a falsified and fake vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18040	Mr. Nikolic, I've asked loudly twice if anyone's looking for a word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: I raised my hand, but you said Zeljo had a word. You can't do that from the bench, that you went out for a pay phone, and I offered it to you. That's not true. I've asked out loud twice if anyone's looking for a word. You could have gone out for a pay phone. (Tomislav Nikolic from the scene: How is it not true? I raised my hand. This was a falsified vote. Please choose your words, Mr. Nikolic. At that moment, I chaired without any intention of falsifying the vote. You had a chance to get out, you missed it. Are you asking me to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Yes and to establish the quorum. Now you're asking us to determine the quorum? I'd like to ask you, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18041	It's not hard for me. This procedure should have been applied a little while ago. I raised my hand, I said I needed to establish the quorum before the vote. You should've let me go out for a pay phone. I ask you to establish a quorum before voting on whether or not you have injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18042	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, wants us to determine the existence of a quorum. Please approach the quorum determination. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Are you asking us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Now let's vote. ) I ask you to approach the vote, and at the request of MP Tomislav Nikolic, that I have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, without allegedly giving him a word when voting on the previous amendment. For 52, against 72, with five abstentions, did not vote 10, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is sought by MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we voted on Mr Muj Mukovic's amendment on the monitor, we had 158 MPs present. However, when the quorum was determined, there was indeed no more than 130. Therefore, it is really not correct as it was voted on on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18044	Col. Huric, Mr. Nikolic voiced the same suspicion. That injury was decided by the Rules of Procedure and determined that it was not there. You have come out to express your personal interests, which you have no right to when you call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The assembly decided there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Kermeci Karolj. The applicant of the amendment asks for a word, please, Mr. Kermecs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88 of the Law and I have proposed that, in Article 88, point 10, after the word "return" the words "or orientation" are added. Here's to give a brief explanation about the amendment. Article 88, among other things, lists what should be contained in the decision to introduce a self-delivery.......... (President: please, let's listen to Mr. Kermetzi. )......................................................................................................... and point 4) speaks of the need to establish the total amount of funds to be collected. I have to say that since self-investment is introduced in a few years, and most often in five years, it is difficult to determine how much these funds are collected for those five years, and on the other hand for the investments proposed by these local self-indebted funds, it is difficult to determine how much they will total. Let me take an example, let's say, Kanjijs: the programme includes the introduction of a local self-delivery for five years worth of 20 million dinars, which will fund the construction of 10 blocks. It's possible the funds can be made in 4.5 years. But the streets are not finished, as inflation, meanwhile, has eaten some of the funds. If we put under point 10) and the ability to channel funds, then, in addition to the return decision, we would have the possibility in local communities to regulate and channel the funds until the streets are completed by investment or for other purposes. Please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18046	Thank you, Mr. Kermecs. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. If he doesn't answer, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 83, the abstentioned one, did not vote 9, out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 88th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment ask for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18047	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88 of point 10, which speaks exactly what we just heard about the return of funds that have been paid more on purpose. However, it happens in practice that these funds can be returned, or used to finish certain jobs. For example, if the Old Town municipality decides to build pedestrian crossings on the territory of its municipality and if more money comes, then these funds can be used to complete other pedestrian crossings. Then what happened in front of the Republic Assembly last week wouldn't have happened if a non-intentional walking crossing had been made. In that case, it wouldn't have been so much dust, because as much dust as there was around that crossing, even the pedestrian crossings had not been seen. Secondly, there are opportunities and in some ways it has prevailed, that since the Resistance entered the Republic Assembly, on the streets of Belgrade, mice have been rounding water and drawing pedestrian passages, and it can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18048	Mr. Stanimirovic, please stick to the topic, that is, to talk about the amendment you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18049	Thank you very much. Allow me to return to my amendment to Article 88(10). However, as Article 132 stipulates, some provisions will take effect after regular elections held in Serbia, and by looking at the mood of the DOS, based on a survey I have conducted, I am still optimistic that the elections will be held by the end of the 21st century. Therefore, for principled reasons, in order not to prejudge things, I would give up this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18050	I thank Mr. Stanimirovic. I understand, Mr. Stanimirovic, is it good to say that you have withdrawn the amendment? Thank you. Member of the People's Parliament submitted to the 91st Amendment Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. [[Tomislav Nikolic from the site asks for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18051	You don't turn my microphone on either.. (President: I just did it, I'm sorry. ... and not to read the Rules of Procedure, read sometimes, you are obliged to interrupt the session when you determine on the electronic system that there is no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18052	I thank Mr. Nikolic, and if I understand your proposal correctly, it is once again to determine whether the Assembly has a quorum to work with. Since it's five minutes until work hours are up, I'm taking a break and we're extending at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert the identification cards into the MPs to establish the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Kermeci Karolj. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Kermeci Karolj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 91, paragraph 2. The proposal for a law on local self-government states "A decision with a list of citizens to whom self-delivery is being delivered to a payer whose seat is outside the area where the funds are being collected. "I have proposed that attitude 2 be changed and it reads: "The decision to introduce self-delivery is delivered to the payer whose seat is outside the area where the funds are collected. "What's the difference? The difference is you don't deliver the list. You can imagine the chaos that will be created if the law regulates the obligation of the local community to deliver the list of citizens to work organisations, businesses and if it remains in the law, it will create a commitment to the local community, or one who makes a calculation of personal income and deductions, a local contribution, can say - I did not get the list, I have no obligation to refuse the local self-dependence. I think this part should be thrown out, because then we're going to have to hire a few workers in the local community, who will constantly monitor the migration of workers in businesses, and that's the only way they can. I don't think that's acceptable. I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18055	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 17, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18056	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, my Leskovcans, for the seventh day we have been dealing with the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, which the government and the largest number of DOS MPs have said is historically and we socialists, from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, agree with all of them on the notion of historicality, so the law that we adopt in an emergency session is indeed, in the opinion of the Socialists, and enters history, but as a disgrace of this parliament, because most of this law will probably never experience application. Forty of the most important members of the law, respected by my Leskovci, are scheduled for application in two and a half years, there in 2005. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 95(2), not for formal reasons, but to define, in a minimum, reliefs and exemptions from self-dependence payments for all in Serbia. The fact is, honourable MPs, that self-communication is being called mainly in poor and underdeveloped municipalities, because rich municipalities have large budgets, and self-deliveries mean nothing to them. All the past 25 years, my poor Leskovac has lived with a 2% self-income contribution to personal income and 5% on catastrian income. The most important infrastructure facilities of Leskovci, including the Sports Centre "Health", were built with the pool, which is today the pride of the city, and was brought into the final phase and the water system of Barje, which provides Leskovec with drinking water for this and the next century. Unfortunately, in 2000, as the DOS government arrived in November, it was not a renewed contribution to the completion of the construction of the Barja water system, so it was called into question the completion of this capital facility. Every time we called in Leskovac, we made sure that the most vulnerable citizens, workers and pensioners with the lowest incomes were freed from self-sufficient payments. Therefore, the amendment to Article 95 also requires that a sacred code of righteousness be installed in attitude 2 for all who introduce self - contribution, and municipalities will continue to have the opportunity to offer other reliefs as well. In the end, since the president of the municipality will worry about spending self-dependence funds because it enters the budget, let me remind you, too, of the new function you are introducing. This law by the president is making city Bill Gates, only with other people's money, adding to him the post of city sheriff, with the private police, which you will certainly then assign to him. There are great powers in the way of spending the mayor's budget.... (President: you have 30 seconds left. ....................................................................................................... Dear fellow MPs, but there are, as a rule, the biggest businessmen and the richest people, the presidents of municipalities, who are able to think in the dimensions of large numbers and large pairs. And when it comes to our small environments in Leskovec, for example, they will be professors, doctors, engineers or lawyers who today receive 200 to 300 marks and who barely feed their family and their.... (President: Please discuss, for four minutes, not the amendment, but the revenue. ....................................................................................................... When moving in the price numbers are little angry burgers. I think he needs to fill and spend millions of municipal budgets on his own, where they'll find themselves according to what you DOS have adopted. [[Sagar.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18057	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 125, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to Article 97. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to article 97 refers to the use of municipal self-dependence. In the position of Article 97, when it comes to spending money from municipal self-debt, it is here in the end - that the funds are strictly used. In the same article in Section 2, which is about the local community's delicacies, it does not say that the funds are strictly used, so I have therefore submitted a proposal to add words in Section 2 - strictly intended character. With my proposal, Article 97(2) would look like this - money collected on the basis of a decision on self-delivery, introduced in the area of the local community, is paid into the account of the local community and are strictly intended. If you do not accept this amendment that I have submitted, you will make it difficult for people in local communities to work. First, the local community, under these conditions, will not seduce the local self-deliveries. Secondly, no one in the local community will sign for self-dependence unless they know in advance what the funds will be spent on. Thirdly, if we don't install funds in the meat contribution law to be spent on purpose, then funds for travel, water, sewerage can be spent on financing a football club, hospitals, local community management and various other needs. Such a proposal will most affect the local communities that are the most distant from the municipal centres, as they need the most self-dependence. If we want to move faster to develop rural areas and villages more kilometers away from the city and if we want to improve the quality of life in those environments for citizens living in those areas, then we would have to put in the law that self-delivery funds are strictly used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18059	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic to Article 98. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18060	Gentlemen of Parliament, it seems to me that the 98th article is one of the key members of this law, because it sees an assessment of whether decentralisation and transfer of authority to local self-government or not will actually take place in Serbia. This amendment and this member of the law speak of the revenues of local self-government. When looking at Article 98 at first, you can really think, because of the number of points and sub-points and because of what is proposed, that there will be a greater achievement of the income of local self-government units and that municipalities will have enough resources to support local self-government, public services and development. I have to say, if a little bit of this is analyzed, it's not going to happen. First, the income tax of eight-point citizens can only talk about one where more income is possible, which is income from self-employed activity, all others have the character of low income and have never been issued to local self-government authorities. So there's no such deal, there's no such amount and there's no guarantee of happiness, so many leases and so on, that I don't list everyone who's going to help make that income. We have come into a situation where our infrastructure activity in local self-government units has almost died. There is a very small volume of work in the area of infrastructure, and above all, I mean electricity, water, sewerage, road construction, and not to mention solidarity of housing, which is not almost in Serbia as a whole. And, finally, when you talk about sales tax, it will be achieved to the extent that citizens will be able to pay for certain types of goods. If we have a state of recession, a decline in production in the economy, a low standard of living and low wages, then we simply can't say that there will be a growth in sales tax in the local unit, so that's where we can expect a drop in income. What I have predicted with the amendment and given the possibility for local self-government units to actually make certain revenues, that is, in co-operation with the Republic inspection bodies, in the fight against the gray economy from gross traffic charged to traffic, they get 30%. In an explanation that I am denied this amendment, it was said that it would be provided for by a law on percentage for municipalities and cities in Serbia. I must say, it must be foreseen by this law... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) And another thing, sub-point (10) - part of the proceeds from privatising the company amounting to 5% of the amount paid by the privatisation of the company from the territory of the unit of local self-government. I must remind you that we, the Privatization Act, have predicted 5%. So where some company is sold for $100 million, $5 million must remain a unit of local self-government. It must be entered into this law as a source of income. It's just amazing that the government and the committees in charge refuse this, even though in previous laws we've established these facts and said that this is an important item that we have to have here. I can only doubt that the Ministry of Privatisation really has an interest in transferring these funds to local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18061	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 117, one abstention, was not voted 20, out of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by a group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, in Article 98(2), sub-point (5), is amended and reads: "(5) of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, with at least 50% of the revenue received being spent on capital investments". The tax on the transfer of absolute rights is certainly a Republic tax and now stands at 5%, and by all means local income. As significant revenues from the sale of enterprises and state assets can be expected in the future, revenue from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights will be significant. The municipalities or cities on whose territory is the subject of sale would receive significant resources, which could exceed the total public revenues achieved on their territories and would be in a privileged position. Hence, the amendment suggests that 50% of the revenues received must be invested in capital investment and that otherwise the part of the revenue cannot be spent, which is one part of which is invested by local or regional financial sources in the construction and development of these companies, in fact, returned to those local funds. The proposed solution introduces justice and objectivity, which is in the spirit of the principle of decentralisation, but also the principles of justice and solidarity in general. Thus, the funds obtained on this basis would at least be protected from one-off spending and would be aimed at preserving and increasing the capital of local self-government units. So it's just that 50% of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights is invested in the local capital investment community, purposefully. So nothing changes, just purposely to use 50% of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18063	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18064	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, just to clarify what the essence of this amendment is. I will take an example of Beocin municipality, as cement sales are expected soon. For example, the Beocin municipality and its annual budget do not exceed 60-70, perhaps 80 million dinars. On this basis, in one year, when Beocinska cementara is sold, 5% is a tax on the transfer of absolute rights, if it is 60 million, you see what 5% is, and all of it goes into that budget at one point and it can be spent in that year. So there's going to be a situation where this one-time tax or the one-time community income is going to be greater than that budget. What we want to ensure by this law is that there is no one-time spending of funds, such large funds, that have been created in a municipality for years and generations. It is simple that the municipality has an obligation to invest these assets in capital investments, i.e. investments, in increasing the real estate itself, and in general, facilities located on the territory of the municipality. So this isn't an increase in the amount of funding at all, nor does it go into funding by the government, but it only puts one limit, so that these funds are spent more securely, so that they don't end up being spent once. And when someone asks us -- where's the cement money, we can say -- well, in one year we spent it in the budget, did we buy the car, split the wages, or did we do something third. Instead, there should be dedicated investments, that it goes into roads, sewers or something else from the infrastructure, so that, simply, that object that the city lost, let's say, that cementary, in a way, would be returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18065	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18066	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, sometimes it is really hard to understand the views of individual MPs and MPs. On the one hand, when the tax system was adopted, when the budget was adopted, you all voted for the Solidarity Building Fund to enter the local register without any control. We warned you that the money, which would otherwise have to go to the building of apartments from the Solidarity Fund, would end up in the salaries of officials in local self-government, for the creation of buildings. And that's how it was -- yes. Where did the Solidarity Fund do anything in any city? Show us three apartments in Belgrade that were built last year. Not one. It's all gone where local self-government wants it. When we talked about trusted transactions the day before yesterday, we pointed out that the state should be paying a special account of funds for entrusted transactions, in order to be deliberately defined for those tasks for which the Republic is paying off. Now you've found that you're suggesting that you control local self-government, that 50% must go into investment. So first, control your Privatisation Act - how can cement be sold in Beocino without anyone giving a previous concession, the right to use the resources to produce cement? With what right will a cement shop buyer in Beocino use a resource, a natural resource? You have a concession law, you have to limit his time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18067	There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18068	Dear Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I could understand Mr. Ivkovic's view that it is a party solidarity fund, but it is a solidarity fund that works through a new concept and I will best deny you. For example, an example of the town of Nis, in which 88 apartments were financed from the Solidarity Fund last year. You want us to tell you about the Solidarity Fund and the effects of your housing policy in Belgrade, about 700 apartments, which have been unlawfully allocated, about the Solidarity Fund, or the solidarity funds spent in party investments during your rule period? I don't think this is the right place for that kind of controversy. In any case, we cannot support this amendment, not because we doubt the credibility of local self-government, nor because we doubt the good intentions of the promoter, because we would practically commit local self-government to rerouting this sum in this way to capital investment, and there is no guarantee that in every municipality the sum obtained through such a grotesque shop will be sufficient for some kind of capital investment. In fact, we don't practically have any cement store in every municipality, so that we can commit ourselves in this way, through the law, to this shift of funds at the level of local self-government. So local self-government in front of citizens responds and regulates the degree of exploitation and the level of exploitation of these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18069	The word has been made by MP Milutin Svedovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Branislav Ivković, based on the wrong interpretation, and by MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18070	I would only like to answer to Professor Ivkovic that he cannot assess the work of some local self-government. I am responsible for saying that we have finished the apartments of the Solidarity Fund, which the previous government in Gornji Milanovac has begun. We made eight apartments ourselves. We are a small municipality, but we've singled out so much money, and we've even singled out 0.7%, and the limit is to one of those 3.5% on the profit fund. So we're among the higher percentages in Serbia, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18071	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18072	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm glad the current president of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovci gave the information. I am pleased with the citizens of Gornji Milanovac, as well as the fact that the city continues with the tradition of host relations with local self-government, which the Socialists have and how they held. It's a good thing he continued well-tagged. As for the amendments to the Solidarity Fund, we Socialists have asked you from the DSS and you from the DS to precisely specify that the funds for the Solidarity Fund must exclusively go as means to build apartments of solidarity. But you refused, and you let that lander come to mind. It is fortunate that in Gornji Milanovac it continued as before. Mr Jovanovic, as far as the apartments in Belgrade are concerned, you ask those who were in power, which you, as representatives of so-called. An independent student protest, and now you're the vice president of the party, so independent, brought to power in 1996. Ask them, because the Socialists haven't been in power since 1996. As for the cement factory itself, Beocin is interesting to you because the Socialists in that city hold power. Don't worry, there'll be smart money used and they'll vote for the Socialists in Beocino again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18073	Anyone else want a word? Minister, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18074	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government did not accept the proposed amendment for the reason that a large number of municipalities cannot invest more significant funds in capital investments, and then an inadequate disproportion would be made. On the other hand, each municipality may, by means of its own act, direct the assets acquired by revenue from absolute rights in capital investments, if necessary. As for the stories of apartments and housing funds, I must inform you that, let's say, the former Justice Department, without any criteria, the former government, has distributed 486 apartments. From that, the minister distributed five apartments to himself, so the other day the president of a home council informed us that the previous minister of justice had arrived, brought him the key and told him - if you give them the key to those in the ministry of justice. Meanwhile, the pipes broke, etc. It's a concern about housing policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18075	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 98 to vote. For 62, against 104 abstentions, there was no 29 vote, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Jankovic to Article 98. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18076	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 98 that regulates the reduced public revenues and I have proposed that in point 7 of sub-points (3) and (4) be deleted, i.e. to delete the "part of the fee for the use of forest land to be leased" and "part of the fee for the use of forests and forest land to be paid for pasture". Based on the lease of land last year, there were 16,000 dinars in the republican budget; 44,000 were collected from pasture last year, as compensation. Total income based on these two points is 60 grand. When we divide it into municipal congregations, it is the income of approximately 500 dinars per congregation of the municipality. When we say part of the income, then we know that it all makes no sense together. Instead, I suggested that sub-point (3) read - "part of the fee for the use of the forest". The part of the fee for the use of the forest is already a more serious income item and it was about 85 million (paid) and about 100 million (counted) last year. If part of that income is allocated to municipalities, it is, however, more significant income, especially if we know that the richest municipalities of forests are precisely the most underdeveloped municipalities, such as Kursumlija, Bolec, Tutin, Depotovac, Ivanica. These municipalities would be part of a fee for the use of forests as a significant income. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that the forest use fee is intended for an extended reproduction of forests, which is in principle true. However, if we know that 85 million were collected last year and only 50 are invested in expanded reproduction, we see that in practice it is not. On the other hand, local self-government has a place to finance, for example, works to raise out-of-wood greenery, build roads, complexes of private forests, build local roads. Foresting, by itself, by attending and working in certain municipalities, makes certain costs to these municipalities, primarily in the area of local roads, and on the other hand local budgets have no income from forestry. In order to correct this obvious injustice, I suggest that part of the fee for the use of the forest should be directed to local budgets as a given public revenue.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18077	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18078	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good amendment. In fact, it provides new funds in the area of local self-government on the basis of which Mr Jankovic mentioned. So I don't think there's any reason why it would lead us to deny our support for this bill's correction. It is acceptable for us and we will support it as a member of the DOS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18079	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 98 to vote. For 116, against 52, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For two, against 152, two abstentions, 35 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic to Article 98. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 98 in which I ask point 6 of subpoint (2) to be deleted, because all of this is regulated under point 1), and it will be governed by law and Article 99. It's a bill of law. The promoter wants to create an illusion that local self-government will have significantly higher financial resources since the time of adoption of this law than it has so far, which is not true. Local self-government consists of funds that are allocated to the Republic, such as: 1) taxes on citizens' income; 2) income tax at a rate of up to 3.5%, except that the number of employees in Serbia is getting smaller every day, and in some municipalities it will be a very small share in financing; 3) property tax; 4) inheritance tax and gift tax; 5) taxes on the transfer of absolute rights; 6) part of taxes on the turnover of products and services, and 8% of taxes on the turnover of products and services provided for the financing of public expenditure in the Republic, achieved on the territory of the municipality, 10% for the city, 15% for Belgrade. We are asking from the SRS that, given that in sub-point (1) local self-government is defined to give part of this tax, and in addition to the tax on the sales of the products achieved on imports, it is deleted in point 6) of the sub-point (2) You should bear in mind that the sales tax is the basic source of the income of a municipality, so why do you limit it with municipalities, you limit it, and you leave a huge part of that income to the Republic. We could turn things around a little differently if we're in favour of decentralisation and strengthening local self-government, so we can leave this sales tax to the local self-government, and let Minister Djelic keep the income tax from renting mobile items, wedding tents, made for roasting rakija, income from face insurance, etc. The fate of this amendment means nothing to you, just as it does not mean the fate of the Serbian citizens, who are looking forward to an extraordinary election to thank you for everything you have done so far, by never allowing them to be deceived again, to deceive them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18081	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 101, the two abstentions, did not vote 34, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Mitrovic to Article 98. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18082	Article 98 regulates the revenues that the Republic makes to the local community. The purpose of this amendment is to fix the law, by writing a new member, that part of the compensation for environmental pollution remains owned by the local community. Since environmental legislation reforms are under way, we are convinced that pollution as a problem of local communities must be treated and that the revenues taken by the local community must remain on its territory. Given that polluters are not only Belgrade's problem, but also the local population's problem, and that the problem of Beocina, Pancheva and other areas cannot be solved from the Republic, we suggest that some of the revenues remain owned by the local community. This was also supported by representatives of other parliamentary groups, and I would ask this parliament to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18083	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18084	This amendment should be accepted and we should not take into account the government's reasons for not accepting the amendments. In fact, the government said the amendment should not be accepted because it is being prepared or a law on the environmental protection system has already been prepared, so it will be regulated. Let me remind you, you had the government's answer for concessions when local self-government signed a deal that part of the income should belong to it. You have again stepped on the government's position with the majority of votes, determined that concessions as they are within the law will also belong to the municipalities. Here you can vote for the proceeds to belong to the municipality, and let the law determine how and how much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18085	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18086	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18087	I ask the MPs that the National Assembly, however, declare itself, since the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept it, so I am putting the amendment, which was accepted by the Government, the parent board and the Legislative Committee, to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 125, two, four abstentions, were not voted 54, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Milutin Svetović. Sorry, MPs, MP Goran Ciric has withdrawn his amendment if you are not informed, sorry. The word has a folk MP, Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, in the current Law on Local Self-Government, the means of taxing traffic above the annual volume laid down in the law governing the annual participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and the volume of funds for the conduct of the works of municipalities and cities are transferred from the units of local self-government to the account of the budget of the Republic. This solution unnecessarily leads to opposition and dissatisfaction by local authorities, which feel as if their funds have been denied or become insufficient to carry out their original and trusted tasks. The existence of this solution and the proposal for a law on local self-government is incomprehensible, especially if they are made available in the light of the modern models of measurement and determination of the fiscal capacity of taxpayers, and hence the units of local self-government. By applying the model of distribution of sales taxes and income taxes, the so-called "laws" are created. surpluses which are poured into the Republic's budget, which are primarily the result of inflationary influences, while less are the result of a real increase in the volume of funds. The solution proposed by this amendment does not affect the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but allows for a realistic and precise review of the relationship in the distribution of sales and income tax between the Republic and units of local self-government, thus allowing the removal of the negative consequences that the existing model has on the overall financing of local self-government units' affairs and competences, but also on the highly expressed regional and sub-regional political tensions that arise for these reasons. This and the position of Article 3 99. The bill becomes groundless. On the other hand, the criteria, which determine the part of the funds belonging to municipalities and cities, from the sales of products and taxes on profits, are narrowed down. The relevant law provides for additional criteria - mountain and mountainous areas, municipality boundaries and migration movements, and are left out because, as explained by the bill, they are included in the development criteria. The narrowing of the leek criteria is not good, both from the point of view of the national development plan, as well as the plan to regulate national territory, and from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which, through the operational model, has the task of finding and measuring as accurately as possible all elements of the importance of determining the volume of funds and of doing jobs in municipalities and cities. Dear fellow selectors, there are about 30 community presidents here among us. For a year now, this point of the law has been a stumbling block for the discussion of the president of municipalities with representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the Permanent Conference of the cities of Yugoslavia. Once again, I would remind all the presidents of the municipalities, from any party, that, from any political group, we have talked about this all the time and that this is the only solution, when you have a constant percentage of the tax exemption, and you do not have a framework that closes all your incomes on that basis in September and you cannot plan what you intend to do by the end of the year. Once again, please, and I will request a voting list to see how my fellow presidents of the municipalities voted on this, I repeat once again that this was a topic that we discussed for a year in the Permanent Conference of Cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18089	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yes, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18090	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not expect to smile here in the Assembly, but why not. Now as I was coming out of the bench to hear Mr. Martian, I heard a proposal to take a list so let's see who supported this amendment, because you'll admit there's a conflict of interest, and basically it's the paradox of the time we live in because there's no doubt that the advocates of the amendment and this article are actually what would be best in our society. However, I will remind you that during the debate on the budget, we have established an amendment to how the allocation of funds will be made beyond the one established by the 2002 Budget Law itself. It was then agreed that 50% return to local self-government and that those remaining 50% remain with the Republic, since it is more than clear that, in addition to the need for local self-government, there is a need for the Republic to all those and businesses that cannot function on their own without this kind of fiscal policy. So, I don't think we can support this amendment because of this, and with special pleasure, I will take the listing and check the conduct of the municipal deputies, who are also MPs in the Republic Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18091	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18092	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take the list, but they will take it and we will have absolutely who voted. I mean, I'm not going to say what Mr. Salesanovic said, he's been working on that financial part, and I'd more, undermining a new item that's being introduced here as the basis for the return of money from sales taxes and profits, and that's the degree of environmental pollution. What's very important and what's waiting for us in the next period is the fact that the environment was completely abandoned in the previous system, in the previous time, and that it was the one that was always abused, exploited without any control. The local self-government, which was completely disbursed, had no opportunity to work to protect the environment. This amendment provides for an additional criterion relating to the degree of environmental pollution, which should be one of the grounds for the return of funds from sales tax and the profit fund to be greater than it has been so far and that these funds are used purposely to address the problems that some municipalities have in the environment. Of course, this is all compatible with the law on the environmental protection system that needs to be brought in and that will determine which black dots are in Serbia, if it can be said, which are the most polluted and needing greater resources, in order to repair the damage caused in the environment and thus improve the quality of life and the health of citizens. I believe that this, as well as the previous reason for the financial strengthening of municipalities and local self-government, should support this amendment, both realistically and in such a way, truly discharging fiscal and financial power, precisely at the level of local self-government, right where citizens can directly participate and control how power is exercised. In this way, they would contribute to the future by virtue of this law and even some local self-government, a truly local self-government that springs from the will of citizens living in certain municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18093	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18094	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are slowly sinking into a lot of ignorance about what will be applied and where the law will apply. It is true that in this assembly the laws passed by the Constitution of Serbia are made, it is true that the omnibus law on Vojvodina is made up of 25 legislative projects and who knows how many regulations and decisions. We are now coming up with questions about translating into Serbian the Law on financing the functioning of local self-government. Here is listed as an object; there was the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I think it is now abolished, so it is now announced that it will appear and what will the ministry do to protect natural wealth and the environment: is it going to do its job, or is it going to do local self-government? I think that once someone who wants to run the country should solve it, but the essence of being translated into Serbian is the next one -- this law really transfers certain rights to local self-government. There is also a responsibility for the exercise of these rights, and in order to be responsible for the realisation of these rights, they must have money. However, income is limited to one figure and cannot. And now we come to what we Socialists have told you in the Assembly, rights are given, but also responsibilities for the functioning of schools, homes of health and various institutions and what will happen if local self-government, because the poor municipality, in the budget can't raise money for already acquired rights. Then the following will happen -- that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has passed through this law the worst position to local self-government, that it bears the blame for abolishing the health, school and all other important and relevant lives of citizens in this country. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this amendment because our MPs, Mr Jovan Todorovic and others, have submitted a similar amendment in order to strengthen the potential financial local self-government so that it can exercise rights, at least to one extent, because it is obvious that one good part of the right, and tell it honestly to the citizens, will be impossible to execute because the economy does not work if there is no money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18095	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Milutin Svedovic is asking for a quorum to be determined. You suspect there's a quorum? If there's a quorum, then there's no reason to determine the quorum. I'm putting the amendment to the vote and I'm asking the MPs to come forward. For 73, against 71, abstention three, did not vote 39, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18096	Respected Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 99(2), which says that instead of one to five, new indents are placed from one to fifteen, so it is the criteria on which the funds are allocated to local self-government; and this is the following: 1) the size of the local self-government unit; 2) the number of residents - per list; - the increase due to mechanical need (it is clear for many environments that have a large number of inhabitants, which are not officially identified in certain environments; 3) population density; 4) the quality of drinking water; - the risk of the environment of the seas; the number of seas;-species in children; 5) the geographical position; 6) primary and secondary schools - based on the number of students; specific schools; music, ballet, language and others; - the number of schools - the number of children in children's homes - the institution of children's homes - the social sector; 9 years of children's housing - the social population; The draft law sets out five criteria. Many of them are also covered by this proposal, but it is important to highlight point 4) where it is mentioned about the environmental and local environments to protect their environment and encourage controlled or sustainable development. I would certainly point out the fourteenth aspect, meaning the need to invest in local economic development, because I think at this point the biggest problem of local environments is just looking for ways that they can achieve their local economic development. I believe that these are criteria that are likely to complicate the whole planning process, but I am sure that for this period, as long as it takes for the law to come into force, there will be enough time to establish the right of the solution, meaning also in the information sense, and that these criteria will be easy to apply and based on these criteria to establish public spending balances.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18097	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 73, abstention four, did not vote 54, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Branislav Grubački.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18098	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, balcony monitors, I have submitted to Article 99 an amendment requiring the combined criterion to be used in the allocation of funds, means that, with the number of school departments and the number of facilities, there is a criterion for providing funds. Given the white plague, i.e. reduced natural growth particularly present in some parts of Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, some departments are being merged or due to this natural growth, so the facilities in which these departments were located would be left without funds to allow teaching. In my amendment, I say that in point 3 of point 2, instead of "number of primary and secondary schools departments" should stand "number of departments and number of primary and secondary schools" and in point 4) instead of "number of children covered by social care for children" should stand "the number of children affected by child welfare and the number of social care facilities". I think the reson is quite logical and I would ask the government to accept this amendment, as well as the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18099	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the Justice Committee has accepted this amendment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18101	As the committees accepted the amendment before, and the government's representative at the session, this amendment by Parliamentarian Grubaski became an integral part of the text of the bill to Article 99. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted to the 99th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18102	This amendment is compatible with what we have adopted earlier, it would be okay for the status and state of the environment to be a criterion that will be respected in the division of funds and I think it is perfectly okay to accept it, given that it is a category that is very important, given that Serbia is very different in ecological areas and it would be important that those specific zones, where there is a major threat to the environment, be a criterion that will be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18103	The word is made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18104	Since the amendment is indeed compatible with the previously accepted amendment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18105	The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment, i.e. the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal, so I would ask the National Assembly to declare its acceptance, following a statement by the proposing minister, Prime Minister Vladan Batic. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment after the adoption of the proposal's representative, Prime Minister Vladan Batic. For 105, against 9, the abstentions, did not vote 71, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18106	Ladies and gentlemen, the people's emissaries, in this particular article 99, and in 98 and 101, which regulates matter, are subject to public income, look at all those DOS promises of alleged democratisation, decentralisation, but there is only that in the marketing sense, however, when it comes to finance, there is no such thing. When we look at Article 99, we see that a special law determines a part of the income tax, as well as a part of the sales tax. Therefore, the annual amount of funding referred to in Article 1 of these members for units of local self-government shall be determined in accordance with the general balance of public income and public expenditure, starting, above all, from the following criteria as indicated. However, what does not clearly define this Article 99 is that there is a possibility that the unit of local self-government may not achieve funds in accordance with Article 99(1) of this Act. Article 101 argues that everything that needs to be allocated to local self-pouring units is in the ministry, where the minister in charge of finance and economy affairs says he will prescribe the way and methodology for determining the volume of funds within the meaning of Article 99 of this law. What I am on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party has suggested is that Article 99(2) adds "point 6" which reads "immigration movements and geographical positions". The reason for this proposal is that there will probably be a huge number of workers who will be jobless and should be allowed to have a unit of local self-government, which remains without such workers especially in border and underdeveloped areas of income to be developed. The government of the Republic of Serbia has explained that all these criteria are placed at point 5) where the area is development, which does not satisfy all of what I have stated. I think you should accept this amendment, because it specifically refers to border and undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spoke on several occasions about the municipality's problems in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. I got a telegram today, and I want to read it to you: Through public information funds, you are informed of protests by citizens and workers of the municipality's assembly to preserve the municipality of northern Kosovo Mitrovica. Accordingly, we ask you to influence the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Government and President Kostunica to support the people of Kosovo Mitrovica in their recovered demands. We'd like to inform you that we've requested a meeting with... (President: Three minutes and 30 seconds, I would ask you to at least speak on the subject of Article 99, or the amendment, with this violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) What I'm reading is just about a local self-government unit called northern Kosovo Mitrovica. I have one last sentence left -- I am notifying that we have asked for a meeting with representatives of certain institutions, and I ask that, in that sense, in order to achieve a common goal, you personally engage. I have repeatedly quoted these members, and you should not have considered that, and if you hadn't stopped me, I would probably have finished my presentation with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18107	Does anyone else want a word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18108	There are a lot of amendments to this article in '99. They're mostly related. Someone else has imagined a criterion more than another MP, but basically I cannot agree with the government's view that migration movements and the geographical position of the municipality will not be included as an additional criterion, because they can be undermined by the development of the municipality. Or, as the government says in its response - the municipality is underdeveloped because migration movements are expressed. It's going towards a more developed one, so when it already has a criterion -- the development of the municipality -- why introduce new criteria. Since this is about the annual volume of funds, then it was enough to write itself -- development as a criterion. And then you're going to say, he's underdeveloped, so there's no school, so there's not even this, so there's not that either. However, as soon as you start to develop, you need to predict as many criteria as possible to be sure that your conscience is calm, that you haven't shared the funds according to whether the president of the municipality is from your political party or from the one you want to fail, or that you are really looking at the criteria and the means that you share with the citizens in the local self-government unit most needed. With all these criteria listed, and I think we are ready to accept all the amendments submitted to Article 99, there should be another criterion for additional funds for municipalities, which is - whether there is an office in the municipalities "Contact Serbia" or not. Every municipality in which the "Contact Serbia" office has its own needs much more funding. They gave the best space for it, a lot of expensive equipment, and there's a lot of resources being spent on the team. There's a picture every day, and God asks you what these people are doing there and how much they contribute to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18109	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 109, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Radojko Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here, the word is Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18110	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues Radojko Petrovic from Prepolje and I, Jovan Todorovic from Loznica, have submitted this amendment, because we think that the criteria provided for in Article 99 are insufficient to objectively determine the amount of funds which, in accordance with Article 98, should be transferred to units of local self-region or municipalities based on the deduction of part of the income tax and part of the sales tax. We have proposed to extend this number of criteria with a criterion - whether the municipality is located in the mountainous and mountainous area, as is the case with Prepol; how many employees are in the area of the municipality to which these funds are allocated; how many are unemployed in the area of the municipality; what is the general assessment of the economic situation and the extent of the economic activity of the relevant economic indicators in the area of local self-government or the unit concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the part of the income tax, it seems to me that there is nothing more logical than to bring the number of employees in the area of a particular municipality into connection with this volume of funds. Because, of course, the number of employees has the most direct impact on the scale of the funds that can be collected on that basis. On the other hand, those who are employed have a solid obligation to support those who are unemployed. Hence, the criterion of unemployment is particularly important, especially at a time of transition and privatisation, in which it is quite certain that a large number, many say several hundred thousand workers, will be out of work. The mountain-mounted area is also important, although some arguments show, the government is calling for this, that some other regulations are regulated. But, please, being in the mountainous-mountan area means being in more unfavourable conditions of life than some of the other municipalities in the plain. Undeveloped road network, unbuilt telephone network, unbuilt power grid, problems during the winter, when it comes to road cleaning, remote rural schools, with relatively small numbers of students, ambulances in those rural areas, all this is a problem imposed on local self-government. Hence, I think that the criteria of the mountain-mounted area should indeed be one of the relevant indicators, according to which the finance minister, i.e. the Government, or the Republic, will transfer some of the funds based on profits and sales taxes to local self-governments, in order to satisfy the objective and even interest of all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18111	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, against 104 abstentions, there were no 35 votes, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Todorovic submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18112	Ladies and gentlemen, here, that's the sequel. The amendment to Article 100 is, in fact, the logical consequence of what you have not just accepted, but it is quite certain that in the implementation of this law on local self-government, we will come into a situation that these funds, in addition to the last position of Article 99, do not come true in certain municipalities. And what happens then to those responsibilities, which in the future we will transfer to municipalities in the area of health insurance, i.e. health care as such, in the area of education, and in some other areas, which the Republic will transfer to the jurisdiction of the municipalities, which should be financed. If, as we have already said in the previous article, we have insufficiently built criteria for determining the amount of these funds, then the question really arises - will the citizens of the Republic of Serbia be equal in basic rights, which should be achieved in the field of health insurance and primary and secondary education, for example. In fact, this amendment proposes that when appropriate funds are allocated to local self-governments already under Article 99, so part of the income tax and part of the sales tax, then that category or that amount of funds should not be a variable category in the course of the year, but is then, if there is not enough funding in the area of that municipality according to previous criteria, the Republic, therefore the Government over the budget, is obliged to bridge that part of the municipal budget, but up to the level of planned funds in the budget of local self-government for that year. This ensures a continuity in carrying out the activities of local self-government, including those concerning investment in the field of health, education, etc. So, for example, my password center, Dr. Milenko Marin, will be able to get the appropriate funds from the municipality budget for building a gynecological and surgical block; or, say, an economic school in Loznica to get some of the funds to build a gym. In line with the previous decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the determination of the volume of funds for these purposes and for these municipalities, it was known that they would have, for example, a physical hall building. Ten million dinars that year. The budget was reached with 8 million and then the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to make those two million missing funds, but for this purpose, domiciled the local self-government, i.e. to ensure the level of budget implementation based on these funds, to the level planned in the municipality budget, which is again established, as we know, on the basis of previous criteria. I think it provides continuity and security, so local self-government won't go into certain investment ventures or procedures, in which local self-government participates in this way. I think the amendment is logical and I expect you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18113	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18114	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 99, 100 and 101. The bill of law is in a close relationship. If such a bill had been on the agenda of the National Assembly at a time when you were opposition, days and nights, newspapers, radios and televisions would have buzzed, you'd all be speaking against such a bill. This Article 98, which is later discussed in Articles 99 and 100, is actually a sign that there is no local self-government. Because what it means when you tell the local self-government -- the finance minister will figure out what the amount of money that will belong to you is based on two, I'd say the biggest income -- profit and sales tax. That's what it looks like when the law is read in general. That's why he's deliberately a member of 101st was left at the place "so Vlasi can't figure it out". What is the autonomy of local self-government now, when a special law determines the annual volume of funds belonging to a local self-government unit based on these two incomes? Because the Republic of Serbia trusts the municipality's affairs, it must know, when it determines municipal revenues, at least the percentages of the municipality's revenues, and thus, by doing so, the municipal budgets are real. And you will now determine this by a special law, and it will exclusively be the finance minister to determine the methodology and method of determining the amount belonging to each municipality in the Republic of Serbia. And only in case the amount provided for by the finance minister is not completed by the end of the year will the municipality be entitled to additional funding from the Republic's budget, to the amount set by the finance minister. So, where's local self-government autonomy? Now you trust her with the jobs, you give her the number, and how are you going to do that? Or if that figure is indeed a discretionary right of the finance minister, then what do you need the criteria for? What, then, will such criteria adopted by the MPs, when will the minister determine the methodology, the way and the amount of funds belonging to the municipality on this basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18115	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18116	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I believe it is necessary to accept the amendment of my colleague Todorovic, for the reason that the application of this amendment allows for the full execution of all those tasks that local self-government receives by this law. The fact is that this law has given greater scope to local self-government, but it is our opinion that in the economic conditions that exist in our country, unless sufficient financial resources are provided, the content of all the rights that the municipality has received will be unfulfilled, which will have direct consequences for the quality of life of citizens at the level of local self-government. All those rights that the unit of local self-government here has received in the fields of education, culture, primary health care, physical culture will objectively be questioned for the reasons that the economic possibilities of the municipalities are uneven and the municipalities will not be able to exercise those rights. Either the fate of some investments comes into question, or they will question the quality of those services. It is logical for us that the Republic, if by this proposal of the law gives the municipality a commitment, should also establish financial resources for what they are obliged to do. If that is not feasible, then municipalities only get rights without financial resources. So they're getting something called both obligation and responsibility, without real power to do their services the right way. I think it is extremely important that this amendment be adopted. It is also known that statistics confirm that the economic possibilities of the municipality are very different, that we have a municipality where the November average of earnings is about four thousand and something and those in which there are 17 thousand. Anyway, the average is 10 grand. So the economic possibilities of the municipalities are uneven and they will not objectively be able to adopt all these rights. That is why we believe that the amendment of counterpart Todorovic is extremely important, as it will enable municipalities to exercise the rights they receive by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18117	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 100 to vote. For 32, against 105, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 44, out of a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sredoje Mihajlov tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 100a be added after article 100a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 7 against 121, three abstentions, 51 did not vote, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18118	The backbone of your campaign for local elections was that you would restore much of the sovereignty, or economic ingenuity to the municipalities. However, Articles 98, 99 and 100 show that you have no idea. However, I will say something else about my amendment to article 101. In the previous period, we were simply covered by the government's draft laws, which are primarily in collegiate with the Constitution of the State, and then with other laws that treat the same or similar problems. Finally, in the same law, the members of the law themselves are in collegiate with each other. It is amazing that professional services in the Serbian government do not see such things and thus establish legal chaos in the country. A typical example of my claim is a member of the 101st law. Article 101 says, "The Minister responsible for Finance and Economy Affairs will prescribe a way and methodology for determining the volume of funds" etc. Such a defined power of the minister, or such a defined member of the law, is in direct collegiation, first of all, with a member of the 99th law. That member has already defined the method and methodology of determining the volume of funds. Article 99 states that this will be determined by a special law. That's what the legislator predicted. Why, then, is it re-established by the minister, as provided for in Article 101? In addition, these powers are partly, I note, in part, in cohesion and with the budget system law, which we will discuss after this item of the agenda. I hope you've read that bill on the budget system. The government should take care of that and not make a mess in legal regulation. This is a complete nonsense, article 101. That is why I have submitted an amendment to amend the article 101 and reads: "The Minister in charge of Finance and Economy Affairs will prescribe deadlines and the way in which the data in Article 99 are delivered. The bill of law." So, no more than prescribing deadlines and how data is delivered, the minister in charge of finance and economy affairs should not work. I guess the rest will define the law and this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18119	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18120	I don't think the local self-government is a front of the finance minister and that article 99 clearly states that it's the law that determines that, by means of local self-government, local self-government will finance entrusted jobs. Even Article 99 set out a methodology, set criteria to account for the level of income. Why the finance minister? If article 101 had written - the government of the Republic of Serbia, it would have already been acceptable. But why the finance minister? What right does the finance minister have to go so far into 190 municipalities in Serbia, that he determines for them, that he is making them a hat? What if he doesn't do his job right, who's gonna answer to who? I really don't know how the government of the Republic of Serbia works, but does it have any more important job than to determine at the beginning of the year which amount of funds belongs to local self-government. What is more important than the work of the National Assembly and the provision of funds to local self - administration for the tasks it trusts. What else does the Government of the Republic of Serbia - travels through Serbia and paints on TV, makes regulations that hand over citizens to The Hague. Why the finance minister? This is a job for the government, the government proposes how much it will amount; and at the beginning of each year, when they adopt all budgets, there must be a government law to write the amount of funds that will be defined for the purposes of funding trusted municipal affairs. That's why we wrote the amendment. We accept that the minister can prescribe deadlines because he is concerned about drawing up a draft budget law, can also prescribe a way in which data are delivered, but the methodology and method of determining the volume of funds cannot be prescribed by the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18121	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Išpanovich Istvan, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 101. It's a bill of law. National MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic have tabled an amendment proposing to change the title above Article 102. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the representative of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about a title above three members, Articles 102, 103 and 104. The bill, which says - The availability and use of the public incomes of the local self-government unit. The DSS's amendment is intended to add "control", meaning "Availability, Use and Control of Public Income Units of Local Self-Government; the team before Article 103(3) states: "The President of the Municipality shall establish a local inspection and audit service in accordance with the law. "So public income control is also foreseen, so I don't think there really is any obstacle. In fact, this just complements the title and is self-inflicted with content. I'd like to ask before the vote just to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18123	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment to Article 102? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 103 abstentions, there was no 9 vote, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18124	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 102. The proposal for a law on local self-government states: "The unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law, decides on the amount of funds to do its jobs". The amendment of the SRS Article 102 is amended and reads: "The unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law, has a budget showing all income and expenditure". So instead of a sentence -- it decides on the amount of funds to do its jobs, it should stand -- it has a budget that shows all revenues and expenditures. It's obvious that in the whole of the law, you use the term -- the budget of local self-government. It is precisely because of the budget's failure to make the most important decisions, in addition to the statutes, that the government can intervene and disband the assembly. You yourself know that the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr Batic, has repeatedly disbanded congregations, but only in municipalities where DOS did not have a majority. Unfortunately, this is now happening in Jablanic County, elections in Medvedja were called, for the simple reason that the Shipari could re-enter local self-government. Apparently, after Kosovo and Metohija, the south of Serbia came in line. Apparently, Minister Batic is doing his job the way he believes he should. I will remind Minister Batic that there is a budget and final account in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are asking the amendment of the SRS to amend Article 102. In addition, the amount of funds to carry out their operations by the local self-government unit is not decided on their own, but the annual amount of funds belonging to the local self-government unit shall be determined in accordance with the general balance of public income and expenditure, starting primarily from a larger number of criteria. Taxation, these are the following criteria: 1) size of territory;2) number of inhabitants;3) number of primary and secondary schools;4) number of children covered by social care for children; 5) development. These are criteria where the general public income and public expenditure balance is just starting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18125	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18126	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 81. Article 81 says, "The National Assembly sessions are held between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an hour's interruption, unless the National Assembly, exceptionally, decides otherwise for certain days. That decision shall, as a rule, be taken at the beginning of the working day. "Ladies and gentlemen, I announce to you that tomorrow at 10.00am, the SPS parliamentary group, with the support of the SRS and the SS, will ask the Assembly to start work tomorrow at 15.00h, given that the former president of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ Slobodan Milosevic , tomorrow there is an exhibition during the process in The Hague. [[growls]] Surely every citizen of this country is interested in the argument against the genocide charge, given that in a moral and financial sense all this and how it can affect every citizen of this country negatively.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18127	Mr. Ivkovic, I don't know what to say. You've announced you'll be looking for a break tomorrow. Tomorrow, the National Assembly will decide. Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of political belongings, the very beginning of the indictment has shown, at least to us Serbian radicals, that they are being tried by the Serb people. [[GROANING]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18129	Mr. Nikolic, you've been given a word by the Rules of Procedure, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18130	I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18131	There's nothing to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18132	I'm referring to the same member and I'm looking for...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18133	You have nothing to explain, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow whether to take a break or not. Mr. Nikolic, I think now that you've hurt your Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18134	Please, I want to make a suggestion, aman, shut up once. I'd like to propose that the National Assembly vote today on starting tomorrow at 15.00 hours. Why don't you let me suggest and explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18135	You can't suggest, it's proposed at the beginning of the working day, according to Article 81. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18136	I would ask you to read the Rules of Procedure, because it says, as a rule, at the beginning of the work day, and we are now asking that an exception be made and that we now decide. Why would we decide tomorrow, when by 11:30 a session of the National Assembly will never begin before 11:30 - 12.00 hours. Now let's make a decision, and you, by your conscience, vote like that, look forward to what's going on in The Hague, and I can't, I'm sad about the Serbian people; but there are some cheerleaders here who have enough of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18137	All right, what we can do today, we're not leaving for tomorrow. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic's proposal to begin work tomorrow at 15.00 hours. For 49, against 103 abstentions 14, 7 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision rejecting MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Branislav Ivkovic's proposal. We have already made a decision, and the National Assembly has now made a decision. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Živanko Radovanchev. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. () Yes, the Government has accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 61, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 15, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 103. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does MP Zlatan Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18138	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 103. The bill refers to budget users of local self-government units, meaning kindergartens, kindergartens, schools, libraries and other cultural institutions financed by local self-government. The first position of this member explains the way in which budget users of the local self-government unit are required to provide funds in the budget of local self-government, and I do not think the position is controversial. The second position of Article 103 states that the beneficiaries of the funds are obliged to submit, at least once a year, a report on their work, on the implementation of the programme and the use of funds from the local self-government budget, at the request of the unit body. The third position of this Article 103 reads: "The President of the Municipality shall establish a local inspection and audit service in accordance with the law". The SRS has submitted an amendment to this article, to this third position, and our amendment provides for this position to be deleted. What are the reasons? The first and basic reason is that our concept does not involve the institution of the president of the municipality, i.e. it does not mean that the president of the municipality is the executive body of local self-government, but that it is the executive board. On the other hand, paragraph 2 has already said that budget users are obliged to submit a report on their work, on the implementation of the programme and on the use of the budget of local self-government, so that through these reports a certain inspection of their work has already been carried out, a control of the spending of funds provided by the budget; although in this second position, which I have remarked, it has not been defined precisely to whom the report is submitted, whether the president of the municipality or the assembly of the municipality. I think it is logical and normal for the report to be submitted to the Assembly of the Municipality and the Assembly of the Municipality to consider and adopt the report, normally if it meets all the criteria set by the Assembly in front of the users of the local self-government budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18139	I thank the People's MP. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18140	Article 103. The bill made sense while the bill looked like the government delivered it to us, although we thought that by implementing the whole concept, we had even thrown out the office of the president of the municipality, so we couldn't predict that he was setting up a local inspection service and auditing the budget spending. However, in the meantime, you have been amended as some control body, and again, some executive authority has appointed a municipal council, although I suppose it will have to be regulated by the Legislative Committee and that where the executive body is mentioned in the municipality, it will no longer be the president of the municipality, but also the municipal council. But it's not like that; anyway, there's a lot of coordination and harmony here. Since the president of the municipality is no longer the only executive body in the municipality, it is not only his to set up an inspection and audit service for the users of the budget; I think it should set up the municipal council, that means - the municipality of the municipality, since it has chosen the municipal council. This is how the republican government works: we choose the government, the government chooses a commission that controls and controls the budget. We should pass it on to local self-government, that system is good. The only question here is Article 2 because it says that the beneficiaries of the budget are obliged to submit a report at least once a year at the request of the body of the local self-government unit. Do they submit to all authorities of the local self-government unit? We have predicted as the authorities now the assembly of the municipality, the president of the municipality and, as it is called, the municipal council. If they report to everyone, then they should all have the right to control and audit. What does it mean that a municipal authority has the right to submit a report to it, and it has no right to take measures according to that report? According to this, apparently, only the president of the municipality has the right to take measures according to the inspection and audit committee's report. It's going very hard in the municipalities. Imagine the example that we had, for example, in the municipality of Zemun, to address all the confesions of requests for help and then to all registered confiscations in the territory of the municipality of Zemun, in accordance with the number of believers, needs, we have identified certain means, but we really couldn't send any inspection there, or review to check how the church spent the funds we gave her from the budget. There are great restrictions and I think that (accepting the amendment or not) the law is so nightmare and confusing, that from the day of its adoption to the day when the text is ready to surrender to the "Official Messenger" will be at least 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18141	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 108, the abstentions were not, not voted 11, a total of 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The representative of the applicants shall withdraw the amendment. I find the amendment to the 103rd group of MPs has been withdrawn. Also, a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovic, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 104a be added after article 104a. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an amendment that I think everyone will accept from different motives, of course, and I'll finally tell them. Otherwise, it is a brand-new member and reads: "The local self-government unit assembly is educated by a special Committee on Public Accounts, whose members are elected from the committee order, and the chairman is always from the ranks of the opposition. Following receipt of the report from the inspection and audit services, the Committee shall review the accounts and, where appropriate, hear the authorising officers for the implementation of the budget. The right to oversee the Committee concerns ongoing financing and the final account of the budget. The Committee shall report in detail to the local self-government assembly at least twice a year. "The parliamentary control, ladies and gentlemen, as a kind of political control, is a condition without which it is not possible to achieve full and public control of budget financing, primarily control of the work of the commanders in the units of local self-government and institutions that are beneficiaries of the funds of local budgets. I will remind myself that this kind of control exists in developed parliamentary democracies, especially in Britain, also in Norway, Belgium and other countries. I don't think that kind of control will bother us either, especially at higher levels of government. After all, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that many DOS parties in their party or party programmes have written this down; and also those who have not written and corresponded to this amendment - and I return to the very beginning of my argument - because, most likely, because they have not written in their party programme, and have not implemented this way while they have been in power, will remain a majority opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18143	The word is made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18144	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government could not accept the proposed amendment, because this matter is regulated by the law on the budgetary system, which will be on the agenda of parliament. In addition, Article 104a, paragraph 1, is somewhat discriminatory. He says the chairman is always elected from the opposition ranks. Given the opposition's strength in Serbia, it is very questionable whether this provision will be realised in some municipality. In addition, this is not in line with the legal system and constitutional order of this country, because no category is envisaged that determines political membership in any legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18145	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18146	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even with this, for us, a joyful, finding that we will find it difficult to find opposition in certain municipalities that will be able to do this job professionally, we believe that it is not bad for this solution to stand, especially if this solution is not originally our own, but rather a solution from foreign legislation, those homes that have a developed parliamentary system. These are the United States, Great Britain, Norway, Belgium; for example, in Norway and Belgium, the main control institutions of the budget are so-called General controllers and are separated from administrative control, precisely because they are not only controlling whether or not someone under the law has signed the Virmans, or whether they are from an authorised person, but also in some situations the integrity of the means and we are coming into the situation that the opposition can also discuss the celery, and not just whether it is legally available. In Britain, for example, parliament's lower home is educated by a special board of public accounts, chaired by a member of the opposition. So, there are these examples, and it's probably the budget law and budgetary control that goes in that direction, but we don't think it's burned that one of these solutions is part of this law and that it happens again, if it exists in one law, and that the right to the opposition. We need to work on building a parliamentary system where every government will be controlled by the opposition, because there is nothing to hide, and we are all on the same task, we are working in the interests of citizens and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18147	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18148	Well-meaningly, as an experienced man, I would advise Mr. Minister to read carefully all the suggestions in which the opposition is given some air. In the next election, if a major party drags him again, he may enter a parliament and the opposition will be safe, and then he will long for these solutions. That's what I'm convinced of. Mr. Minister, October 5th has passed long ago and the consequences of October 5 are felt at any moment. Don't go out so hard for this pay phone anymore. The ratio of strength has changed dramatically.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18149	The word is given by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18150	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov said that rarely in which city the opposition will have power. For your information, Mr. Mihajlov, the Serbian Unity Party is not an opposition like you were an opposition, that you are only criticising and demagogue statements deceive the people that you are a hard national option. The Serbian Unity Party, unlike you, wherever there are committees across Serbia's cities, helps sports, helps families with three and more children, helps to avoid the Serb people from Cosmeta. And, unlike you, Mr. Dejane, in particular in Jagodina, the Serbian Unity Party does not take mandates from its committees because they do not respect party discipline and what Belgrade says. I guess the councilmen know best what they're doing, because they represent citizens in cities where they're elected, and they don't do what the Central says. Mr. Dean, no more referendums for and against. Now there's the election, and you're gonna have to report your work, what you've been doing, Mr. Dean.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18151	For the replication of Mr. Vladan Batic's statement, not of MP Dejan Mihajlov. So, straight to the replica of the minister. Now the right to a replica has a People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18152	Mr. Markovic is not allowed to address Mr. Batic, so he is talking to me, but that is already his problem. And that's what we need to talk about. And as for how you've done honorably, how you and JUL honoredly ruled this country, how you honorably defended Serbian countries, how you've done your national work together with these left-wing parties, who are international and who don't know the national option, how you honor other jobs, how you supply our military forces and other things, and all this falls into the national question and your strong national sense. Please give us such a national charge and such a national policy of manoeuvre, and that you and such national policies will never be in Serbia again. We finally need one responsible authority, which will know how to put it in certain situations and responsible parties, which national policy will look at in another light, realistically and in relation to the international community. We've had enough of the isolationism, the wars and everything else, where you and those you served led us. Mr. Markovic, I don't think you, like them, have the right to talk to us about how to run the country anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-13-0.u18153	Please don't. There's no basis for replication. He got the president of the parliamentary group right to reply, you're not mentioned. I am putting amendments to the vote to add a new member of 104a after Article 104a. For 68, against 91, there are no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, of 169 MPs. The Rules of Procedure's advertising can only be sought by the president or deputy parliamentary group, and you are not the president of the parliamentary group. This concludes today's work, pleasantly. The session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs will be held at 1800 hours in the hall on the 3rd floor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 122 MPs attend today's session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Stevan Lilic, Slobodan Radulović, Dusan Budisin, Momir Radoičić, Milan Ernjaković, Petar Mišić, Predrag Stojanović, Djordje Čukvas, Branislav Pomorički, Milutin Svetović, Miroslav Martic and Juhas Atila. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I inform you that at this session I am representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the OSCE, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. Before we continue to work on the 3rd item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that tomorrow is the national holiday of the Republic of Serbia - Meeting; this is the day when the first, modern, modern Serbian Constitution, 1835; I congratulate you on the holiday, you and all citizens, and I invite you to attend the small ceremony that is organized by the team at 14.00 hours, in the hall of the Assembly. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (single) The word has a National MP Branislav Ivković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
