ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25331	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have reported that, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I am advertising violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were made yesterday during the afternoon session. I'm getting circumstances, I wasn't there. I was in Despotovac. There are local elections down there, so I was at our presidential candidate's promotion. That's one story, and the other is -- I've been waiting for this stenogram to be finished, to see exactly what it says. I've volunteered to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and Articles 38, 97 and 102. In fact, insulting words were spoken here yesterday for MP Dragan Todorovic and for the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. The president of the National Assembly did not give the right to the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Jovan Todorovic, to respond because he was empowered to this item of the agenda and for all that is happening for this agenda point, and he did not lenient even the measures against the MP who was insultingly expressing himself both on fellow Todorovic and on the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. In fact, yesterday we heard a series of slanders, lies, lies by MPs who were formed by law and by the Rules of Procedure as a group of MPs. We shut them out of the game. They were established here as a new parliamentary group. We ruled them out because of these manners of lies, slander, counterfeiting, insinuation. It was seen the other day what is the essence of their formation -- being a new member of the DOS, being in the Assembly when a quorum is needed, voting, when necessary for some law. All reform of the parliamentary group consists of supporting the government's proposal and is likely not to vote against the government and not hold new parliamentary elections. We heard a funny explanation yesterday, which is that the fate of those mandates is related to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't. This esteemed home has received no position, no decision, no conclusion, or anything from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. There are a lot of laws that apply, so they apply. When the Constitutional Court makes a decision, they don't apply. The extraprofit law applies, regardless of some provisions being disputed or the dispute proceedings are being conducted. You know who the mandates belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25332	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25333	The mandates belong to a political party. This is the position of the committee responsible for this congregation. One more thing. As for the Supreme Court and their alleged decision, I do not believe that any Supreme Court judge will put his status as judge and what he is doing in office of the people who forged the documents, in order to make a decision that suits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25334	You've been given a word based on the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you've used your right to the word that you are in fact using the right to the replica. That's what you did. I didn't give you a warning. So the discretionary authority of the president of the Assembly is to decide who to - after you advertised Article 37 and 102 at the beginning - allow him to participate as a parliamentary group in the work of the Assembly. She's participating, that's Article 37. Article 98. Therefore, it is my discretionary authority. Secondly, you have also violated the Rules of Procedure and I have not given you any measure in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25335	I'm not satisfied, I'm asking the Management Board to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25336	We'll schedule an Administrative Board to make a statement within 24 hours of whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. Does one of the presidents, or deputy MPs, want a word? No, I don't. We continue to work towards the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has been made by MP Bratoljub Janackovic, a member of the DOS-Reform Serbia, and the following is MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25337	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my fellow Members and I, in the analysis of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, in preparation for a performance in parliament, we had many dilemmas and many questions that we wanted to ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Djelic, to explain and answer. From that point of view, the first concept of my speech was the raised dilemmas and the questions I wanted to ask answers to. But with careful listening to yesterday's performance and further explanations by the finance minister and this morning's careful reading of the stenogram, I realized that I had to change the nature of the performance. On the largest number of dilemmas and issues that the New Democracy MP group had, we actually received quality, exhaustive and valid answers yesterday. Some of these diets and issues that we had were related to the following problems: the work and functioning of the public payment administration - we received answers; the consolidation of the vault account and the management of the available funds - and we received additional answers about it and how it will be resolved in the transitional period. Also, where we had the most dilemma, we got explanations under what conditions anyone could have with state money. And on the fourth dilemma we had, and it was about how the state would finance its state deficit, it was responsible -- by broadcasting paper of value and by reducing those risks. So today I want to focus my speech on the other side and give a small historical dimension: in 1878, that is, in 1881, the Kingdom of Serbia also showed its financial sovereignty and broadcast state bonds to cover the state loan and build a Serbian railway. The bond placed on the European market securities of value, thus showing readiness to enter the order of modern financial states of Europe. Her Minister Cedomir Miljatovic, one of the first liberals in Serbia, whose heritage New Democracy wants to inherit, has gained first experience from the state capital market and values charter in France. For the first time since then, one law of the Republic of Serbia regulates the issue and placement of state securities of value, state bonds. There is more to the New Democracy in this act than symbolism. When a man recalls these facts, he is not only aware of the state's modernization on the way to training it to be a service to rebuilding Serbia's capitalist society, but also a feeling of bitterness from 130 lost years, from one law to another; that law, I hope, is today being passed. The question arises where we lost the last 130 years, where all Serbia's financial sovereignty has been spent. For these reasons, New Democracy welcomes the adoption of this law. Unfortunately, the previously mentioned railway built on that basis, based on the broadcasting of government bonds, is in poor shape today. Dear MPs, in the proposals for our amendments, we support the readiness of Minister Finance and Public Finance Managers of the Serbian State to place current surpluses of money on the domestic and foreign capital and money market. We proposed that in order to reduce the risk, it should be envisaged to place it in at least three banks or three types of securities of value. We'd like the government to do this on the basis of a previously defined public list of reference banks or securities of value, some kind of public list of quality. According to us, the risks are best reduced to three places a hundred better than one 300. We also found ourselves eligible and model of a kind of public tender, that is, a competition under which banks and property owners can apply and give conditions for public revenue placement. Our second proposal concerns the requirement to deliver the draft budget to the National Assembly, therefore, the first reading of the budget to begin already in October. Namely, members 26. The budget system law is required by parliament, and therefore also by MPs, to define and generate income for all expenditures proposed by the government alone, and only the government regulates the height and structure of the deficits. It is therefore necessary to establish partnership relations already in the draft, in order to demonstrate the autonomy of the National Assembly in budgeting on time. The third idea and proposal is that once a year, the Assembly is informed of the placements. Dear MPs, the honourable ministers, at the beginning of my speech, I mentioned Serbia's financial sovereignty. At the end of the speech, I would like to propose a conclusion and appeal to the Serbian Government and its finance minister to ensure all the necessary conditions for the transfer of property, equipment, buildings, information network of the Office for Accounting and Payment to the state of Serbia, i.e. the Public Payments Authority. It is the property of the taxpayers of Serbia and they should have it. In these systems, according to me, the state of Serbia has invested more than two billion dollars. The National Bank, as a central bank, should deal with supervision of banking and monetary policy, rather than renting assets, equipment and networks. In the hope that this appeal and conclusion will also be supported by the Serbian parliament, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25338	The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic, I apologize, the minister answered the word, just a moment. The word has Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, well, the minister has given up, the minister has the right to order, as soon as he asks for a word, but here you go. Don't you want one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25339	I'd just like to comment on what's been said. As for the risk of plasma, of course, we are expected to have a much deeper debate on a specific public debt law that is largely under way, so legally, this very important matter will be regulated. Look at the public finances of any country in Europe. They have a short breath surplus, which, if I remember correctly, is only in Denmark and Luxembourg today, and all other countries have deficits. The financing of this deficit, following the implementation of a privatisation programme that will be set with us one moment after the estimated reduction of the inflow of donations and finally after the end, which is inevitable in the next few years, supporting the budget through the granting of these extremely favourable loans to the World Bank for Adjustment, we will, as anywhere in Europe, in all transition countries now, focus on funding the budget deficit through the issue of charters from the value of our country's vault. Therefore, the way in which this deficit is financed should be gradually and increasingly detailed. Also, surpluses; you saw it yourself during budget rebalances that they are not large at all and that they are very short-lived. Serbia's literally budget at the end of the day remains one day with 10 million dinars, the second day with 20 million dinars, and our public finances are in such a state that there are no reserves, so the issue of the plasma reserves today is not significant at this time, in terms of the amount of funds. It's possible to become in some perspective. For this reason, we agree with you and you already have in the Budgetary System Act elsewhere some of the provisions that require it to be done, of course given the reduction in these risks. We will do according to this law and some of the acts that the Government will bring and which will be published. So everyone knows how this very small limited portion of the amount of short-term surpluses is placed. It will become more important in some perspective. The second thing you talked about was what the SDK was, so I guess I don't remember what the name of that organization was anymore, and then the PDO. Indeed, after the accession of the NBJ, we have come to a situation where the issue of showing the balance sheet itself has been disrupted, unlike many other countries, because I do not know any other example of where one large infrastructure for carrying out payment traffic together with the balance sheet of a central bank is. At this point, it must be working on that demarcation. On the one hand, we need to be careful that the central bank has the resources it needs for its functions. That's where I agree with you, just for her functions. So, our central banks, the future central bank of Serbia, and expect it very quickly, early next year, given that that bill on NBJ was not adopted. It seems to me that your parliamentary group has had one number of objections and amendments to that proposed law. We will have to prepare a new modern law on the people's bank of Serbia, and we will look again at that issue of its functions and assets, which it has. Also, and this is connected to this first point, as well as the issue of foreign reserve placements and all transactions on behalf of the state. Again, Serbia's People's Bank, reflecting its autonomy in implementing a monetary policy that proved to be good, when established in Serbia, should allow for greater transparency of the way these funds are placed and the supervision of the nation's bank is strengthened. She's the only one in Europe today who doesn't have any kind of surveillance. There is no council, because the Federal Constitutional Court, acting on the objections of the NBJ itself, decided to comply with the Constitution of the SRJ, where in one member, and I don't remember who, the only governor of the NBJ, decided that the council couldn't continue to function. Hand to heart, he was very troublesome. It had bankers sitting in it, and some bankers had access to information on monetary policy-making at the expense of some others. So the concept itself was very controversial, but we're going to have to go back to that idea that there's a supervisory authority, like everywhere in the world, because there are very important decisions being made. So around the second point, at this moment of demarcation, when the PDO is abolished, we will very carefully defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia. There is no reason for the central bank, tomorrow Serbia, to have some infrastructure that is not necessary for the implementation of what is its key two functions, which is the conduct of a monterano-credit policy and supervision of banking services. I have to say, the third point, a little bit of that, not really about this subject, but I won't mind saying, because you were talking about railways, I can say that one of my favorite readings, when I get there, will be to read a little bit more about parliamentary debates in the 19th and 20th centuries, before World War II, in this home. It is very interesting, and I don't know what year it was in the 19th century, when a very heated debate was held in the Serbian parliament on whether railways should be introduced in Serbia. The big question was, many said it was extremely dangerous for both life and cattle and what would happen. With one vote, the majority were determined to introduce railways in Serbia and from Nis. It's a little bit of a lesson, that sometimes, when introducing new concepts, some new ideas, some technology, we shouldn't succumb to some conservatism at times. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25340	I thank the minister. The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic, and the next one registered for the word is Golub Rajic, a parliamentary group of SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25341	The proposal changes and complementarity of the law has its own good side, which finally the government has figured out to centralise the control of the part relating to the expenditure side of the budget. That is what the government has to do with this proposal through the Public Payments Administration. Second, what is good in this proposal, which the Government expresses the intention here or the good will that in this administration, the newly formed body that will be part of the government, will take over all workers from the Office of Account and Payment, unscheduled, as we understand it. Either it is forgotten to specify it as a social programme or it is understood, as the facilities are taken, the equipment is taken, the inventory is taken. Everything's being taken over, you just didn't write what you're going to do with those who are now working at that accounting and paying office and tomorrow by forming this administration, whether it's going to be extra or, as you said here from the pay phone, take over young, capable people who will place budgets on the stock exchanges. This should be done not only for the sake of us Serbian radicals, but also for the public, and especially for those people who are now employed in the PDO, not to pass as those who worked in Beobanci or other banks, who you shut down overnight and let people on the streets. The next thing, this bill clearly highlights the role of one man, an individual acting as minister; he is, according to this proposal, directly almighty or almighty. Why? Because he will determine who will lead the administration, and the secretive individual will call himself director and serve as director, the minister will overrule the budget allocations. What's good, to go back to controlling these expenditures of the budget, is that the minister himself admitted here that in the final account of the 2001 budget or within the government, the ministries cannot be controlled when it comes to the distribution and spending of these funds. It is now very interesting that the members of the government, or ministers themselves, will file an account and a report on the funds spent, and let alone think that it will be done by the beneficiaries of budget funds that are not directly managed by the Resord Ministry. As for the authority of the prime minister, they are very broad and the first objection of us Serbian radicals to the budget law was that an individual should not be given such authority and so much opportunity, and yet the government controls it, or that the Assembly controls the funds spent or through the report on the final account or the launch of the initiative in the Assembly itself. It's clearly defined in the budget law. However, this supplement re-emerges the solution we have met before. What is interesting, the minister told us a very interesting story as an explanation, which is that the conclusion of a loan agreement and the broadcasting of securities of value to finance the budget deficit will be decided by the government, or by the minister. Securities of value, and these are among other actions, bonds and other securities, which I assume will be offered on the stock exchanges. If you think the ministers will be able to operate on the internal stock exchange, you yourself are aware that of all these stock exchanges only works in one way or another, the Belgrade Stock Exchange. These other stock exchanges aren't operational yet. If you think the ministers are taking part in the world's external stock exchanges, no state has decided to make that kind of budget deficit financing so far in history. Why? Because, Ministers, you can confirm that, and you've seen for yourself in Russia and Poland, there was a similar model of funding the budget deficit in one way or another, it failed, it dragged Russia and Poland into even greater dubiosis and an even bigger budget deficit appeared. Why should we now try or listen in the extreme case of you, try something that proved to be bad and that you ended up with your direct or indirect participation and you yourself checked it out and how bad it is. Of course, I don't want to be so personal and say the consequences you've had about it, but don't offer us what turned out to be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25342	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25343	I'd like to answer a few very important questions, which are being asked here. First, as regards employees in the PDO, and this is pointed out on several occasions, they have more options: firstly, an analysis has been published, one number of perpetrators is very close to retirement and they have reached conditions for retirement or will be in that position very soon - this is the first destination; the second, as you know, if we rank the goals, is the most important thing since January 1st to work payment traffic in business banks, which is all but one easy transition, as all examples in the former SFRJ republics have shown. This is what awaits us, and we can predict that the first few months of next year will be extremely painful, because any change, especially this way, is very difficult. The National Bank of Yugoslavia, as it has informed us, has been working for two years, especially this year on the crossing. The testing of software in banks goes, more banks suggest it, we get the belief that things are ready and I believe that, if they're ready, they don't, of course, delay by not knowing which time that transition. As far as state functions are concerned, a number of PDO executives, especially those who have performed previous controls, will enter the tax administration and perform a more modern control method, not control in terms of the presentation of the counter, the mass of paper and stamping. To simplify, tax returns will have to be made for every company to pay its profits to deliver tax benefits, and that is very important to be clear to everyone, especially to businessmen and to all payers. Just because there's no previous control anymore, that doesn't mean there won't be any control, because otherwise we're going to have broken up in our public finances, and that's why you're going to see this week and in the weeks that are coming this occasion, there's going to be a very intense communication, so everyone knows that they've got tax identification numbers and also what they have to do. It will be the same patterns, which instead of coming to the ZOP counter, they will give it to the local tax office. These people who did this, so I'm going back to your question, they're going to be doing that analysis, and there's going to be people who are going to be working on an analysis of these documents, because they know it best in our country today. But I want to give you an example, which is very instructive; many have said that previous control of the PDO has solved the problem of fiscal control of something that is the backbone of our public finances, if we think about paying off social contributions and income tax after deduction. That's most of our public finances, if you look at it. Now experience, and especially since October 1st, when one centre for large taxpayers was established in Belgrade, through a little more careful analysis of all this, showed that the control of the PDO in many cases was by aggregate, if the mass corresponds, meant the mass of net earnings paid, then how many taxes and how many contributions and in case things correspond then these businessmen would have the opportunity to pay off. But we're entering into something a little bit more that true tax control, which is what these pay levels are and we've seen on some examples, of course according to this law, which may have come into effect on January 1st, a secret part of what is happening until the tax evasion is established; I can tell you some familiar names, it's been seen that the salaries of the executives were incredibly low, around the average of the Republic. It is clear now that the more recognizable not earlier, but the subsequent control of these profits will lead to much more precise fiscal control and I expect that, without an increase in the burden, the payment for contributions will be improved, and we know what is the deficit in the pension system. The second thing, which is very important, was that what was the previous control and the huge flow of information, which these perpetrators had, to my great surprise, was never delivered in an organized way to the Republic Public Revenue Authority itself, so that the financial officers, who would go into subsequent control of some companies, came without information, without any communication that would be organised with the PDO and that's another thing that is being established here. These people, instead of beating the seals on the aggregates, are now going to sit where they should have always sat. In the IRS, to exercise much more precise control and deliver information to their colleagues, who will eventually go to some field headquarters. Thus, office and field control will be much better connected and the quality will be improved. This does not just mean that more taxes and contributions will be charged. This means that when people from the tax administration come to businesses, it's a new relationship, that they will come with some information, with which they will be able to compare the actual situation on the ground; and no, give the books. The next thing you know, as far as the people entering this public pay office are concerned, our estimate is that it's about 850 perpetrators. We also have one number of people going to the banks, so they can run that payment traffic in banks, because our banks don't have enough executives to do that. The last thing, you have vaults, means vaults of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and tomorrow, Serbia, for the delivery of cash. So, in our country's territory, and there are some smaller organizations, the central register, the bond center, some smaller institutions that will grow out of the PDO. That's it and I can say that in the aggregate, I can't guarantee that every PDO executive will get a job, but most of them are taken care of, so there's no cause for concern. We're talking about a few hundred people. At this point, it all ends. We know and we will communicate by the end of the year with every perpetrator and everyone will know, in case you vote this law, who works, where, in which office, who's the boss, who's the equipment he's working with, so that these preparations of course run throughout the year. We came before you to pass the law, so let's start working of course. There's one thing I'd like to conclude, since you asked the question of plasma. As far as placements are concerned, it will be minimal sums, as there is simply no surplus in Serbia's budget now. It's a few dozen million dinars. What's very important and what you've asked as a question is financing deficits, and I wouldn't agree with one thing first, and that's that there's no placement of those bonds on some other stock exchanges. Of course there is, and if you look at the examples to finance some major countries, a large percentage of their securities from the value of funding deficits are purchased by foreign institutions. But that's not our intensity. For us financing this should come and there is great interest today by our banks, by some companies and by one part of the population to buy such bonds. It is not necessary to block the possible purchase of these bonds, but also if you associate with what happened in Russia and then I will end up sending your MP group a postcard from Moscow, when I go there in January to sign a very positive contract that we have between the Serbian and Russian tax administrations, because the Russians have noticed that some of our citizens say they are our taxpayers, and these citizens tell us that they are Russian taxpayers, so since you keep saying I can't go to Russia, I'll get back to you from there. So, in principle, there will be no speculation on these papers, because we simply have not reached the degree of integrity that will allow many international institutions to buy and sell such bonds uninterruptedly. There is no risk that in some capital market somewhere in the world, the bonds of the Serbian vault are devalued and that this is some problem for our economy. It's just not gonna happen. The target market for us is, of course, a domestic market. There is also great interest in the conduct of monetary policy. It's much better that way than at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, because then the credit multiplier is much smaller. In this way, there are far fewer effects on inflation and on monetary aggregates. This is why it is recognised everywhere as an orderly way of financing the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25344	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25345	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, which the Government has proposed to be adopted in an emergency procedure in order to avoid the adverse consequences that could arise unless the Public Payments Authority is established and started to operate as of 1 January 2003, which is to carry out tasks related to consolidated accounts of the Republic's vault, as well as accounts of local authorities' vaults, compulsory social security organisations and all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget funds. The law on the budgetary system passed this assembly in February 2000. It regulates the implementation of the budget, the borrowing, the issuing of guarantees, the management of debt, the management of a consolidated vault account and for the first time, according to that law, was adopted by 15 December, by the budget calendar, the 2003 budget; the truth, to the simple misery, with great trade and proof of our citizenship and the public that this government does not have the support of the majority in Parliament, but that it has become minority and that it is a matter of days when early parliamentary elections will take place. The sooner it comes, the better it will be for the citizens of Serbia. Amendments and additions to this law shall be established by the Public Payments Administration as a body of the Republic Ministry of Finance and Economy, and shall keep records and carry out tasks in the context of the consolidated account of the vault for beneficiaries of the budgetary resources and organisations of compulsory social security. It's a good thing here, not as in other ministries where you start new agencies, from part of the NBJ, i.e. from the Office for Accounting and Payments, you set up a public payment administration, and by the power vested in the new Law on Payments, the conduct of the country's payment operations will be done in a new way, through banks. Therefore, the PDO ceases to exist. This law is the epilogue of the situation. There are only 12 members and not much to talk about, and not a lot of amendments, but there can be some better and more precise solutions. For example, Article 2 regulates the consolidated account of the vault, where it is prescribed who is responsible for the opening of the consolidated account of the Republic and the authorities of the local authorities and that this is managed by the NBJ. It is more appropriate to say "funds to place" than "invest", and this should certainly be in line with Article 53 of this law, but also according to the government's decision on the level of the Republic and by government or executive committee, means local self-government, for the level of local authorities. Also, Article 6 regulates the borrowing of the Republic to finance the budget deficit; the Republic may conclude a loan agreement or issue securities of value, which is decided by the Government. This is undeniable when it comes to domestic loans, but when it comes to foreign loans, it should be decided by the National Assembly. The other day we were able to see what the budget deficit is for this and also for 2003, and how they are planned to cover themselves, especially how much foreign loans are planned for it. Article 8 of this Law introduces a new chapter which is fully governed by the Public Payments Administration: organisation, way of handling, jurisdiction, power of the Minister, etc., not to list everything, but a new member of 73a in Section 2 should be changed and that "the way of education, number, structure, network and part-time organisational units are regulated by the Government act, on a proposal from the Minister in charge", as this is better solutions than proposed in the law. Also in this article, but where the execution of payment orders is regulated, due to current practical problems, it should be regulated that the applicant's request must be written, as well as an explanation of the public payment administration when it does not carry out a payment order that does not comply with the regulations, within three days of the date of submission. Here's another question, Mr. Minister, deserves an answer: what's going on with the National Savings, a bank open at the PDO? Will the Public Payments Authority deposit funds at the National Savings Bank or in some other banks, how, in what way and under what conditions? What will be crucial for trusting and depositing funds to banks and at the level of the Republic, as well as at the level of the authorities of local authorities? Isn't this where the possibility and the space for the abuses are reopened, unintentional and unconscious business? In the end, the adoption of this law will extend this government for a century, but certainly not for long. It's only a matter of days before it lasts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25346	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SRS MPs and the vast majority of the Serbian public have long believed nothing, in fact from the very beginning, since the arrival of Serbian Minister Bozidar Djelic. With the very fact that a few days ago, with the help of certain private persons, he voted on the draft budget for 2003, even more discredited in the eyes of those MPs who might have intended to believe him in what he was saying. Therefore, regardless of the amount of words spoken, how many times has the minister to report and after each MP come out for a pay phone, this amendment to the Budgetary System Act, the law that you voted at the beginning of this year, along with the huge objections of the SRS MPs, raises some very important issues behind which dangerous variations can be manipulated by both the minister and the entire government. That is why I will point out the need for some other members to change in the existing Law on the Budgetary System, except for those covered, and whose objections we responded to yesterday through the presentation, mostly, the deputy president of our party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who spoke about them in detail. However, we warned you, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the year, when the Budgetary System Act was adopted, that it was necessary to accept, out of a few dozen of us, some amendments to Serbian radicals, in order not to open these issues of abuse and not to create suspicion, not only of us representatives in the highest legislative body, but of the entire Serbian public. It is one of these issues that is mentioned here today, and it is about Article 8 of the existing Law, i.e. Article 2 of Position 8, which refers to investment in the domestic or foreign financial market of money or capital, in the manner set out in Article 53 of the existing Law. The amendment we proposed at the beginning of this year, when the Budgetary System Act was adopted, clearly states that the law must be precise and precise and that it must contain only the necessary provisions, which are related to the revenue and expenditure side, for the projection of the budget for the following year, and that the local authorities, regardless of what you say earlier, are minimal funds, are in no way a bank and cannot place budget resources, which are intended to finance the needs of the Republic and units of local self-government. Your DOS government is a lot of things that are in direct contrast with Serbian national interests and with the interests of our banks, financial institutions, however you wish, promotes. One such project, which promotes itself in all mouths and bells by those who bear witness to the enemies of the Serbian people, is so-called. how pompously you called it regional integration in Podunavlje. It's primarily about that, and the most important thing is to place these funds abroad, it's for you abroad, in Osijek Bank. The Western District, through the implementation of the gasification process best testifys, what both the SRS MP and our representatives living in that territory have chosen for the purpose of the contractors, you may think, from Osijek. The funds planned for something so important for the citizens of Westoba County are being placed in Osijek Bank, not in some domestic one; and worst of all, the promotion of this connection in the Danube region does not cover the town of Smederevo at all. And then what do we think next, through the adoption of your domestic constitutional project that you are planning, but I believe that you will not be able to adopt it next year, through further breaking and regionalisation of Serbia -- what damage it will only then cause for the citizens of Serbia and various districts in our country. On the other hand, Minister, you said yesterday that this is something very important, that it is an honor for you to propose a system law, because expenditures are in the budget, and the 2003 Budget Law was made under the current Budgetary System Act, transparent for both MPs and the general public. We have been proving to you here for days, and in the best way done by the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, that it is not transparent at all these public expenditures in the huge 2003 budget, for the simple reason that you have 7.5 billion planned funds for some special contracts, 1.5 billion for travel expenses, etc. And we don't even know how those funds are going to be spent. You just said that you could go to the Russian Federation; of course, when you have ministerial immunity, and about what you've been doing from the position of associate Anatoly Cubace, I wouldn't do this opportunity. But as far as this transparency is concerned, we must first of all warn you of the fact that we are going to point to the public constantly everything you do. And in order for you to be one responsible authority, which you have not, and you have shown many times so far, you should accept the suggestions of Serbian radicals. First of all, you did not accept our amendment, in which we asked in the creation of this Bill on the Budgetary System that the National Assembly, except that according to the Rules of Procedure, can request one annual report on the work of the Government, should control you directly and your associates in terms of budget implementation at least twice a year, because long ago neither we nor the citizens of Serbia believe anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25348	A representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25349	Dear Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in February of this year we adopted the Budget System Act. In December of the same year, so today, we are discussing amendments and additions to this law, and thus confirming what we, as socialists and MPs in this assembly, proposed to the Minister in February, and not accepted, that it was then to be accepted. It is good that the minister has served some SPS amendments this time and has proposed appropriate changes accordingly, but it is not good that he has not joined more comprehensive amendments to this law, because objective reality has also imposed this. The provisions that are proposed today as changes and additions and for the SPS are logical and realistic, but they are somehow written in a rogue and such language that, without reading, they are often difficult to understand accurately. This is especially true when it comes to the consolidated account of the vault and when it comes to the possibility that extra funds in the vault of the Republic or in the vault of local self-government may, as it is said here, be invested in the domestic or foreign capital market, or money. We thought back then, but here the minister comes to find out, that's why they're here, for example. Reports filed, overlapping, and even criminal charges, due to some responsible persons in certain ministries or funds, thus placing extra funds in those institutions, that it is logical and now he is trying to regulate this law. At the very least, there is a question of the justification of those offences or reports filed against the responsible persons. Secondly, here too, he insists on some sort of in-coherent right of responsible persons in the authority of the administration, in charge of finance, to place, or invest, funds. However, it is said that the minister, or the person authorised by him, may have cash in the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, with the exception of his own revenue under Articles 4 and 2 of this Article, as well as for which, under a specific law, or international contract, the purpose that restricts the use of those funds is to invest on the domestic or foreign market of money or capital, in the manner set out in Article 7 of this Act. This really raises the question, which Mr Tomislav Nikolic asked yesterday - how Article 7 or Article 7 of this law's position can apply to loans, because it said that it respects some principle of financial security or avoiding financial risk, but does not refer to the granting, or investment of funds on the market, but rather to the conclusion of a loan agreement. I think, Mr. Minister, you're going to have a problem applying this attitude to Article 8 in the section relating to the consolidated vault. And one more thing, why is it the minister or the person he has authority over, not the government's decision? Why would the minister now assume on himself and the obligation, and if you want responsibility in this part, and objectively need to address any surplus funds, although he himself thinks that this will rarely happen, still the government decides, thus eliminating all possible objections to any speculation in these affairs; this especially when it comes to local authorities. It said that the local government authority in charge of finance will conclude a contract with the minister on the investment of funds in the consolidated account of the local government's vault. But it was previously said that, also, the local authority of the administration, responsible for finance, that is, the person who powers it, can invest money. For me, it's a controversial notion of investment, Mr. Minister. Under the word "investment" I mean that some financial resources can be invested or invested, but they mean a significantly longer period of vomit to whoever invested. Here, obviously, it's not about long-term placements, because it's quite certain that we won't have such a chance to invest in the long term. So I didn't quite understand your stubbornness in not accepting the change in this part, which suggests that the word "invest" be replaced by "place". I think it's an appropriate situation that can really happen to us in our financial life. Article 6 states that the Republic may conclude a loan agreement or issue securities of value to finance the budget deficit. That's attitude one. So it is not disputed that we will have a budget deficit for the longer term. That's quite clear. We had a deficit in both the past and the previous budget. It's a sad fact that we're going to be facing for a long time in this country's financial life, especially as long as we're doing what we're doing right now. But it is controversial. You see, we've had a solution so far that the minister is deciding on loans and broadcasting securities of value. It is now proposed to be decided by the government. It's something between what the Socialists suggested in February of the month and what we've had so far. If we had said, why would the minister decide on loans and the issue of securities of value, from which we will finance the budget deficit? Why wouldn't the government do that, as an authority responsible for this parliament's overall functioning of the state, even in the area of finance? The minister only partially accepted the remark and now says - that will be decided by the government. We support it. But we wonder if it's okay for the government to decide both domestic and foreign loans. We have proposed that the government not be in charge of foreign loans, but this parliament, because the issue of sovereign debt to abroad, I am quite sure, exceeds even the constitutional powers of the Republic government. It would be most logical if this parliament discussed it in a comprehensive manner, considering it, so if the parliamentary majority decides that the country is in debt with international financial organisations or in any other way, then we will go in this way to finance the budget deficit. So it is not just enough that we adopt the budget in one way or another, in which there are items that objectively have a deficit and how this deficit is now being financed, but we have to go from case to case to case that we consider each situation, as we have had examples of considering the Law on the granting of counterguarantees for the duties of EPS, railways, etc. Why would they leave the story of a few billion euros or dollars to the government? I don't think the government's answering that either. The third moment, which comes out here, is the moment we're completely agreeing with. It refers to a number of PDO professionals moving to a newly organised public payment office. It is not good that we did not explain the proposal for this law we had fully defined information about what would happen to other workers in the PDO, how many would be transferred to the tax administration, how many would be transferred to the financial police or to some other state bodies and thus resolve their working-social status. The particular question is, have we come to this completely and are we ready as a state to transfer payment traffic from the PDO to business banks? The minister himself speaks of it in a way that we have a lot of reservations as to how we will transfer the consolidated vault of local self-government to business banks and what business banks are trained to carry out the financing of local self-government to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25350	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25351	I'll only use a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25352	You're finishing the first part?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25353	I will continue, therefore, this second part, since I know we need to finish this work today. Are we prepared, Mr. Minister, to risk so much and to transfer the account of the republican vault and the account of the local self-government vault to business banks? By what criteria are we going to choose the business banks through which we are going to make payments? I am fully convinced that it has been premature since 1 January 2003, with payment traffic, to move into business banks. I am fully convinced that, even in the conditions in which we have good business banks, we can have a better way of transferring financial resources than we have so far, when it comes to the PDO. I know from experience, and I assure you that the PDO, the fastest organization in the world, has transferred financial resources from one user's account to another. It only took a few minutes. We know from experience that in the world, all business banks, even when they can transfer those funds, usually keep them at least 48 hours in their account. It's the banker's account. He's not at all controversial. But it is disputed from the point of view of those whose money needs to be transferred, and by doing so, to settle some obligations, to get goods, etc. It's a dispute for me, Mr. Minister, especially since we have such a banking system that we can't possibly say is consolidated. Although, I remind you, gentlemen, in a memorandum on the 2003 budget, the minister said one sentence that was ungrabious to me, but it did reflect the essence, which is that the consolidation of the banking system began by shutting down four of the largest banks in Serbia. Can we talk about the banking system that way, consolidate it by shutting down the biggest banks, and then the payment traffic in 2003 we want to transfer to some other banks, which we don't even know how objectively they are? Or what kind of business banks are these? Please, I heard on TV the other day, and I assume that the information is correct, that Delta Bank has taken over a number of employees from the Vozhdovac PDO, from some other municipalities, etc. And I'm asking -- is there going to be payment traffic in Delta Bank for the budgets of these municipalities from which she took over workers, I suppose, and property? The minister says they have not taken over the property, but also the fact that they have taken over employees of the PDO who will work in the Public Payments Administration, morally commits to whose money they are, to entrust payment traffic to that particular bank. That's why I think these amendments, which have been submitted in that direction, need to be discussed publicly, through a tender or by collecting offers. Of course, we could talk about this subject both long and wide. I suppose Mr. Djelic will react to what I was talking about. There's one thing we'll definitely agree on. The debate on the budget and all the laws that are related to the budget is always interesting, perhaps most interesting. Finally, the country from which the minister came, so France, is probably the first country to introduce that budget story. As far as I know, a budget in French means a bag, and it's leather. However, I do not know whether a woman or a man, but the French are the first in the world to, even in 1806, introduce in their financial legislation something that Mr. Djelic, through changes and additions to this law, tells us today. Therefore, I conclude; yes, we will celebrate for almost 200 years in two or three years from that moment, when we first talked about this in this way, although our minister likes to say that all the laws he proposes for the first time are in history and so on, and they are not for the first time in history; simply, we sometimes prescribe or take over legislation from other countries, and the minister has a problem that he thinks in French, talks in Serbian, so I have the impression that he also participated in formulating certain provisions in this law, and therefore it is a little harder for us to understand these provisions written in such a language and such lengthy inaccurate sentences. I believe that there will be some changes in this law, of course, when the minister realizes the full reality of Yugoslav, above all Serbian finances. And at the very end, it would be logical that if we were to tell this whole story in one context that should be very professional and practical, that today we had a agenda and debate on the draft law on the National Bank of Serbia. We have a charter that we will certainly adopt very quickly, unfortunately we will not have the right to make amendments to that charter, but it is quite clear that in the future, in some state with Serbia-Montenegro, we will also have the National Bank of Serbia. It raises the question why we haven't gone to meet this event, why we haven't verified that reality that exists today in Serbia-Montenegro's relations. The fact is, there is a currency of the euro, here a dinar, is the fact that the National Bank of Yugoslavia and functions as the National Bank of Serbia. Why, then, did we not define ourselves as a government and finance minister as a variant and as a solution that, as early as January 1, 2003, we have the National Bank of Serbia, in which the accounts of the Republika Srpska vault would be consolidated, consolidated accounts of local communities and local self-government. I think we had this to avoid in the future many problems that will practically happen to us in implementing the Budgetary System and Budget Act and these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25354	Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25355	Short to answer some very informed questions, I may say. First, I don't come from France, but from Belgrade, I was born at Dragisa Misovic's maternity home, and NATO bombed him, so this is my country. The other thing is, the French have one of the best vaults and they, like many others, have helped form such a practice; you are right that there is a risk that with the transition of payment traffic to business banks, what was one hybrid institution, which has simultaneously performed as state functions, as we see on both the income and the bulk of public finances, and which has been doing what needs to be done today in the tax administration, on the one hand, but especially here in this public payment administration - it is payment traffic within the state. It is the radio PDO, but also the payment traffic for the economy. Of course, there are deep reasons why the Federal Assembly started this year or at the end of last year, I don't know exactly the date, I don't remember whether it was December 2001 or January 2002, I think that this second date, mostly passed the law on payment traffic that cut that dilemma you were talking about. We are the only country that has this former SDK, that is, the PDO today, and one of the problems that exists is that, on the one hand, if you have this hybrid institution, you have the possibility of a great control on the side of the state, not only in terms of the possibility that we have public finances that are arranged in a transparent manner, but also direct insight into every second of what anyone pays, in which way and where the account is. I'm not saying that this has always been abused, but to be realistic, it has been abused at one point by arbitrary blockades and possible expression of the political power of the state over natural entities through one such institution. Therefore, in the light of the sharing of the smooth functioning of the economy and of the state functions, it was cut down by the law voted by the majority in the Federal Assembly at the beginning of this year. A decision was made that Serbia, as well as all other former republics of the SFRY, would move payment traffic from the PDO, the ZAP, but would have been called in various republics after the break-up of the SFRY, to business banks. There is a risk that business banks retain money in that payment traffic ; it has been good so far, if you will, because it was like a hybrid and state institution, it did not keep money in accounts and it was quickly implemented. However, there is already a question of competition between banks and the very interests of businesses that they are very careful to monitor what is happening to their accounts and payment traffic in banks. So there are purely commercial conditions and competition that must lead to it not going from one good system to one much worse. The last thing I'd like to say from what you've been saying is that you're not thinking about some seniors on a long-term basis, but in the very Budgetary System Act, you have other members that limit the way, if you can place it. We also see here in these members that it's out of the question that it's being placed in some stocks, something long-term. Of course, there is talk here about very small-time placements that local self-government and the state of Serbia can place. Finally, as I've already mentioned twice, so I won't do more than four times, this will be the third and last time, that this is one matter that has yet to develop in us. It is worth it to me, and a little more than one chapter in the Budgetary System Act, let what, as far as debt, guarantees, placements, what remains in the Budgetary System Act, be the basis for another law that will be specific to that, which will very precisely edit that matter. Expect it to be ready at the same time or not so late after the adoption of that, that is what we have mentioned, of course, the necessary new law on the National Bank of Serbia, and I do not agree with you there, because according to it, these amendments and additions provide that this system of consolidated accounts of the vault be with the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and tomorrow Serbia, and through the Constitutional Charter, will only move to the National Bank of Serbia, as the successor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. In this way, the system will allow payments within the state to be not subject to fees to banks or even fees to be issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the tariff-rate has already been published, charged in payment traffic between banks and between that account, a consolidated account of Serbia and other banks. I hope I've answered some of your questions; that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25356	It's the Rules of Procedure, isn't it? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25357	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, for the sake of the public and in the interest of the truth, I am warning of a breach of Article 100(1). The Rules of Procedure say that the dignity of the National Assembly must be respected here. The law on the transfer of payment traffic to banks was not passed last or this year as the minister said, he was brought to insisting on banking lobbys at the end of 1997 or early 1998, I'm not sure, you won't mind. Its application has been delayed several times by law in the Federal Assembly, do not move your finger, and during that time you were in various world countries. So his application was only delayed several times since these same lobbys weren't ready to accept traffic, payment traffic, they didn't even have exposures in municipalities, especially in small municipalities where it didn't even pay off. And even then the SDK, and the SPP, and the PDO, wasn't weak enough and sickened enough to take away that function that he could do extraordinarily, which he can and now extraordinaryly do, you won't say it, has the best computer system in the country and information flow per second. It's just for the truth. Bank payments go from January 1st to insisting only two banks, Commercial and Delta Bank, may also be trained to take part, the crumbs of that traffic, but you're all, not you, your predecessors who were socialists, did it, but it was about the individuals who took the money in the pocket, they only did it to insist on two banks, and you've now accepted it and taken over it. The payment system we had, where luck would be if it worked like that in Western Europe, that the moment you had the funds you had at your disposal. This is what my colleague Todorovic said well, and now it will be two or three days of keeping the money. I'll ask you what business entities will do when the bank isn't liquid, when the bank doesn't have the funds. One more thing that is in this law, I don't know how you mean to implement it, I don't agree with the predecessor that it was necessary to form a people's bank of Serbia while we're still in Yugoslavia. As long as there is a grain of Yugoslavia, we shouldn't act like someone who doesn't care about Yugoslavia. I'm also interested in this Yugoslav property attributed to the National Bank, this payment traffic of ours, what do you mean by this law unilaterally to confiscate from Yugoslavia, although the constitutional charters written by these semi-written ones are waiting for you, and there will only be a distinction and division.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25358	In fact, this was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the use of the right to replication, which we will punish in the future. The word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) It says that the people's emissary is obliged to tell the truth. Find me that member, then call me back, find me where it says he's talking. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Article 100 and 101.) A 100th to respect dignity, and you did not respect dignity by... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Just get the truth...). And when you're not telling the truth... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: It is not yours to assess whether I spoke...) ) He gives me the right of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, gives me the right of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Only the Administrative Board can assess. ) National MP Marko Culibrk is not present. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how many more yesterday the assembly majority adopted the Budgetary System Act, which we, the Serbian Radicals, then characterised as a law that looks more like an economic textbook than one law, because there is no fundamental feature of one law, that it is clear, precise and that it contains only what is necessary. That's why I'm surprised you're looking for an amendment to this law today. One of the reasons I see from the law is the establishment of a public payment administration, because the law on accounting and payment ceases to exist on the day of the application of this law. Otherwise, the finance ministry should also take over this public administration, equipment, items and archives of the current accounting and payment service, and as the law makes it clear, employees, but in line with the organisation and systematisation of the ministry, which means a limited number. Then it should be made clear that many of them in today's PDO will be out of a job. In addition, the minister said here in his exposé that the public pay service will be funkcoinising in the territory of the future union of Serbia-Montenegro. Well, I ask him a question, how will it work when the role of the NBJ is in constitutional law, or in the law implementing the constitutional charter of the basic stumbling block; when there is no single monetary and financial market in that future surrogate state in the proposal itself? In addition, the minister had one unpleasant experience in the 2002 budget rebalance. The law has fallen in the Assembly. I noticed that the minister was scratching his head uncomfortablely, that he was pale, because he knew what was waiting for him unless the post-festum assembly verified the availability of money this year. That is why I ask myself, Minister, how is it possible for you to re-propose us in this law what is written in Article 8, which is that you assume on yourself such responsibility and authority, that you can use money in a consolidated account of the Republic's vault to place on the foreign and domestic financial market of money and capital. That means you have to have a broker. How are you going to choose him, we don't know that. What happens is that the stock market cracks, as the jargon says, what happens if we run out of these people's money and who's going to answer for it? With one of my amendments, I have suggested here some symbolic criminal punishment, counting on you to avoid responsibility, to transfer your powers to another person, because the law gives you that possibility. I see that the Legislative Committee has rejected my amendment as incomplete, which absolutely cannot and is not in the power of the Legislative Committee. There's obviously nothing here that can do. Fortunately for you, the budget rebalance was passed by some kind of parliamentary majority, such as that. Madam President of the Assembly abused its function, so she again put to the vote the draft budget rebalancing law for 2002. What's going to happen, Mr. Minister, and I'm seriously worried about you, because I'd rather you spend the rest of your life on the Azura coast than in Zabela. That is why I would well-intentioned suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure, delete this Article 8 and then eventually return it to the Assembly for consideration. I would like you to answer one practical question, who will be the legal follower of the current PDO and whether you are able to give an answer at this time, since there are disputes of natural and legal persons with the PDO, and we are wondering, if that one party gets the dispute, from which they will be able to collect any damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25360	The word has a folk envoy Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25361	I'm sorry, how much time is left for the MP's group, so I don't go too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25362	The SPS parliamentary group has 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25363	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you're in a hurry, but you'll have to have a little patience, given that last time I had 60 seconds, thanks to the restrictive provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you brought yourself. So last time I spoke full 60 seconds, and now it's going to be a little longer. For the second day we are here, thanks to the very educational approach of the expert group within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, normally under the authority of the DOS. Who knows which way we're discussing the laws we adopted a few months ago and trying to come up with good solutions, we're trying to point out what's negative in those laws. However, the DOS party directives were such that you were not willing to listen to what was proposed by the opposition and what by those who appear to be opposition. In February of this year, we adopted a set of economic laws, the Budget System Act, which today, after 10 months, is experiencing its changes. Why? Probably because experts from G17 plus, the governmental NGO in Serbia, did not remember in time that the Budget System Law should, in the framework and form in which it was adopted in February this year, include provisions concerning better control of the way the funds will be available in consolidated vault accounts. Now after 10 years, during this in vivo experiment being conducted over Serbia by who knows who in this country has left some of their exhibits to bring us good, and about how well they've brought us, we all know very well, and I'll say a few examples later, we're not rushing anywhere today. So the experimenter didn't remember in time to take care of the PDO, the way the funds of consolidated vault accounts will be controlled ten months ago. For this reason, for the second time, we have been here in the congregation for two days, and before I know how much we have discussed it, we are trying to discuss what secrets these are and what ways to make these resources available to us. They came up with experts from the government, G17 plus or somewhere else. What did you say? Don't I get it? Then when you have the decency not to throw yourself out of the bench, you have this pay phone and you have the time available to your MPs' group, go to the pay phone, and say what you have. If you can't tell, that's your problem. The amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia to the opposition in this House were used to end some of the set of justice after 10 months, so you presented them as a proposal from the government; I will remind you that, as you do now, you, DOS, have appeared as the legislator, and after ten months you appear as the promoter of the amendments and the addition of the same laws that you have passed. What's that? Were these laws good or are you own in this way admitting that you are unable to make a good law? Then at least a little less ossions and a little more understanding about what the opposition is well-advised for you. I do not know how the situation will take place in other fields, but with regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the budgetary system, the tasks that are being placed under the authority of the vault, which are being carried out for direct and indirect users of the Republic's budget through a consolidated account opened by the minister, or local administration body, there is an interesting situation. In this law, the establishment of the Republic's vault, i.e. local authorities, shall also regulate budget implementation, borrowing, guaranteeing, debt management, budgetary accounting and reporting. What's most interesting is that eight or ten months ago in the debate on the draft budget system law, we highlighted one negative line, which is giving over-authority to the finance minister and to that person who has the authority to dispose of funds, as well as at the level of local self-government, local authorities responsible for managing finance. As stated in the draft law on the budgetary system, and we have commented, so in Article 5 of the law, we said that the position of 5 gave a lot of authority to both the Government and the competent executive body of the local authorities, which in the course of the year can dispose of the funds until the end of the current year, in particular that the payment is neither possible nor limited to the amount expressed in the budget. In this respect, it is said that the minister, or the person who is authorised by his authority, in the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, other than his own income under item 4 of point 2 of this Article, as well as for which in a specific law, that is, the purpose established in the international contract restricting the use of those funds is to invest in the domestic financial market of money, which is also the right of the local authority of the administration to finance, i.e. the person authorised by him. For the second time, we ask whether this is an adequate solution and whether one person, whether it's a member of the government, which is a minister or a person who he's authorized, should have such broad powers and whether in this way certain abuses may occur to which, I remind you, this country is not at all immune. Therefore, because of the creation of systemic solutions that can prevent possible inconveniences related to the abuse of powers under this law, the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia is that we should find such ways to control the work of persons who are authorised to dispose of funds from a consolidated vault account, so that at any moment we can have insight into the availability of these funds and practically in a way that is known everywhere in the world, and that is - all in public view. It may be necessary to provide that these decisions are being verified in local representative bodies or in the representative authority of the Republic of Serbia, therefore in the congregations. We do not dispute the rights of ministers or persons authorised to dispose of funds from a consolidated vault account to propose a way of investing these funds, however, it is really important and useful to have a representative body or assembly in place to pre-warning possible abuses. Also, it is one way to prevent the self-will of the executive government, which is obviously too large in this country, which cannot contribute to the development of democracy and which in the system of power-sharing clearly says that here in Serbia, from coming to power, executive power is an entity that does everything, except it does not decide whether it will rain. In my further presentation, I would refer to more or wrongly paid or charged budget revenues. Therefore, if more current revenue is charged from the debtors, or if the basis for the payment was wrong, a refund should be made in accordance with the law governing the payment of public revenue. Reimbursement of these meetings shall be carried out on the burden of the payment account of the current income; however, a question or problem arises, what if there is not enough funds to make a return and it is the current revenue, which in general belongs to the budget of the Republic or the budget of the local government, i.e. it is shared between the federal budget and the budget of the Republic or between the budget of the Republic and the budget of the local government. The newly formed Public Payments Administration is obliged to transfer the amount of funds to the obligor, the relatively prescribed user's participation in the distribution of the current income, to the payment account of the public income. The draft law therefore does not define the time limit within which the payer is required to transfer the amount of funds to be returned to the obligor. In the event that you have ripped a little more from taxpayers than is permitted under the law, it is not defined by the proposal of this law within which time you must return what you have illegally taken from people, which they have the right to possess. Since he's been very busy lately, the minister hasn't been listening to what's being said from this pay phone, and he proved it yesterday when a full 10-15 minute colleague who is no longer an MP from this pay phone spoke about a completely different law, the Law on the Participation of Local Self-Government in Transport, Municipalities and Cities. Come on, Mrs Natasa Micic, who was then not the chairman of this assembly, may have been a little more tired, perhaps had some other problems, did not pay attention to what the speaker was saying, as it does zealously when it comes to the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs or opposition MPs. But also Mr. Minister did not notice that the speaker has been talking for 10 full minutes about the law on which the debate was concluded, so he has proved once again that he is very often here as promoter of his programs, whether his question is, rather than in the capacity of the one who should take care of how people's money is spent. Also, the minister warned us earlier that in the far 19th century, after a very heated debate in parliament, with one vote, a decision was made to introduce railways into Serbia. I would remind the minister that the introduction of the railway into Serbia was foreseen by the 1878 Berlin Treaty and that the Serbian assembly is asking just as much as we are now wondering about breaking up the federal state or some other important issues that are being resolved absolutely beyond our will and beyond the will of this people. (President: I ask the MP to return to the agenda subject, since in his performance he also shows an extraordinary perception of other people's mistakes, not to apply them in his own performance. So, the topic of the agenda - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. Here you are, with 30 seconds longer at your MP's disposal). I thank you for your correctness. So, the next set of problems about this amendment and the addition of the Budgetary System Act, which I would like to say more about. In addition to the provisions relating to the investment of funds, which may potentially appear as a surplus in consolidated vault accounts, we need to pay a little more attention to how these laws empower entities to borrow these consolidated vault accounts in domestic or foreign financial organisations. In fact, I'm a lawyer, not an economist, but it's really very important to look at how in the system the division of powers is determined that someone in the name of the government or in the name of the people owes that same people from whom the funds are being allocated to fill the budget and who has the opportunity to do so on behalf of the people. This is where the minister is supposed to do it. Our proposal is not only for it to be a minister, not only for the government, but for both domestic and foreign financial organisations to be consulted by the Assembly, and for representative bodies to be consulted, as the only ones who can make decisions of such weight. So, this is also about another case of leverage of the executive government compared to the legislative one. This is about allowing the self-will of the executive authority and using very broad powers of the executive authority, who knows why. For example, I'd like to list the final session of the Pirot Community Assembly. Minister, you were at the Pirot on Saturday. On Monday, a session of the Pirot Municipality Assembly held to rebalance the 26m dinar budget, of which 40% was made available to the Executive Board. So full 10 million. The executive board will dispose of funds by likely covering some of the city building land fund's financial marifetluke, which has led to the fall of the pyrotical government and caused by the former director of the City Building Land Fund to resign and even resign from his post at the City Building Land Fund. It's just one example of how abuses can occur at the disposal of funds from a consolidated vault, which could happen if we don't prevent in one legally arranged way what can happen. I didn't mention that in the last few months, this same City Building Land Fund has on several occasions taken loans from Delta Bank, on which grounds, etc., only on the basis of a decision by the Executive Board, which can happen here. Because of this, it should resort to solutions that make it impossible for the executive government to impose budgets in one arbitrary way, and to spend people's money in advance, which will be separated from this people at a time when the economy does not work, at a time when we have great difficulties and at a time when our people are barely able to put an end to the end. Let me say a few words relating to the Decision taken and published in Official Journal of the SRJ 29/2002, Decision on the way and conditions of keeping accounts for the payment of public revenue and the allocation of funds from those accounts. Therefore, the National Bank shall schedule and transfer the paid public revenue, i.e. funds from public revenue accounts, on the accounts of public income users and make reimbursements of more or less paid public revenues on the burden of payment accounts on which these same revenues are paid and the order for reimbursement of public revenues, so the NBJ shall be placed on the basis of the solution. The NBJ informed the competent authorities of the payments and the schedule of public revenues, i.e. delivered either the prescribed reports and the payment and the schedule, to the competent authorities and organisations, not to list further, not to waste valuable time. However, what is important in all of this is that the Law amending and supplementing the budget, more specifically Article 73v, prescribes the same. Therefore, this decision is foreseen to apply from 1.01.2003. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act also starts to apply from 1.01. In 2003. Then why is one republican law deregating what has not yet entered into force? You as a financial expert from Group G17 plus, you'd have to coordinate your work a little bit more. You would have to have a little more mutual coordination in order not to bother us, too, by considering some of the disputed provisions that should already come into force, not to literally bother us with things that we need to consider some of the draft laws on amending the budgetary system and things that are already foreseen in some of the decisions of other state authorities. But that's another problem. It is a problem that is related to the formation of a new political party, from an NGO that has been in power for two years. Let me say a few words at the end of my presentation about how the transition of payment traffic to business banks has resulted in other countries. That's why I have to point out the example of the Republika Srpska. In Republika Srpska, after payment turnover was introduced into business banks, there was a decrease in budget revenues by nearly half. Of course, this is not just about the risks associated with the liquidity of commercial banks where consolidated vault accounts are transferred to them. Therefore, hypothetically, there may be a situation where the business bank is found inequitable, that in the case of a transfer or a request for payment of some larger funds, the payment of that larger amount of funds due to the inability of the bank to service its liabilities. Indeed, in the humble view of us in the SPS, it is good to wait a little while longer with the transfer of payment traffic to the business banks, in order to warn the situations that can really arise with that act. However, if the expert team from the expert government is an expert in contributing to the expert development of the economy in our country, to improving the standard of living of all of us, based on expert examples from the surrounding countries, I would also mention an expert example of the Republic of Bulgaria, where experts can no longer breathe, so they were inclined to call on the former emperor, what was he to return to them and be the non-expert president of the government, so that they could barely reach the air from the expert solutions of previous expert governments. Also, an example of expert solutions in the Russian Federation suggests that due to such a way of availability or expert introduction of expert solutions, the availability of the resources of the people, the mortality rate and the reduction of the life span of the citizens of Russia, not because they drank too much vodka, but because they had no bread, no jobs, which have no certainty, which has no certainty, which is why the government, therefore the expert government that was with them, had to establish, and had to, as a long-term policy maker, to implement and to plan, so that what had not happened, and the absolute collapse of the economy happened and what was likely to happen to us in the near future. Don't let God happen, but as the economic indicators go, that's how it's gonna be soon. To bring the story down to the local level, specifically, in Pirot, which up to 10 years ago, or up to a few years ago, was a strong industrial centre, today a little bit, so someone is strikein', whether "May 1st", whether "Pirotex", whether "Goldentex," which is like a company in the area of skin processing, worked very well at the time of sanctions. Now, in these conditions of well-being, strikes are what characterizes the functioning of the economy, not only in Piroth, but also in Serbia, and the only company that works in Piroth today and that enables the normal lives of the citizens of Piroth is "Tiger". It's only about 10% of the total businesses in one small environment, like Pirot, and what can happen is exactly what we want to prevent, we Socialists from the SPS, want to prevent and warn, and that's to come to the final solutions, which could mean incentives for the development of the economy. Last week, we adopted a budget rebalancing here, adopted the 2003 budget, which Prime Minister Djindjic called the social budget. There are no greater socialities for any society than allowing themselves, the minister warned us earlier that in the far 19th century, after a very heated debate in parliament, with one vote the decision was made to introduce railways into Serbia. I would remind the minister that the introduction of the railway into Serbia was foreseen by the 1878 Berlin Treaty and that the Serbian Parliament is asking just as much as we are now wondering about breaking up the federal state or some other important issues that are being resolved absolutely beyond our will and beyond the will of this people. (President: I ask the MP to return to the agenda subject, since in his performance he also shows an extraordinary perception of other people's mistakes, not to apply them in his own performance. So, the topic of the agenda - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. Here you are, with 30 seconds longer at your MP's disposal). I thank you for your correctness. So, the next set of problems about this amendment proposal and the addition of the Budgetary System Act, which I would like to say more about. In addition to the provisions relating to the investment of funds, which may potentially appear as a surplus in consolidated vault accounts, we need to pay a little more attention to how these laws empower entities to borrow these consolidated vault accounts in domestic or foreign financial organisations. In fact, I'm a lawyer, not an economist, but it's really very important to look at how in the system the division of powers is determined that someone in the name of the government or in the name of the people owes that same people from whom the funds are being allocated to fill the budget and who has the opportunity to do so on behalf of the people. This is where the minister is supposed to do it. Our proposal is not only for it to be a minister, not only for the government, but for both domestic and foreign financial organisations to be consulted by the Assembly, and for representative bodies to be consulted, as the only ones who can make decisions of such weight. So, this is also about another case of leverage of the executive government compared to the legislative one. This is about allowing the self-will of the executive authority and using very broad powers of the executive authority, who knows why. For example, I'd like to list the final session of the Pirot Community Assembly. Minister, you were at the Pirot on Saturday. On Monday, a session of the Pirot Municipality Assembly held to rebalance the 26m dinar budget, of which 40% was made available to the Executive Board. So full 10 million. The executive board will dispose of funds by likely covering some of the city building land fund's financial marifetluke, which has led to the fall of the pyrotical government and caused by the former director of the City Building Land Fund to resign and even resign from his post at the City Building Land Fund. So it's just one example of how abuses can happen at the disposal of funds from a consolidated vault, which could happen if we don't stop in one legally arranged way what can happen. I didn't mention that in the last few months, this same city building land fund has on several occasions been taking loans from Delta Bank, on which grounds, etc., only on the basis of a decision by the Executive Board, which can happen here. Because of this, it should resort to solutions that make it impossible for the executive government to impose budgets in one arbitrary way, and to spend in advance on the people's money that will be separated from this people at a time when the economy does not work, at a time when we have great difficulties and at a time when our people are barely able to put an end to the end. Let me say a few words relating to the Decision taken and published in Official Journal of the SRJ 29/2002, Decision on the way and conditions of keeping accounts for the payment of public revenue and the allocation of funds from those accounts. The National Bank therefore schedules and transfers of paid public revenue or funds from public revenue accounts to public income users and makes return of more or less paid public revenues by giving a public return order based on the solution. The NBJ informed the competent authorities of the payments and the schedule of public revenues, i.e. provided them with the prescribed reports and the payment and the schedule, to the competent authorities and organisations, not to list further, not to waste valuable time. However, what is important in all this is that the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, more specifically Article 73v, prescribes the same. Therefore, this decision, which the NBJ is all working on, is foreseen as of 1 January 2003. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which gives rise to the same public revenue administration, also starts to apply from 1 January 2003. Then why is one republican law deregating what has not yet entered into force? You as a financial expert from Group G17 plus would have to coordinate your work a little bit more. You'd have to have a little more mutual coordination, so that it wouldn't happen that you're also burdening this esteemed home by considering some controversial provisions that should already come into force, not that you're literally bothering us with things that we need to consider some draft laws on amending the budget system and things that are already foreseen in some of the decisions of other state authorities. But that's another problem. It is a problem that is related to the formation of a new political party by an NGO that has been in power for two years. Let me say a few words at the end of my presentation about what the transition of payment traffic to business banks resulted in in other countries. That's why I have to point out the example of the Republika Srpska. In Republika Srpska, after payment turnover was introduced into business banks, there was a decrease in budget revenues by nearly half. Of course, this is not just about the risks associated with the liquidity of commercial banks where consolidated vault accounts are transferred to them. Therefore, hypothetically, there may be a situation where the business bank is found inequitable, that in the case of a transfer or a request for payment of some larger funds, the payment of that larger amount of funds due to the inability of the bank to service its liabilities. Indeed, in the humble view of us in the SPS, it is good to wait a little while longer with the transfer of payment traffic to the business banks, in order to warn the situations that can really arise with that act. However, if the expert team is from an expert government that makes an expert contribution to the development of the economy in our country, to improving the standard of living of all of us, based on expert examples from the surrounding countries, I would also mention an expert example of the Republic of Bulgaria, where experts can no longer breathe, so they were inclined to call on the former emperor, what was he to return to them and be the non-expert president of the government, so that they could barely reach the air from the expert solutions of previous expert governments. Also, an example of expert solutions in the Russian Federation suggests that because of such a way of making available or introducing expert solutions in the availability of the people, in the end line, there was a rate of mortality and the reduction of the life span of the citizens of Russia, not because they drank too much vodka, but because they had no bread, which they had no business, which they had no certainty, which the government, therefore the expert government that was with them, had to establish; and it had to, as a long-term policy maker, implement and plan measures to avoid what happened, and there was an absolute collapse of the economy and what will most likely happen to us in the near future. God forbid it happens, but as the economic indicators go, that's how it's gonna be soon. To bring the story down to the local level; specifically, in Pirot, which up to 10 or up to a few years ago was a strong industrial centre, today a little bit and a little bit of a strike, whether it was "May 1st", whether "Pirotex", whether "Goldentex", which is like a company in the area of skin processing, worked very well at the time of sanctions. Now, in these conditions of well-being, strikes are what characterizes the functioning of the economy, not only in Piroth, but also in Serbia, and the only company that works in Piroth today and that enables the normal lives of the citizens of Piroth is "Tiger". It's only about 10% of the total economic operators in one small environment like Pirot and what can happen is exactly what we want to prevent, we Socialists from the SPS, to prevent and warn; and we also want to see final solutions that could mean stimulating the development of the economy. Last week, we adopted a budget rebalancing here, adopted the 2003 budget, which Prime Minister Djindjic called the social budget. There's no greater sociale for any society than allowing citizens to earn their own lives, that they can take care of their families, that they can work and earn, rather than be on state mangers. And at the very end, the question that, Mr. Minister, many of the citizens who have appeared to me as a national MP, has been related firstly (let me have a small digression) to introduce a register of cash registers in villages where there are shops, which do not have trades daily, do not have a market of 500 dinars. One register for the villages, which are inhabited by about 50 to 100 residents, costs about 1,000 euros. Will this mean that you, as minister, will seek to abolish these shops, to leave these people without basic living needs and opportunities to give people access to these basic provisions of life, only because you have passed a law that is inappropriate to the conditions in which we live in Serbia today and only because such a law is made available by the majority. Also, I have to remind you of the questions that are constantly raised by those who, because of the good policy run by this government, have lost their jobs and moved on to the Labour Market Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25364	People's MP, you are now inappropriately away from the subject for five minutes and 30 seconds, not a word on the subject of the agenda, which is to change and supplement the Budgetary System Act. I would ask you to use the time of your parliamentary group by speaking on the subject of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25365	Okay, I got five more minutes, so it's not scary. Therefore, for all of these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendment and addition of the Budgetary System Act, unless you have more understanding of the problems we have pointed out to you during this debate, in a very educational way, by Mr Jovan Todorovic, a member of the SPS, in the best interest, to fix this law on the budgetary system. But anyway, here, in this assembly, most of them are provided in different ways, and perhaps through some diplomatic visas, which individuals carry up, on the fifth floor, but on that path. The SPS will, in the end, be against this law unless the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are adopted in the form in which we have proposed them. And in the end, the people who have been at the Labour Market Office haven't received any privileges in five months, and you've driven them to the Labour Market Office. They ask you, when will the contributions be paid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25366	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic and it is the last registered speaker in the debate in principle. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25367	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, when you're criticised by the MPs of the SRS, don't think it's because we hate you. We just want your laws, which you're proposing, to leave as little room as possible for abuses. That's right in this case, Mr. Minister. I can tell you that I personally appreciate your work on the budget system, especially what you want to arrange legal spending and how budgets are spent. But what falls into my eyes eats, and if you edit, you edit more for others, less for yourself, and you leave yourself room for certain abuses, for which you don't have to account for anyone. That is why the SRS has also submitted an amendment that the responsible person who does not comply with this law will be punished in a misdemeanour procedure. As far as the law itself is concerned, in Article 2 paragraph 8, you, Mr. Minister, have given yourself the right to invest in the money market and out of the country. First of all, we're against it in principle, because why would you be a privileged budget user and why couldn't it be the authorities of local self-government? So no one or everyone. It's principled. Legally speaking, Mr. Minister, the question is, who are you going to finance through these investments, are you going to finance foreign business entities that are supposed to buy our economy in the privatisation process? So, we fund our money to buy our companies, and the owner should be a stranger. Also, Mr. Minister, in this law itself, the question arises -- why have you given such a deadline to funds that are budgetary, which are in banks, i.e. commercial banks, by sight, should be transferred to the vault by 1 July 2003. Counting that your payment turnover in business banks starts from 1 January 2003, the long legal deadline itself is not very clear and always leaves room for reasonable doubt; always. Now the question arises why, for fiscal registers, where the job is much more extensive, where surely our electronic industry will not be able to cover all the users of those registers, you've left only a year. Also, Mr. Minister, the question arises why did you set a deadline for returning 31.12.2003 from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the business banks? Since we had already rebalanced the Republic of Serbia's budget, where did the funds from the business banks come from? That means, Mr. Minister, that you've been acting pretty distasteful when you've been giving budget funds to business banks. You've also been advocating. The question now arises, what are the privileged banks that have been in possession of the money of the Republic of Serbia for more than a year? Are these not the same banks that finance consumer loans to purchase goods of Croatian and Slovenian origin? More than once, at this pay phone, it has been said that banks should borrow domestic production. You avoid saying that all the time and always keep your tax policy in some twisted form, so that ordinary citizens can't understand you. Likewise, Mr. Minister, we have recently voted on amendments to the Transport Tax Act. According to reports we have from the field and some interpretation of some advisers, messengers, etc., the provisions of this law are not respected. These interpretations, all the republican authorities in charge of traffic tax control, accept as interpretations of the ministry. Now you have a case that you still pay taxes on software, and right now it's legalization of software and it's going to last until 31.12 this year. Which item did you seduce the software under? Are you under publication? A member of the law himself says software. So you can't say that it's a publication of special interest. Minister, I see you're mad about this, but I now call you to come out for this pay phone and say publicly and publicly interpret all your republican authorities whether amendments to the Transport Tax Act have been released by hardware and software. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25368	The word is from Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25369	No hate, no anger. The answer to your question: as envisaged (and that is, remember, done accepting one amendment, which was proposed by the Social Democratic Party, at least I don't think, I don't know exactly which party) that this would be done in the right way, the Ministry of Science has prepared a sublegal act, which should make it closer to the order. They did it. We gave our opinion on this sublegal act and it should be published these days. The answer to this question of yours is yes; but there needs to be a closer regulation of this matter, so that everything doesn't become hardware and software, and because that amendment extended matter, there was also talk about one information equipment. It was meant for the printers. It should not happen that any chair or anything in this country becomes information equipment and is exempt from sales taxes. Because it was intervened in this way through the amendment, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development must prepare this sublaw that will be completed these days. We care about everything being arranged for New Year's Eve. He'll be in the government session tomorrow or next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25370	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude a principled search. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, rejected as incomplete: an amendment to Article 2 submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Mr Radojko Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Bora Stanimirović; then, an amendment to Article 53, which was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic; in the end, an amendment adding a new member of 74, who was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, these amendments cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word was requested by the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday in the debate, I spoke in principle about these two amendments, which Mrs Comic now says cannot be discussed. It would be my principled position on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you, Mrs Komic, that the principle has already been violated and that amendments to certain draft laws and even one amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been adopted in this way. That's what I warned you about on time. The amendment accepted the amendment of a member of the Rules of Procedure, which was not envisaged at all by a proposal for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure. Once the principle is established that the MP can, by amendment, change what has not been amended by the amendment proposal, that principle must be respected until the end. Our amendments can't be rejected just because they were filed by Serbian Radical Party MPs and accepted amendments with the same legal framework only because they were submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, at the time by a member of the assembly's majority. In a discussion on the minutes of the previous National Assembly session, I warned that you had amended the Rules of Procedure and in a member who was not scheduled to amend it, but you amended it by accepting the amendment of the People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. It was submitted by Dragan Jocic. So I warn you, you cannot reject these amendments. Today they will be debated and voted. I suppose the assembly majority will refuse them, since they were not accepted by a representative of the government. But in order to know that we are in the National Assembly, that we all have the same rights and the same obligations, not to read the signator, but to what the text says, don't apply the double arches. This National Assembly will work on the same principles, regardless of whether the proposing is one who belongs to the Serbian government, the ruling majority in parliament or belongs to the opposition. Because we have the same rights. The same regulations apply, and so does this regulation, based on which we make laws. I do not accept at all your finding that our amendments can be rejected if your amendments, which you belong to the majority or you belonged, were accepted in time. These are the worst amendments, the ones that have ruined this Rules of Procedure to the point where we no longer feel equal in the National Assembly. That is why I ask that this breach of the Rules of Procedure be declared by the Administrative Board, and I ask you to, regardless of the position of the Legislative Committee (he has the right to refuse, and I do not know who gave him that right).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25372	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25373	I'm done. He can only determine whether the amendment is legally possible or not. He can't say the amendment isn't complete. He can't appreciate the integrity of the amendment. That is why we are not bound by the opinion of the Legislative Committee. We have submitted the amendment within the deadline. The congregation services missed him through the procedure. The committees spoke of him. It is their turn to be declared by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25374	The MP did not, in practice, call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but for the incorrect application of Article 142(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by the Legislative Committee. In doing so, explaining my objection to the precedents, which I can be prone to as a national MP, which mainly refers to the Anglo-Saxon judicial system, more often in America, where, based on precedent, real legal practice, if the precedent ever occurred. The session of the Legislative Committee was held, the Committee made a decision and, on the basis of the application of Article 142 paragraph 5, the amendment will not be discussed at the session of this Assembly, and the session of the Administrative Committee will be scheduled in the Rules of Procedure for a specified period. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, on a new basis? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25375	You have called on one member of the Rules of Procedure. That member is also called upon by the Legislative Committee and argues that the amendment is not complete. The amendment is complete, it has a basis for being tolerated. It refers to a law that changes, has an explanation, is filed within the time limit. These are the conditions set out for the amendment to be complete. You cannot explain that the amendment is not complete to reject an amendment that is complete. If you said - the amendment is not accepted because it refers to the amendment of a member of the law that has not been amended by the draft law, we could discuss it on a different basis, but it has not been established by the Legislative Committee either. He just said the amendment wasn't complete. The amendment is complete, if it wasn't complete, it wouldn't have been missed by congregation services. While you're already referring to a precedent, there's really a precedent that creates a right where law is not regulated, but here we have everything regulated by law. To us is the source of the law written down. To us, the Rules of Procedure is a source of law. If it was broken once and you approved it, you can't say it was broken next time, so you won't approve it, then there remains doubt, and we are being watched by Serbian citizens, there is doubt that you rejected the amendment just because it was filed by the MPs of the SRS. That's the truth. That's what you handle, but I urge you to change your attitudes before obvious facts. I'm able to get you a file in five minutes on when you've all accepted amendments that were incomplete in this way. Well, if you've already accepted them, now I don't expect you to accept them, but they have to get in the process. Then, let the congregation's majority decide whether to accept it or not, so that before the amendments correct the bill, they regulate the matter left by the law's draftr unregulated and that will cause difficulties in the application of the law. For example, Article 53, which is called upon by law in almost every member, does not regulate the matter the legislator is referring to. And if there were little wisdom with the government's representatives, he would accept amendments or he would submit amendments to his bill and might later be afraid to have one text of the law that he won't have to change next year. I guarantee you, you'll have to re-change the Budgetary System Act, even if it's due to article 53.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25376	I find that MP Tomislav Nikolic has only expanded his reasoning and his argument for breach of the Rules of Procedure, and my argument and explanation remains the same as in the previous case, with the MP right, yes, we have a legal basis on which we make decisions and this legal basis has been used to reject amendments as incomplete. We're moving on to Article 2 the amendment was submitted to by Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25377	Since the bill promoter has changed the whole of Article 8. The law on the budgetary system should point to differences between the previous member and the one now proposed and concerns the powers of the finance minister. The finance minister is now authorised by Article 2 to invest money in a consolidated account of the Republic's vault on domestic or foreign financial markets of money or capital. The money, which is on a consolidated account so far, has been able to invest on the domestic market and, of course, liquid reserves. And if Article 8 is further interpreted and you look at the position that the local government authority in charge of finance can conclude a contract with the minister on the investment of money in the consolidated account of local government vaults, this means that the local government can conclude with the minister a contract that the minister in the foreign financial market of money and capital places and funds of local self-government. So it's not just from the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, but from the consolidated account of the local government vault, as it is called here in this law. It opens Pandora's box. First of all, I have to say, it's pointless in one of the poorest countries in Europe that you say is the most modest budget, whose every item of the budget is already foreseen for some social giving, a budget that with over 40 percent of the funding of social obligations, it's pointless to predict that there will be funds for investment. It's pointless. He's not going to be on serious markets. If you have a million euros to invest, then who are you, where to show up, on which stock market, with a million euros and someone to respect you as a partner. It is a shame for a country to come with that amount, and there will be no million euros, there will be 500,000 euros, that it appears at all on the stock market. Another thing, and what brokerage house is going to do that? And, which will guarantee us that we don't get that budget, that it doesn't happen in one day to invest it, that the stock market breaks, and you know how Americans rock the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and the Moscow Stock Exchange when they need it, when they need it, people fail for the night, countries fail for the night, they bring the states into slavery, and you won't accept two members, two amendments to the SRS, and one of them determines the responsibility of the Minister for Invested Money. You won't accept the minister's responsibility for the money being invested. It remains the sole responsibility of the minister for borrowing, investment is not borrowing, it is two completely different bodies, it is antidotes, so the minister responds when the Republic is in debt, and when the Republic invests, then the minister won't respond, because the minister wants to speculate on the stock market; his money, aunt's money, someone's money, invest in the stock market, speculate, don't speculate with state money. I want to accept on the domestic market money and capital to invest as much as you want. You're a member of the government, and the government is responsible for what you do. I suppose you will have mercy once in your term at least to report to us what you have done, if you are not once a year, to what the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure oblige you to do, but that you are the people's money and not only the money of the Republic, but also the money of all local authorities, invest according to your opinion, not by submitting a report to anyone, not even in violation of what you are doing, I think that in this Serbia, no man has ever earned any of his former life and work, and especially you are not the Minister of Finance, you are not the Minister of Finance, you are the Minister of Taxes. You're a tax collector, a haircut minister, you're a barber's minister. (President: five minutes. () Of course, I need to understand that, and I say that in a conveyed sense, and you can blame yourself as much as you want. Okay, we'll see who cut the hair when the courts judge. Unlike you DOS manlia, we have courts to solve, we don't solve revolutionary courts, and it doesn't solve wishes and wills. So what you took from me, I wait first to see what the court will say about it. Fortunately, there are courts in Serbia. (President: six minutes. You kidnapped me, you're a Hungarian businessman, and I have nothing to talk to you about. To me someone who comes here in Serbia.... (President: Time has been spent to discuss the amendment. )......................................................................................................... He pays taxes to ask me, I will. And you paying taxes to Hungary for 15 years, don't talk about it. Minister, think a little bit better about this amendment. I don't think you have that capacity. When I say capacity, I mean all kinds of capacities to take such responsibility upon themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25378	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised MP for the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25379	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the people's emissaries, the SPS parliamentary group will support Mr. Vukic's amendment because it is logical and meaningful. There is one question here, how can we even happen to have surplus financial resources in the consolidated account of the Republic's vault and that we can place those funds abroad. So how can we even as a vault, as a republican finance, come into this situation? I see one single way, which is to grant us a loan to finance the budget deficit, to borrow from abroad, and to keep those funds abroad for a while, so that it can eventually be decided to place those funds abroad. It's the only possibility of investing in a foreign market. Then the question arises, why did we actually take the loan, whether we should have taken it if we were already able to invest it on the foreign market. It is therefore appropriate to accept this amendment and avoid such possible situations. So it's in the best interest. Secondly, regarding this member, the SPS parliamentary group submitted an amendment rejected by the Legislative Committee as incomplete. I don't know what's incomplete about it, Mrs. Comic, and I'm asking people who have been working on it on the Legislative Committee since there's no explanation. We said, if there was a surplus of cash meetings in the Republic vault, that his placement was decided by the Government, not by the Minister. If there is an surplus of cash in the vault of local self-government or autonomous province, no individual shall decide on the placement of that surplus. Therefore, not an authorised person in the competent authority for the financing of local self-government but an executive body of the local self-government. I don't know what's incomplete about it. Thirdly, by that amendment, we suggested that the concept be invested in replacing with the concept of place. Is there anything more complete than the text of the amendment that we have tabled on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group? I therefore propose to Mr. Minister that it be opened to the end of this kind of proposal and to amend the law and to accept, regardless of the position of the Legislative Council, the amendments of Mr. Vukic and the SRS and the amendment tabled by the SPS parliamentary group on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25380	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janačković. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25381	The Honorable Presidency, very briefly, given that during the debate in principle we mainly agreed with the motion and the minister, I explained the content and essence of my amendments. I've come to understand that in this transitional period, it's premature for that kind of intervention in law. With the full respect and trust of the motionor, I withdraw this and the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25382	I find the applicant has withdrawn the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The proposal to add a new member to Article 4 was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janackovic, with a correction. It is an amendment that, in addition to the amendment to Article 2, has withdrawn from the procedure and thus this amendment ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Mr Radojko Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Bora Stanimirović. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25383	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, four MPs submitted an amendment to Article 6, proposing that the current text be replaced in Article 6(2) and that this text should read as follows: "The conclusion of the loan agreement and the issuance of securities of value to finance the budget deficit is decided by the Government when it comes to domestic loans, i.e. loans, and the National Assembly when it comes to foreign loans". On the occasion of this amendment, we held a debate when we adopted a law on the budgetary system in February of this year. That's when we made all the arguments for and against this solution. I think it was justified at that time to foresee that borrowing from domestic financial organisations or borrowing through the issue of securities from values and bonds may also be decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and borrowing from foreign financial organisations and obtaining foreign loans should be decided by this assembly. On that occasion, we also said that this assembly could not only be a place where guarantee and counter-guarantee would be given for what someone had already taken and provided the funds, but the National Assembly must decide on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia abroad. I also think that these amendments and additions to the law, which primarily refer to the introduction of a public payment service, and politically little discussion, given that the previous article already stated that the pointless investment from taxpayers' funds, and already in this Article 6 is envisaged and regulates the way the budget deficit covers. I think these two things about investment and surplus funds in municipal budgets, local self-government budgets and the republican budget are crediting this issue to cover the budget deficit. I think it is really unnecessary on that side in these two members who are disfellowshipping themselves, making changes and supplementing them, and that this opportunity should be accepted by the amendments tabled by the MPs in front of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25384	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Radojko Petric, Joca Arsic and Milos Nesovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25385	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 with MEPs Joco Arsic and Milos Nesovic. A bill of this law. The amendment consists of two parts and concerns new members 73a and 73j. In Article 73a, the government proposed that the network, number and structure of organisational units be determined by the minister on a proposal from the director of the Public Payments Administration. The amendment proposes that it be in the government's jurisdiction, not the minister's. It is normal for the minister to obtain the opinion of the director of the public payments administration and make a proposal, but a decision on the network of organisational units should be made by the government. This also makes sense because of the unification of criteria when establishing a network of organisational units for other tasks. As an example, I cite the establishment of the branch seat and the exposition of the tax administration. The same criteria must be respected: the number of inhabitants of the municipality, the number of users of services, the economic strength of the area, the area, the geographical location of the area, as well as the normal human and spatial opportunities and the environment. It is the government that can ensure the application of the same criteria, not individual institutions from case to case and who do not know enough the overall situation on the ground. The second part of the amendment refers to Article 73j. The Government's proposal in this article states that the Public Payments Administration, in the event of refusal to execute payment orders for non-compliance with the regulation, is obliged to give written reasons for refusal at the request of the applicant. The amendment proposes a supplement in the sense that the applicant is obliged to submit a written request if he wishes to be given an explanation in writing. Although this may seem insignificant at first sight, in practice it can create complications. In fact, an officer on the counter when returning a warrant gives an oral explanation, which is why the warrant cannot be executed. It's common practice for errands to be brought by couriers and other unprofessional persons. It is therefore illogical to prescribe the obligation for the public payment administration to write an explanation at the request of those non-professional persons. It is therefore necessary to supplement this article. The Public Payments Administration should write an explanation which is why it refused to execute the order when the applicant addressed it in writing. This will ensure that the request is sought by the expert representatives of the applicant. The adoption of the amendments provides for a more responsible performance of the work and provides equal treatment for both the users of the budget and the employees of the payment administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25386	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25387	Before explaining this amendment, let me just introduce you, Mrs Comic, that the amendment withdrawn by MP Bratoljub Janacković, which he predicted would be added to Article 4a, which would be replaced by Article 14. The bill, which the government did not propose by this bill, was included in the assembly procedure, and even the staff member came out to explain it at the pay phone and only after this pay phone did he withdraw it. The same Legislative Committee discussed amendments to the MPs Janackovic, Veljkovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. All three amendments were to have the same fate, to be rejected as incomplete or to be released into the procedure. Mr Janackovic's amendment, which belongs to the ruling majority in this assembly, is included in the procedure, and the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs is not included in the procedure and so much about your understanding of democracy and parliamentaryism in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now amendment to Article 10. I think the minister, if only he weren't ashamed that something like this had slipped away and got away with it, would either accept this amendment or participate in something that would involve even all local self-governments, which will take place from the date of entry into force of this law until December 31st, 2002. First, Article 1 stipulates that the funds deposited as deposits as seen in the business banks remain with the business banks until 1 July 2003. Why? I understand the argument that chaos would be created if we were to say - by way of force, the funds are withdrawn, the Delta Bank has polarised what it will do with these funds. I understand, but we set a deadline on January 31st, 2003. Now, for a month it's quite enough for someone who has funds based on sightings to return those funds and transfer local self-government funds to a consolidated account of local authorities' vaults. The explanation, rationally, for these six months does not exist, except that it does seem to be a service to the banks, but if we told Mr. Minister that the purpose of bringing these changes and supplementing is that, that the healthy money they have budgets is no longer a means to use a business bank, take those funds within a month. Why should they stay for six months while they're already being deposited by sight? Items 6 and 7 are pointless. The sixth is pointless, it can't stand in the law. The law, which will enter into force on December 25th or 26th, says - those funds that you were carrying out in 2003. You don't use past tense in the future. If you'd said-- the funds you would've made in 2003, I would have understood that. That you said - the funds you've given me in 2002, and I understand that; but to say - the funds you've given up in 2003, I don't understand that because we're not in 2003 and no one in 2003 has put up the funds. Who does this apply to now? Who are these direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget funds they used in 2003? Give us some data here so we can see who's speculating and manipulating it. What kind of contracts were concluded in 2002 on the 2003 extradition of budgets in advance, which are not even voted. You really owe us an explanation for what this looks like. I know, Minister, that it's much nicer for you to talk to other people than to listen to the MP, but I warn you that I'm making accusations from this pay phone and that it would be the most necessary of you to answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25388	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25389	I would also like to use it as a representative of the parliamentary group. To respond to these accusations and raise one suspicion. Namely, if the law enters into force on December 26th, Mr. Finance Minister, and you are now the first time in the history of this country and the person who collects incomes and the person who decides to spend income, that function in one man has not been represented so far, but has always been seen as being cared for by someone else, and the spending of money by someone else, so as not to tempt you, Mr. Minister. I am interested, if the law enters into force on 26 December, why did you provide that by 31 December the law could be played, why did you predict that all local self-governments could, in a vacuum from 26 to 31, enter into agreements on the extradition of their assets with business banks and that, in practice, the consolidated accounts of local authorities were not formed until 31 December 2003. This is a provision of Article 7. It's a bill of law. Are you being led by banking lobbys, or have your representatives, in local self-government, involved in something that is dishonest and made promises and made commitments regarding these promises? I point out that it's one bank that's been privileged and another one that's been privileged in both that regime and the current one. Now she may be a little less privileged, but this first one, Delta Bank, has taken over as she has kept the socialists under her control. She's taken all your budgets and she's doing with those budgets whatever she wants. Of course, I won't forget the "Cepter Bank" either, because it's your favorite businessman in Serbia, who never paid the tax, and sold the goods for a few billion euros in Serbia. Minister, I've already told you once from this pay phone, and that means not seriously, that while you were not in Serbia the one with two or three names, one was Serbian, one was made-up -- Cepter, he sold goods in Serbia for several billion euros and didn't pay a single tax. (Glass from the O.R.: You were in power. What you know was who was in power. If there's anything else you can say in your life other than that we've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25390	People's MP, please return to the subject of the amendment that you have tabled on the amendment and addition of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25391	If you warn these people of the Hall, tell them who you have sent to the Messenger of the people, for they will continue to shout, and they do not know whom you have warned in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25392	National MP, since you are rightly counting on good acquaintances and congregation procedures and Rules of Procedure, you know very well that with at least three proceedings during this session, between 13,10 and now, you have insisted that you have obtained the conditions to give you and the measure of confiscation of words, since you have two warnings. So the warning about the topic you're dealing with is about you as a speaker. You have 30 seconds to discuss this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25393	Mrs. Comic, I thought you'd met me in these two years. I've never been afraid of threats, and you'll never be able to contain my speech for the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25394	People's MP, this is not a threat, this is a notice. When you hear the threat, you'll see the difference. This is a notification pursuant to Article 84(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25395	When I was not old enough, my father told me, son, whenever someone gives you advice that you didn't ask for, know it's threatening you. So this advice of yours I didn't ask you to take exclusively as a threat. Don't threaten me, I've been speaking very seriously about a very serious matter. I've read the bill carefully, and I've brought you here all the associations that this bill has led me to. Don't make me call now the names of people in this room who know what I'm talking about and who are involved in all of this, and represent certain local authorities. No escape from one party to another will save them when we're back in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25396	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, finance and economy minister, want the final word? The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25397	I would only like to remove a few concerns in this final word, but also to say a few words about further steps, if you adopt this bill. Firstly, I would like to thank the many MPs who have given a few interesting ideas around this very technical topic. Much of them are not subject to these changes and additions, but they will certainly be embedded in the next steps, whether it is a new law on the National Bank of Serbia, whether it is a future proposal for a public debt law that we must prepare, whether it is further development of the vault at all levels that I am sure will require further legislative and sublegal activity. This process is something we've been doing for the past year and a half. If this esteemed home adopts these amendments and complements the Budgetary System Act, of course, we are facing the hard work of implementing and establishing this administration and all these principles that are set here. A number of preparations have been completed. I can say that in that case we will do in a year what it took one Slovenia for six years, one Croatia for four years. In this segment of public finances we tried to speed up the course of events, of course learning the most from them, because they started from that root, that SDK, and the organisation of public finances. So, both good and bad experience, we tried to fit into this. For this reason, I think that through the vote of this law we will take one significant step in further setting up order and transparency in public finances. Another fact, it seems to me, has been carried out through numerous interventions, which is how to measure the risk, how to manage the risk. There's a risk in finance. It exists because at any time you can place or not place the funds, you can set up one contract with one legal person or not. So what's going on now, you can look at this time on the dissipated side, it's an attempt for us to quickly and in the best possible way to establish a system that will allow us to: one, measure the risk, and that's why in the Budget Law we had one number of these elements for the first time; two, this is the element of what we're talking about here today. It is a much better system to manage this risk and to place with as little risk as possible some funds, which will be extremely scarce in the years to come, of course to the well-being of those who are the source of these funds, which are our taxpayers. Simply, at times here it seemed as if suddenly there was some huge risk because some funds were to be placed, and the many recognized well that it would be extremely small at first. That doesn't mean that the risk didn't exist before, but it got away from him and the systemic risk was created. He created himself by creating certain obligations. If I could give just one example, of the ugliest things in debt finance and the creation of the obligation I've ever seen, it's when we noticed that a former governor of NBJ literally signed a guarantee at a German airport that he wasn't legally authorized to sign, which, as a guarantee, pawned some NBJ funds to a foreign state. That foreign state says today - you have an authorized person, it's not our problem that this person didn't respect the law. She was authorized to negotiate. How did we know that this person had no right to carry out that guarantee? In this way, and at the local level, I am convinced, we have a series of examples where through guarantees we do through taking over certain obligations, through many of what many have done, and that neither the local congregation nor this congregation has been informed. We found a situation where the risk not only was not recognized, measured and managed, but was systematically created. Therefore, in the budgetary system, you will notice that there must be some provisions, which are hard to argue, in terms of major limitation, especially for local self-government, for their borrowing, which is that they cannot be in charge of anything else, but for some capital investments. That was the question in the discussion. Of course, as far as foreign loans are concerned, and it has to be a practice that must be maintained at all costs here, it's that for any credit, for any foreign guarantee, there's some legislation, but there doesn't have to be any holes in all this. Everything must come before this home, because this is how the funds of future budgets and certain guarantees are employed. Therefore, a number of these guarantees and counterguarantees will be found in front of this home in weeks and months to come. Now, I don't want to rush this debate, not because it would create a risk, on the contrary, that this assembly, in the name of the people, would vote or not, what will be the engagement of some budget funds, means the funds that will come from the pockets of our taxpayers in the years to come. By doing so, I think that through the establishment of the Public Payments Administration, we are fast-tracking order and approaching the market economy, by continuing to recognise the state function where it exists. It will be an effective way of recording and tomorrow setting up various vault functions at local and national level. This will save us and have transparency in public finances. As far as duties are concerned, asset allocations, this way we have a more orderly system, and of course, we'll have a lot more opportunities to talk about it when the public debt law comes into play. That is why I urge you to vote in favour of these changes and additions to this budget system. The last thing I'd like to say, and because I've been asked by a number of MPs, including some MP groups, what about the final bill for 2000? Especially DOS parliamentary groups, DSS, should we vote for that final bill, is that in any way "covering" what happened and what was shown in the report? I want to say that it is up to you to accept and vote for this final bill, because in no case does not affect what, possibly, the procedure launched by the prosecution, by the judiciary. In this way, you will also accept this report, which has been presented here, which we have spoken of extensively in the past few days. That's why I suggest you vote for the final bill for 2000. Thank you very much for your attention and for sure that one of the following points will be, if this esteemed home adopts the constitutional charter and follows the constitutional law next week, one of the very fast things that we will prepare for you, whether we believe or not, budget rebalancing for 2003, because that is where we will have to show all income from the source of taxpayers in Serbia's budget, and expenditure on public authorities in the same place. I'll see you in January. Thank you very much for your attention and for these discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25398	Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly today will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general, which will end the sixth item of the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the SREME CARLOPS You have received a proposal for a decision from the National MP Ivan Andric. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information, with an amendment. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they haven't already, they file a statement with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, Ivan Andric, want a word? There is a word from MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25399	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on the restoration of the cultural and historical heritage of the Sremski Karlovacs in 1991. This law provides for the establishment of a Committee for the Reconstruction and Construction of the Sremski Karlovci, and we, as the National Assembly, are obliged to appoint members of that committee. I'll be very brief, you've got a proposal today. A single amendment has been tabled on the Committee on Culture and Information, so now the proposal has been changed, you have it in front of you. I would just like to ask you today, however, in every way possible, to make a decision on the formation of this committee, since this proposal has been withdrawn four times from the procedure, thereby blocking the work of the Committee on Reconstruction and Construction of the Sremski Karlovci. Given that it is within the competence of this committee and the availability of funds, several letters have arrived, requests from the Sremski Karlovci themselves, to allow them to continue to work normally and simply, the funds foreseen by the budget, to take advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25400	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic text of the law was actually passed in 1991, but the law subsequently had amendments and additions in 1993 and 1994. And everything's fine with this law, the idea and what all of us Serbian citizens have to do with Sremski Karlovci. I don't think he has to explain and explain himself at all. There are at least two problems here, which the decision-makers have made and led us into doubt. I do not think that a decision in this form can be adopted, with all the wishes of the SRS MPs, that the budget item provided for the Sremski Karlovci is used in accordance with the law, and of course other revenues from various rights that are obtained over the Sremski Karlovci, which are badges, badges, use of names, etc. Article 3 shall refer to the term of office of members of the Committee. The law provides for the term of office of members of the board to last four years. The law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of Sremski Karlovac does not speak of members of the board as function. For the first time now, in this proposed decision, in Article 3, I have heard that there are some members in office, and it can't stay like this. Here is Article 3: "In the event that the president and members of the committee chosen by office cease the function they perform, the president, or the board member becomes a person appointed to that function" - to what function, Mr Andric? What function is the membership of the Sremski Karlovac Protection Committee? No function has been mentioned in the law, as a function that pulls behind itself an automatic membership of the committee. Is that, say, Gjorge Djukic? What if you choose a new President of the Executive Council, if he is a member of the Committee - he is not. All members of the Committee are elected to the National Assembly and none of them are the basis for membership. He can't stay like this. The second is today's amendment. So don't play games with people. I don't know who was supposed or who was supposed to be there for him. But in public, they circulated names. Today we received only a change and addition of one member of the Committee, was this man hurt by saying that he was going to be a member of the Committee on the Sremish Carlovci, and now he's not? Is there any reason why it's changed? Is there any agreement these people want to be board members? The road to hell is covered with good intentions. One good decision must be well prepared. This decision is not well prepared. This decision is illegal. Article 3 is illegal. No one has the privilege of being a member of that committee because he performs any national or any other function. Therefore, this decision must be prepared for the next session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25402	The word is from MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25403	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we need to find a way to end this, so that the Sremski Karlovci are not the hostages of politics, because it's not understandable why this hasn't been over for a long time. I would point out one major technical error than the one that was made from this assembly payphone, and it is not by any means the emphasis of great Serbia. It is hardly possible that the Croatian Parliament would place its cardinal in the eighth place on a list, putting ahead of him, with respect, professors, secretaries of some committees etc. The Sremska eparchy has its headquarters in Sremski Karlovci and the episcope of Sremski in all of this is not just a technical issue. It's supposed to be on this list after the board president comes first or we don't have to put him in the first place. I think we need to find a way to keep the Sremski Karlovci, some kind of sluts, on either side, not cut off for something that belongs to them under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25404	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? I would like to inform you that according to Article 89(4), none of the MPs have applied for a debate in principle. It's a unique search, so there are no reports. Does anyone who hasn't used their right to Article 89 want a word? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Culture and Information submitted an amendment to section 2, regular number 13 of the motion for a decision, which was agreed by the applicant for a decision, MP Ivan Andric, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Since we have completed a single search on the motion for a decision, does the proponent, MP Ivan Andric, want to give the final word, according to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, and the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. With this, we have exhausted discussions in principle and detail on all the adopted points of the agenda. The president of the National Assembly of Ms. Natasa Micic today has set today as the day for the vote and today at 15.00 hours will be the vote on the agenda we had. Finally, a notice confirming the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MPs Ana Tasic and Dragica Radulovic, elected from the Serbian Unity Party's election list -- Borislav Pelevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliaments, I would like to confirm the mandate of MPs Ana Tasic and Dragica Radulovic and congratulate the MPs in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-18-0.u25405	Please continue to work and please, to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that we have a quorum to decide on, in fact, 172 MPs are present in the O.R. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2000. A YEAR Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, I am voting on the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget in principle. For 169 against four, the abstentioned one did not vote 12, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. Since there have been no amendments to this law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2000 as a whole. For 173 against five, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2001. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget in principle. For 112, against 73, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget in general. For 112, against 73, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget for the whole. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: the proposal for a law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in income tax and sales tax in 2003. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal lays down rules on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003 in principle. For 159 against eight, the two abstentions did not vote 26 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On 2nd item B. subpoints 29, 68, 73, 74, 82, 83th and 104th amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jović, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic and Joca Arsic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 122 abstentions, they did not vote 44, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slavoljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 112, two abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Articles 2 and 3. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 of point A of point 1, 2, 3 and 4 of subpoints 50, 94 and 124 and to point A of point 3, subpoint 1, 2, 3 and 4 of point B of subpoint 58, 114 and 148 were submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Đurasković. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 135, the abstentions were not voted 42, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, with a correction, to Article 2 b. subpoint 52 and to Article 3 b. subpoint 61, were submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 154 abstentions, there was no 42 vote, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b. subpoint 128 and to Article 3 b. subpoint 153 were submitted by MP Miomir Tadic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 146 abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, with a correction, to Article 2 b. subpoint 135 and to Article 3rd point B. subpoint 160 together were submitted by the MPs Miroslav Martic, Natasa Micic, Bogoljub Zečević, Zoran Mićović, Milka Marinković, Branko Beševic, Predrag Mijailović, Zelđo Hurić, Vukosav Tomašević, Sladjan Mijailović, Zoran Ćirković, Vasilija Pavić and Radojko Petrovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 78, with seven abstentions, 21 of the 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On 3rd point B. subpoints 10, 29, 46, 64, 86, 115, 129, 132, 134 and 158 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 117, one abstention, did not vote 46, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On 3rd item B. subpoints 29, 40, 49, 83, 89, 99, 100, 112, 127, 129 and 135, MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petric, Nebojsa Jović, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic and Ljubomir Mucic submitted the amendment together. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 117 abstentions, there were no 48 votes, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic, Ljubisa Maravić and Sreten Mitrovica. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 118, the abstentions did not vote 45, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003 as a whole. For 159 against 10, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completions of the BUDGETS SYSTEM After we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system in principle. For 162 against 23, the abstentions were not voted 15, out of a total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bills in particular, MP Bratoljub Janackovic withdrew the amendment to Article 2 and the amendment, which proposed that a new member be added after Article 4. The law, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill had become amendments of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to Articles 6, 9 and 11. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 117 abstentions, there were no 42 votes, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Mr Radojko Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Bora Stanimirović. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 44, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Mr Radojko Petric, Joca Arsic and Milos Nesovic submitted together on Article 8. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 119 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of a total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 123 abstentions, did not vote 76, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system in general. For 158, none of the 35 abstentions voted 7, out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENTS AND MEMBER STATES OF THE REFERENCE AND DEPARTMENT OF THE SRIME CARLORS As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become an amendment of the Committee on Culture and Information to Section 2. We approach the vote on the motion for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Committee on the Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac, in general. For 164, none of the abstentions were voted by 33, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac. Having considered all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 and wish you a pleasant holiday. Goodbye.
