ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20131	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 81. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, ask that the National Assembly decide to hold a midday session of the Assembly until 12.30 p.m., so that MPs can attend a memorial session on the death of former MPs of the National Assembly, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Federal MP Vlajko Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20132	I would like to put to the vote MP Zarko Obradovic's proposal that the Assembly meet until 12:30 and then take a break. For 127, against 11, abstention 11, did not vote 19, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly decided to take a break at 12:30 p.m. and then continue our work at 15.00 p.m. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radmilo Misovic, Petar Misic, Momcilo Trajković, Natasa Milojevic, Vera Marković, Miroslav Martic, Išpanovic Istvan, Branislav Pomorički, Zoran Bošković, Kermeci Karolj; Nada Kolundžija and Teodora Vlahović (before noon) and will be late Vojislav Doshen. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that at this session I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a UNIVERSITY LAW (principle debate) National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, came forward. That's the opening statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20133	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this bill contains two good things. First, I'll talk about what's good in law. It is good that the law generally prohibits political organisation at the university; and not only politically; this is also about some other types of organization, which are not in the nature of the university and in the nature of the student population, which has its own autonomous visions of traditional organization. Secondly, it's a good thing this law introduces a precedent, after which every new government will clean up at state universities. It is a good thing that the possibility of counter-constitutional retroactive review of university professors' status is opened here, and even better yet, the DOS minister gave an example in his own personal counter-constitutional act, long before the adoption of this law, as it is done. This precedent will be precious. What happened at the time of the Socialist rule will not happen, that Belgrade University is mostly an organised opposition to the regime, to be financed by the regime, and that it is organised by a political opposition by the work of its professors and one part by student activists. This will now be an extraordinary precedent, and there will be no more fear, so what the world will say, what it will do, what it will do. Now I'm going to talk about worse sides. This law bypasses the issue of ownership. It must refer to state and private universities and must specifically handle ownership rights, as it is a specific institution, where ownership rights must be fully specified, so as not to hit traditional university autonomy. That says the law was written unknowingly. Here, Minister Knezevic performed a real tirad on the situation at the universities under Tito's regime. He even called it the Golden Pericle Age in the history of our university. Of course, because Minister Gašo Knezevic was at the time extremely regimeally oriented. No one at the university could think freely under Tito, and if anyone dared, he had to hide it from his wife. Whoever else would have thought of the regime was automatically expelled. The regime interfered with what it should not, in scientific work, in teaching work, and autonomy and freedom of the university implies, above all, autonomy and freedom of scientific and teaching creation. There was absolutely no such thing under Tito. We have numerous cases of eviction and prosecution of university professors in prison, such as Professor of Law Faculty Michael Đurić, only to say critically at the scientific meeting on the proposal for constitutional amendments of 1971, and that is the Periklov Age. Of course, you're going back to college, and now the only person left on the college is the one who's silent, who doesn't interfere with anything, or the one who faithfully serves DOS politics. That, of course, can't take long and that precedent will come back to you from the moment you lose power, be sure. Here we have had a presentation of representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who are fraternizing me with their ignorance of the problem. The head of the parliamentary group, Mihajlov, praised the Law on the University of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from 1930. It's an example of a good university law to him. This is the time of the unconstitutional state: in 1929, King Alexander abolished the Constitution, and in 1930 he declared the laws a decree, with his uncut will, as an extra-constitutional and supremacy sovereign. Of course, it reminds us now of this situation, with Djindjic only arriving to abolish the Constitutional Court and has not yet abolished the Constitution. King Alexander abolished the Constitution. He went one step further. You who advocated the legislative work of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which had many good sides, because the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was, according to the Vidovdan Constitution, a modern constitutionally decorated democracy, with a legal order that was respected, and even after the Octobered constitution of 1931, it was solid, in a legal sense, arranged. The university was a state service, and the university professor was a civil servant, a certain rank, a certain class, and the regular professors of the university were appointed by the decreed king. The university professor was in the ranks of a state official, an executive official, and therefore he was not allowed to run for MP. No university professor in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia could have been a national MP, precisely because all professors of the university, who was a state, had the status of a state official. There's another problem here that's potential, and that's the issue of the Faculty of Education. Of course the communists, in one anti-constitutional, illegal way, have removed the Faculty of Education from the state university, but that's not all. Chuck, it's just the result of a previous act, a strict separation of the church from the state. It cannot be automatically returned to the Faculty of Philosophy at university until the status of the church and the status of priests are previously regulated. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, all priests had the status of civil servants and salaries as civil servants and, therefore, the Faculty of Education could be one of the universities of Belgrade. As a clerk, the priest received a call, a salary from the state, and after retirement, according to his rank. Every priestly calling was even with a certain rank of officials in the state administration. These things need to be considered. First, we need to find experts who understand that, to examine all of this, so that there are no such nebuloses, which, of course, suit you, but as a people and a state, can bring inconceivable damage to us. I'm not against going back to the University of Godology, but first we have to ask the question of priests; not the monk, the monks had a different status in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; but every priest of recognised religious communities, i.e. the confiscation of so-called. Traditional religions, which are these seven religions, where we fully agree in their identification, should first obtain the status of a civil servant, that the state thus acknowledges that they are performing a social - useful activity, and that from their socially - beneficial activities the public need for this social - useful activity, to educate highly educated experts. That makes sense, that's the point. In this case, there was a rather empty debate that showed fundamental ignorance of the issue. As for the management of the university, it has to depend on ownership rights. Ownership rights aren't even potential here. It's easy to say -- here, the state will leave the university to manage itself. Most of the boards of directors, i.e. in the management bodies, will represent teachers and students, but how will they do so at private university? Is that how private owners' rights can be denied? There's a potential for something that's pointless here, because it hasn't been studied until the end -- the question of getting the police into the university. In a civilized world, regular police cannot enter any university facility without the permission of a rector. However, there are specific university police in the civilized world. Back in 1978, I was at a study room at an American university, where university and campus buildings provide university police, and in Heidelberg I watched, now closed, but up to hundreds of years back in office, a student prison, because the university had in administrative terms such autonomy that his police were bringing in certain violations, that even the sentence of prison was pronounced, not particularly a great punishment, but a prison for offense. I'm not the one who's trying to get it back, far from it, but I'm letting you know how layly you've approached this whole problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20134	Mr. Seselj, will you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20135	Yeah, for the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20137	This problem should be considered first. Maybe you don't have any experts at the Ministry, and you don't know it yourself. I understand that, but then the Ministry needs to find experts, who will process it, and who will then allow the people of politics to lead the debate, to discuss, to seek what would most suit certain political interests. This is where it came only from political interests, without adequate scientific background, without adequate knowledge of the essence of the university. Next, we've had more stages in the development of our university. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as a legally regulated state, there have been many attempts to instrumentise the university for political purposes. These attempts were necessarily only by extreme political forces, communists and Latvians, and hence the mass beatings of communist and Latvian students, there were even bloody conflicts between them. The regime sought a way to avoid it, inadequately to the problem, and never completely avoided it. Under Communism, we had a pure party communist university, where no other opinion could be heard than an official regimeal ideology. Since 1990, the greatest ideological persecutors have gone to a completely opposite position, and then you can see who was whose scholarship student from the West, who was Fulbraitovac, who was the Karnegian, who led politics. Remember Vojin Dimitrijevic, remember Radet Stojanović, etc. They used to kick their college colleagues out of school, party sentences told them, were party secretaries, and then they were the bearers of democratic transformation. And of course, they want the continuity of the past time and that's what this continuity is based on. What this law did not try to resolve at all is a question of abuse of freedom of scientific creation; not ideological or political abuses, but bare plagiarism. The plagiarist has a lot at Serbian universities, and no legal act at all, we have seen this in the case of Professor Stevan Lilić -- what about when it was found that the professor had plagiarized his textbook, that he had taken over from other authors the whole piece and depicted it as his own? There's a copyright law that only allows private lawsuits. The family didn't want to sue, the perpetrator of the crime remained unpunished. And where's the academic sanctions now? There is no legal foothold in any previous law, nor in this legal project, nor in the statutes, anywhere. When you find that a plagiarist, if one whose share he stole, or his family, if it's a dead author, is not going to sue, you have no other legal basis, no possibility of removing a plagiarist from the university. There are many more of these things, which are likely to be debated when we discuss in particular, I would just have to ask you first, if you do not give me the warning again without reason - if I now ask the question of the behaviour of Minister Gaš Knezevic and his case, when he has organised his weekends - seminars for money to students and sold them questioning questions, will you consider it as a statement of the facts of private life?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20138	I'm going to evaluate, yes, from a private life that has nothing to do with this legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20139	So these are the facts of Gaš Knezevic's private life, in which I must not interfere, which I must not potentiate. Okay. If these are the facts of private life, let it remain that the National Assembly protects the people who do it, but if you don't let me talk about it, then you can't let him answer to what I couldn't explain. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20140	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20141	Oh, it's not like that. Okay, if I start talking now about how Minister Gašo Knezevic of BK Company got 20,000 euros to weigh their university, will that also be assessed as....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20142	If you continue to ask questions, I will have to follow the Rules of Procedure and give you a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20143	Wait, wait, I don't want to talk about it. (President: You know what the subject is. )......................................................................................................... if there's a threat of you doing it. You tell me what's coming to me if I talk about it, and I'll act like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20144	It follows you, since you have two warnings, taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20145	Well, then, I won't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20146	Okay, and the next question will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20147	I won't. Now every time I ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20148	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20149	Well, wait, I have to ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20150	No, you must know the Rules of Procedure as president of the parliamentary group... (Vojislav Seselj: Then how can I tell if you can talk about it...) )......................................................................................................... And as a professor of college, what the subject of the agenda is and what the law of the university is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20151	Please, the subject of the agenda is the law of the university. Under the university law, we should also discuss how to contain corruption at the university. How come... (A voice from the O.R. - Seselj law. When the law is about me, then I'll talk about myself. Prepare the law on Vojislav Seselj. Nice, you Dosmaniers can do anything, prepare that bill, and we'll discuss it. And if I ask the question now what is the situation at these private universities, so if I give the information that Slobodan Orlic has completed BK University in a month and a half, will that also be a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20152	It will be because it has nothing to do with the university law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20153	That doesn't matter either. Yeah. So, the fact that...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20154	Mr. Seselj, last time I warn you to stick to the agenda theme, whether it's a statement sentence or questionable, you have to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20155	We need to discuss the situation at our university, where corruption is very pronounced.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20156	You can ask that as a parliamentary question, you have the right by the Rules of Procedure to ask parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20157	Don't waste my time. You also told me about Free Orlic and his express studies I will never speak again. You warned me, I respect that and I'm done. But let me use three or four minutes now, I don't know exactly, because you interrupted me. We need to find out the modes of curbing corruption by law on the university. That's not what this law does. How to control the university from this huge infection, which is everywhere. Somewhere less. Where this law predicts who the exam can take, how many faces must be present. The law must stipulate that the student only takes exams based on the question he raises. This law would have to take a written examination to the minimum, because where there is mass testing, corruption is the biggest. Especially at the colleges of social sciences, because it's easy, in the meantime, to replace the paper, it's easy to get the second paper, with the money, the professor, and the student, instead of dropping the exam, to get the highest grade. It's one of the basic sources of corporation at the university. All colleges are sensitive to that. At all colleges it is present, and at the most massive is the most present, and that is the kind of colleges that students call out to the public. No one's trying to stop them, none of the authorities. Why, I wonder, and why this bill doesn't require a moduso that could contain corruption. Minister Knezevic here attacks the mass of study. Then he'd turn the university into an elite facility. That's what you had to tell the students when you were fighting for power and when you performed them in mass student demonstrations, that the tuition would be much more expensive than it was before and that they couldn't get into colleges as massively as they could before. Anyone who wishes well to our people and the state will allow mass study and sharpen the test criteria. You're going the other way. You make it possible for some elite, according to your criteria, to sign up, and then you just guarantee her a degree. No one can be guaranteed a degree, and the criteria need to be much stricter than they are today. But anyone who meets the basic conditions must be allowed to study. Not to introduce it, and if a student loses a year, he can continue his free studies, just because he's enrolled in that status. The moment he loses a year, he can't go on for free; there's another guy who hasn't lost a year and he's had to pay before, now he doesn't have to. It's a healthy competition at the university. But since you're not ready for healthy competition in politics, in the state, in any other sphere of life, of course you're not ready at university either. But remember what you promised the students, driving them crazy when you took them out on the street, and how you behave today (President - time). ..and what you're offering these same students today, what a proportion there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20158	Thank you. The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20159	I see there are aglosaxon students here asking questions about the jury, and then they're pulling that question out of the record. I won't answer any questions I've asked. My predecessor and I agree on the good side of the university law. These two are really good, but there's more good ones. First of all, it's good for these mild, mild lustrations, very mild. I know it's going to cause disdain. We knew that when we proposed such a solution. However, one sentence of the predecessor forced me to answer. In fact, it was misquoted again what I said. I did not characterise the self-government age as the Pericle golden century, but I said, compared to the 1998 law, it is the Golden Age of Pericle, because in the self-government age, 200 people have never lost a job at the university. So two years from now, what self-government hasn't worked out for a long, much longer time. I think it's a data that's significant. And, for the truth's sake: in 2000, approximately 200 people were promoted to regular professors based on the minister's decision, and the following year, when the law was applied by the DOS regime, it was done in 80 cases. Maybe the data isn't that important, maybe it was a simple mandate. Therefore, the data is relative and should be used very relatively. But I just want to say one thing -- it smells a little bit like at the time when the dean, or the minister, was able to set up professors that he might have broken the rules of service, or those conditions that the law dictated. That's not what I'm gonna say, but it can be interpreted like that. Everything in the law applies to private and state universities, except financing. That's my next line. And, finally, the height and number of college students is true that it determines the government, but absolutely according to the suggestions of the university, or university. So the government has no competence in determining neither the number of students nor the level of tuition. The government only determines how many students from the budget can finance and the government is trying to maximise the budget so that as many people as possible can finance it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20160	Thank you. The right to a replica caused by Mr. Seselj, the word of the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20161	With all due respect to Professor Seselj and not entering his legal knowledge, I will only have to conclude one thing: that this case is a mixed form and essence, i.e. the way the law is passed and the quality of the law. I'll show it at the 1930 university law. In 1930, the law was passed as it was passed, but the law was democratic and none of its members interfered in the management of the university. So we have a legislator who showed his intentions by enjoying full autonomy and state funding, in a way that allowed that university to get closer to modern European universities. In 1998, the law was passed through a democratic procedure, more quasi-democratic, but the law was the most undemocratic law; it subjugated Belgrade University, as well as all other universities: in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and Pristina. This shows that it should look at both form and essence -- in this case, the form was quasi-democratic, the 1998 law passed by parliament, but it was a non-democratic law that subjugated the university. We have a 1930 law that was passed the way it was brought in, but it allowed the university and Serbian intelligence to develop so that Serbia then entered into a fertile period. It's just something that needs to be recorded. One law, regardless of how it was passed, must receive recognition that it may not have received at the time; the court of history today considers it a good law guaranteeing Belgrade's freedom and autonomy and all other universities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20162	We're continuing the principle debate according to the application for word. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has a word, and the next declared speaker is the Messenger of the people Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for the adoption of a new law on the University of Serbia's proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the necessity to put aside the 1998 Law on the University, because, according to the reform government of the Republic of Serbia, this law has completely eliminated the autonomy of universities and universities. Over the past year and a half, we have witnessed many reform proposals, various laws by the Serbian government, which, thanks to the Serbian parliament's touch majority, were adopted. As far as these laws were reformable, it is best to confirm citizens of Serbia who have never been more difficult than they are now during the period of sanctions and NATO bombing. I point out this because the role of the university and the university in the education of Serbian citizens is of vital interest. If, as socialists, we accept one part of the proposal that the 1998 University Law was limited autonomy of universities and colleges, we cannot agree with that part of the proposal that scientific and educational programmes at the university and the university were not realised, and that equal status of teaching staff was compromised. I cite only one example: none of the 64 teachers of the Faculty of Philosophy who didn't sign the labor contract were missing. The SPS advocates the autonomy of universities and universities and the lack of political interference in scientific and teaching work. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia points out that every law is reformable and that it is a transitional character, and the SPS and other opposition parties are contesting it, we can say for this legislative proposal that it is still reformal. It is reformal because the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally realised that its current proposals for various laws have shown in practice that they are not reformable, so it has returned to the past, for such a criticised ten-year period of the SPS government, i.e. In 1992. The proposal for a university law, apart from the starting and final provisions, was prescribed by the 1992 University Law, when the SPS was in power. That's why he's reforming. With this bill of law, as MPs of the SPS, you have led us astray. How do we vote? How can we vote against our law that you simply took over? In so far's proposals for various laws, you have not adopted any well-intentioned opposition remarks, and now you are proposing our 1992 solution and you accept eight SPS amendments. But in order not to be reformers of our 1992 University Act, the SPS has through 31 amendments, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia eight, wanted to improve its law and adapt it to the present moment. Under one, in Chapter II - The founding and abolition of universities and universities, Article 13 and 14, we believe that the founder of universities and universities should be the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the Government of Serbia, because the establishment and abolition of universities and universities is of vital interest to citizens of Serbia and should be in the jurisdiction of the legislative authority, and not executives, which can, in that case, bring individual acts of establishment to the individual's will or will, in particular, the abolition of universities and universities. Secondly, the University Law does not define the role of universities and universities whose founder is a legal or physical person, and particularly their establishment, activity and protection of the rights of students and teaching staff. Three - that it is a copying reformist proposal and the provisions of Article 30(1). The bill, where the words "Yugoslav citizen" stand. It was in 1992, but now, thanks to the Dosovo authorities and the applicant of a shameful document on the re-arrangement of Serbia-Montenegro's relations, not only does the Yugoslav state not exist, but it is likely to be prohibited to say words -- a Yugoslav citizen. Four, Serbian citizens are not, and will not be in due course, so rich that they could allocate so much money to finance their children's studies without the help of society. For this reason, we believe that when determining the number of students enrolled in the second year of the study, less than two-thirds of students whose education is financed from the budget of the Republic cannot be determined. Fifth, in the achievement of scientific action, in Article 61. The bill provides an opportunity to establish the so-called law. "Incubator." This word may be known to famous government reformers, but our citizen, as well as the real scientific worker, is the flexible term "data base", which we Socialists suggest. The sixth, in Chapter IV - Protection of the Rights of Students and the Liability of Students, a new university, university institute - student parliament was established in Article 64. The SPS believes that the draft law needed to further identify how and select a new student body. We cannot accept the explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the student parliament has emerged as a significant democratic flow of student protests. Teached by experience, as a participant of student demonstrations from 1968, I fear this student parliament is not in the role of the current policy. The final provisions of Article 141 refer to a feedback, i.e. a retroactive action. According to what is explained in the proposal given by this member, it could sooner be called - a retrograde fact by individual teaching and scientific staff. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am taking this opportunity to inform the public as a Pozarevljan that the funeral of the Federal MP and former Serbian Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic is tomorrow in Pozarevc, at 14 pm, at the Old Fire Cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20164	The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 14.5 minutes. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word, and the next declared speaker is the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20165	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long-awaited bill on university. To begin with, as some constitutional order requires, I should express my principled position in relation to this law and before I bring it out, I would like to say that, as I do, the other Social Democrats in this House think. So there is one unquestionable, clear, unequivocal reason why we are behind this law and that is why we will support it. Simply, that law is much better than the existing one. It's something that's undeniable and that doesn't need to be questioned. We still need to add to that what the distinguished Minister Knezevic indicated at the beginning of his presentation as the initial premise in the process of adopting this law. These were two facts - one is that the law of transition character and the other is that we have plenty of time available for inclusion in something that we call the Bologna Process, which is actually the harmonisation of our normative solutions regarding the regulation and functioning of the university with European standards - then almost ceases every race for a more serious criticism of this law. I really have no intention of criticizing him, except in one single segment that really cannot be kept quiet, because it opens up a serious dilemma, one question that overcomes the importance of something that is the functioning of the university. It's a question of the relationship of this society to students and young people. So, I have to say that what was initial, the first solution that came to us as a proposal, and that came from the content of the bill, in my deep conviction, is certainly not at the level of that relationship that must be given to student participation in college management. So, booking for students' representatives, I say, less than 10% in university and university councils isn't enough, it's not responsible and it's not, I'd say, even allowed. I may, therefore, go back to what I said, which is a question that illustrates our relationship with young generations that come at all, towards students in particular. So, at least as a representative of that political group that has recognised, used and respected the results of student activity at a time when they were creators of student unrest and student democratic protests and thus created an atmosphere necessary for the historical transformation in this society, I must say that this population must inevitably participate in its environment in a better and better quality way, which is the university. I really can't agree with those ultraconservative attitudes that were brought here, that, apparently, they're some kind of yellow children sitting there, looking at their teachers, listening to them carefully, and after four years leaving that university as national or international intellectuals. Or, with another variant of the same way of thinking, that these are some pieces of human material that we're pushing into a tube called the process of education, through which they go like objects, and eventually they come out as a product of that process. No, they're not. These are living people, adult people, above-average educated people. It's a better part of the human potential this country has. So when I say that, then I want to point out -- the question of student participation in university management is not something that is our concession to students. That's not supposed to be. It's not something that our concession to some foreign country dictates to us through the Bologna Process what it's supposed to be like to run the university. The question of student participation and its extent in the management of the university must be an expression of our clear notion that we must give this population a chance to participate adequately in the management of these processes, because it is the interest of this society, because it gives new quality. Only with this play can we go in the direction that is desirable, which is the root transformation of this society, abandoning ultraconservative concepts and transforming this society into a European one. So, I didn't just say this as someone who was pleased to say that in the ranks of the Social Democratic MPs, and those people who were in the narrow leadership of the 1992 and 1996 student unrest, I said this as someone who really believes that Serbia's perspective is in trust and rely on those who are coming, and these are young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20166	Mr. Shabic, did you quote the presentation of MP Alexander Vukic? (Employer Shabic, from the place: I didn't even mention Alexander Vukic.) You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Vlatko Sekulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20167	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all the reform laws, as well as this one today, proposed by the government of experts under the jurisdiction of the minister of education and sports, Gaša Knezevic, whose moral and professional qualities were presented by Serbian Radical Party MPs in their request for a vote of mistrust to such a person, have said a lot as well as the quality of today's draft law on the university. This law, like many others, as someone said in this congregation, is like cat's love -- no more shit or less effects. I can add that the bill wants another institution under this DOS government to fall into the hands of the mafia. I followed the discussion closely, and I must admit that instead of the arguments to a good 1998 university law, there is always the desire of individuals for privileges and for their small position. The 1998 university law prevents nepotism, i.e. familiarity in the scientific and teaching process, which is a cancer wound at universities, or universities, and also criminal activities. The return of this law to the application of the law since 1992, the law to which it has passed the deadline, is actually seen by DOS authorities and processes where Serbia is going. The law maintained a transitional state from one system to another, through which the country passed and proved to be completely inadequate. The government of the National Unity Law of the University since 1998 has been very precise and clearly the entire university system, with respect to property relations, observes from two parts; the first part is manageable, and the second part is organisational. In the first, the management work wanted to prevent the chaotic state of the university and the university. The rectors and deans represent the management bodies of the university, for which the executive body has the right to decide who and how to dispose of state money at the university. The rectors and deans had the rights and responsibilities of the company's director and thus a market moment was represented, which eventually liberalises the establishment of private universities, so anyone who heads state universities will have to think on the market. On the other hand, we have an educational part for which this law prescribes complete autonomy, which refers to the independence of the adoption of curricula and the implementation of the teaching and scientific - research process at the university, i.e. at the university. In expert bodies, such as the teaching and scientific councils, the rectors and deans do not have the right to vote. By regulating these two parts, the 1998 law has increased the efficiency and effectiveness of the full performance that has taken place at the university. On the one hand, management administration was reduced, and on the other hand there was a positive selection among students, by affirming the most valuable and most capable students. The University Law since 1998 has presented one human, organisational, social and psychological progress and it is a contribution to the state, national, as well as to the individual plan. You are asking why the Government of the Republic of Serbia joined the draft of this law in 1998, and the answer is - the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the functioning of this state, and the State University is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue to create the personnel necessary for the development of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20168	Mr. Zivanovic, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20169	By law of 1998, the government wanted to revolve and reform the university's basic task, which is teaching and scientific work. The university is funded by citizens, because they fill the budget and therefore manage the university through the government, i.e. at the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20170	The word is by MP Vlatko Sekulović. He's giving up. After that, MP Bora Stanimirovic. Here you go. Let MP Bratoljub Janackovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20171	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I would like to say at first something about what has been discussed in the last two days, or criticism of the 1998 Law, but not to defend that law, but to point to the truth. In several discussions, the deans, according to the 1998 law, passed curricula of basic, specialist, master's and doctoral studies. However, Article 105 of Article 2 of the 1998 Law reads: "More colleges bring curricula plans and programmes of basic, specialist, master's and doctoral studies, according to sections, groups or directions". This suggests that this 1998 law must have had weaknesses. When we talk about these weaknesses (some of us have heard), they refer, first of all, to the choice of teachers, to the acquisition of teacherships and to the choice of governing bodies, i.e. the choice of dean and rectors. This law, in any case, fixed something regarding the state of autonomy. However, as far as autonomy is concerned, it can be said, it seems apparent, because we have decided that the advice can be chosen by certain authorities, i.e. deans, rectors, etc., that the advice makes up the majority of the teaching-science council. However, one member of the bill, which is Article 13, reads - when the founder of the university, i.e. the university of the Republic, acts on the establishment of a university, i.e. the university is brought by the government. I would not mention this if the 1992 law did not state that the law on the establishment of a university, or college, was passed by the National Assembly. You see, the difference is huge. So, in this case, we can choose deans, we can choose rectors, we can have some rights that we had by passing the 1998 law (when it comes to learning and other rights), but if the government can pass an act on the establishment, or the abolition of a university, or college, then that autonomy is not complete. This so much before and under the 1992 law, it was largely decided on the basis of a decision by the National Assembly. However, the promoter used the 1998 law; it is a Article 14 that reads exactly as the draft law we now have on the agenda. It must therefore be acknowledged that the government has also taken advantage of some of the benefits of this law since 1998, in order to at least partially reduce or endanger the autonomy of the university. It is well known who can make a decision on the establishment of a university, or university. You can see that the government is actually the one. If he does, he knows how he usually does it. Secondly, what was particularly controversial - criticism that comes to the 1998 law primarily referred to Article 165 where each teacher, after the adoption of the 1998 Law, was obliged to sign a labour contract. Please, we've passed the Labour Act. Practically, now every employee will have to accept that contract. Thirdly, most importantly, I mentioned it last time -- in 95% of the cases we used the 1992 law. This suggests that a reform cannot be specifically discussed, especially when it comes to the reform that began in 1992. Thus, the 1992 law was practically written for the 21st century. We can't mention some of the changes that are and how important in these members that are mentioned. Last time I said, why wait a year and a half. We've received some arguments from the minister that can be justified, but that's not the main reason. Certainly the main reason is that the 1998 law favoured both the current authorities and the previous authorities to decide on the choice of managing authorities. When the law was passed in 1998, about 17% of the dean was replaced. After October 5th, under the same law, about 95% of the deans, directors, etc. were replaced. So you see how long it's been waiting. It's been waiting a long time since we've already had the 1992 law prepared. I believe that it could have happened very quickly, right after those changes, that this law was passed, because the main reason is that we at universities, or in colleges, had one disorderly state. When it comes to choice, it is impossible to make choices under some 1992 law, which was not valid, and to combine with the 1998 law and the bill of law that we are now adopting. Who could have gotten there? Last time I said-- the most abuse was just for the last year and a half, at least as far as the election is concerned. The minister said earlier that 80 solutions were signed for regular professors, as the 1998 law provided for the selection of regular professors to confirm, based on all those procedures, the minister of education. I don't think it could have done that. It's possible that this number is true, but it's one thing for sure -- that procedure, that technology of work came in itself, and so the minister could sign it. I'd say something more concrete right now. There are a lot of very controversial members we'll talk about later. I'd point only to Article 39, where we're talking about probationary deadlines. Someone criticized that we had given a lot of test deadlines before, starting with some political situation, to get students, etc. That's not true. Next, someone said there are countries in the West that have one or two test deadlines. And that's true. However, their education system, their work technology, their attitude towards students, according to the programme, is such that they can have one test period, if it is known that the professor has fewer students. We're still enrolling 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 students a year. We teach at the amphitheater in the presence of 500 students. Please, can you cut the test deadlines for that student, as we have tried the amendments. I'm sure you can't. To do that, we need to change the role of teachers, change the role of students. The teacher must be more coordinator. We have to keep letting students through various forms, colloquiums, different semesters, etc. They're absorbing all the parts they do every day. What's going on with us? Our education system is obsolete, and it's like 120 years ago. There's an ex department, a professor can give a lecture like I do today in front of 250 MPs; whether or not someone will listen, it doesn't matter, because no one after that lays. When's he gonna lay down? It's only June of the month, and he's been hearing about some cases for two years. Such students, in such a system, surely need more deadlines. That's why we advocate that colleges, according to their terms, according to their technology, first of all according to their human abilities, organise test deadlines for students at the time that suits them the most. Here are the two most controversial, October and April deadlines. There are university teachers right when they claim that there is no lecture during those test deadlines. However, what students will choose, whether they will come to a lecture or go where it is mandatory or not required, or go to the exam, it is known what they will choose. Furthermore, Article 69 - when we passed this law in 1992, we discussed it a lot, and now there have been discussions on the Committee – what about teachers who teach foreign languages in German universities. There was also a proposal at the time (and I think that now one amendment has been accepted, it will probably pass) that foreign language universities can teach both science doctors and receive certain titles that belong to them under the law. As for the members of 101 and 102, I mentioned earlier that this is about the rector's choice, and it's a similar article in 109 on the dean's election, so I don't repeat it twice. We have one amendment and our urgency is that these deadlines for selecting the dean, prodding, rector, shrinking. Perhaps it was a better option for the dean and the rector to be elected for four years and then he no longer has the right, at least consecutively, to compete for the same function. I point out this because the state of our universities, or colleges, is such that we choose the Dean for two years and he can only get into business in the first year, to do something more normal, but since many things he hasn't met he's just getting into work. The next year, the election year, the collective fights start again, the elections are likely to start again in the future (if a new law is proposed, as we have heard) a better variant for the election to take place for four years and that no one can be chosen in parallel twice. What is most controversial now, and I would once again about Articles 143 and 142, respectively, 143 and 144, and last time I mentioned that the greatest weaknesses of this law are precisely in its retroactiveness to select teachers into individual titles and for criminal responsibility for all those who have committed any offence during their election term. This is about all the workers, so it's not just about the ones who were in office. If Article 144 is accepted, I think it would be good, regardless of what the Committee has accepted, or the Government has proposed and accepted one amendment, one amendment that has only somewhat mitigated the situation, but it is more likely that this whole member and MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for this law. Otherwise, we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20172	The People's Messenger Bratoljub Janackovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20173	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation with some good news. The first good news for me and New Democracy is that three private universities and two private universities work in Serbia. School fees are paid on them. The state fund for education doesn't school, about the cost of budgets, not one student on them. Why any of them? The principles of competition in the education and skills programme also call for such a possibility. The other good news for me is this: the diplomas of one of the colleges mentioned have been accredited to 102 countries of the world and are valid without no nostrification. The companies that came to this space, and the parent came from these countries, respect this fact in the contract of employment. The third good news is we're invited to the Bologna Process. The Belgrade Faculty of Agriculture is not limited to taking courses and in co-operation with Southeast Europe's agricultural colleges, for example, opening a three-year course for farmers, with two years of basic studies and a year of specialisation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is not good news that, in my knowledge, however, based on the modest information that I have, no college, university, or institute enjoys revenue from a protected patent, invention or achievement of intellectual property, which is won by public money or by a combination of public and private money, commercialized in a product or service. Here's another projected good news, Serbian Prime Minister of Education attended the signing of the first two-year contract between the Faculty of Technology in Leskovac and Professor Mark Jovanovic. The professor was hired by a six-hour contract and used the right to a textbook. The university paid an agreed sum of money once, with a monthly salary of 30,000 dinars, with the right to cancel the contract. The three-member board, known on the basis of accession work, assigned the professor the title of an extraordinary professor. If you've heard this news, know it's good news, but unfortunately it's not Serbs. This news is from another university, but not yet from our country. The second good news is that "The School of Economics in Nis has accepted a proposal to amend the programme under the "Economic Doctrine", proposed by the Council of the Best Students of the Faculty of Economics in Nis". The program is published on the website of the Faculty of origin. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we couldn't hear this news in Serbia. Maybe we'll hear it. When? Then when some of these colleges on their site publish a list of the most successful products: best of their students and their current icariary positions, as an advert to the top product. The law doesn't limit us, but it doesn't encourage enough. The creative autonomy of an individual is not the same as the autonomy that is protected from competition, from demands from society, from comparisons and evaluations. To return to the principle of good news: "Instead of the great Sorbonne, there is a multiuniversity, with the possibility of combining to their own needs. "Truely, this law does not prevent such a possibility. On the contrary." But personal creation and initiative are also needed. Indeed, here is one truly good news in today's press: "The Minister of Education of the Serbian Government, Gašo Knezevic, is an honorary member of the Association of Graduated Students of the Faculty and University. At a ceremony about the 10th year college, where the Association was founded, Knezevic estimated that private universities and colleges have priority over the great state in the fight for quality. The state colleges, according to him, are difficult to cope with in this fight and in monitoring the world conditions of academic education. Knezevic praised the university's way of working and estimated that the university is on track to join the European system of higher education. "Despite comments from the close parliamentary benches, this is really good news and Serbia has to go that way. Dearly beloved, in a month at universities in America and a good number in Europe begins the "need for cathedrals" and courses. New contracts are being sought, the old and the majesty of competition at major universities brings "surprises" from the province and vice versa, the provinces are going to be taken with large cathedrals. It's not our story yet, and it doesn't have to be, but the answers have been sought, searched and found in this direction. Yesterday's example from a university is proof that the reforms are really on the move. Dear Members, I call on the Ministry of Education to publish and propose to this Parliament a strategy for the development of higher education, as a document to say when the transition and until when this model is in force. Time is our burden, not our asset. Dear Ministers, I know that you and your Ministry are making great efforts and that you already have a prepared development strategy, not only of higher education, but of overall education. Also, I know that part of my demands, which went through the principle of good and bad news, for this period of time may be too radical and that there is still no general political consensus and mood among Serbian citizens to introduce current and root reforms. I deeply believe that you are estimating well, that you have well timed the order of the move in the Ministry to which you are in charge and that by the end of your term in office in this House, the real reform law of primary and secondary education and the real reform law on the university will be presented. For that reason, I'm sorry if you come across a few mild words of criticism. Know that New Democracy and DOS will support you on this difficult road to pursue the real reform laws, both in basic and secondary education, and at university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20174	Thank you. I ask MP Petar Petrovic -- does he want to speak to us now, since we have five minutes until the break, or after the break? [[Employer Petrovic, from post: After break.]] After break - 15.55) Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We are continuing to discuss the University Law in principle, according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP Petar Petrovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Velimir Simonovic. (Serb Radical Party emissaries enter the hall. Let's just wait for the MPs who don't participate in the quorum to take their seats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20176	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when the agenda for this session arrived, and when the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party saw what was on the agenda, we expected, not to see the materials arrived, to come towards proposed legislative projects to achieve real reform in education, not only in higher education, but also in secondary and primary education. Unfortunately, it has become a rule that, as governments in Serbia are changed and the minister who heads the Ministry of Sports or the Ministry of Education, or what the ministries are already called, first changes the Law on the University. According to the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, to reach the university, it is necessary that first those who come to the university finish primary education finish secondary education because they are recruited by higher education staff. Unfortunately, we are now only talking about a new draft law on the university, and in a few days we should only talk about some small changes to the Law on Fundamental Education and the Law on Middle Education. I won't be rude when I say that certain ministers, when they come to the place of Minister of Education, think that history starts with them and that if they change the Law on the University, they're done changing the law on education in the full sense of that word. But don't hold on to it. It is now the matter of those who propose laws and those governments that gain confidence in parliament to trust and justify it. I'm going to stick to a few remarks about the university bill. This is how Article 32 discusses how the dean's choice is being made in colleges, and there's been given full freedom to colleges so that they can make a completely independent choice of the dean. However, I still have to make one parallel with the proposed laws on basic and secondary education, i.e. with changes and additions, where, when proposed, the school directors, are appointed or elected on school boards, are given consent, i.e. that the ministry still has to give consent. What's the college dean is the headmaster of high school, normally with bigger or smaller powers. I think there was supposed to be a particular parallel, or a certain similarity, that is, to make the choice similar. Many spoke of Articles 141, 142, and 143. The bill on university law and I won't talk about it, because there's already been a lot of suggestions, remarks, but I'd stick to Article 144. It is true that the government has accepted amendments to this article and has withdrawn it from the procedure, i.e. it will not be an integral part of the bill. However, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party felt that this text should not have come into the bill at all, and because of the general public, I would have read what, among other things, was proposed in Article 144: "against teachers, co-workers and other employees at the university or college who, at the time of the 1998 University Act, abused the position or exceeded the powers which he had under the 1998 University Act, was initiated disciplinary proceedings under the law." Paragraph 2 states: "If the teacher, associate or employee of Article 1 of this Article ceases working relationship before six months from the date of entry into force of this law, the procedure referred to in Article 1 will not be carried out." Please, where there is one law that can be freed, simply put, by some people's responsibilities, if they've done the deed according to the previous law. I don't think this kind of text was allowed into the procedure at all. In Article 42 of this Law, it's about how many exams a student can pass over next year, so all colleges are equalized by saying that (I don't read the papers) for the first year if he has seven can carry two, if he's 9 or 10, then he can carry three, etc., so all colleges are equalized regardless of the weight. I think the law had to leave it to the colleges to be able, depending on the weight of the university and everything else, to determine how many students could pass the outstanding exams in the next year's study. On the other hand, we're talking about school reform, we're talking about the University Act, and nowhere in any place is we're talking about what high-level personnel this country needs for the next five or ten years. It had to come to some member of the law that the staff were planning, to say which colleges could teach the staff, or students for whom the government would bear the cost of education, and for those who wanted to be educated, to be so-called. self-financed students, that colleges themselves determine what the price is and to determine in what number these students can study at these universities. Otherwise, we will continue to educate high-level, highly educated staff for the Employment Community, or the Labour Market Office, as it is now called, without knowing what time period they will be able to employ. Therefore, the Serbian Unity Party believes that it is necessary to connect education with the planning of personnel, to see what is necessary for this country, which are high-level personnel necessary in the next five or 10 years, in order to know what we are paying for and what we will be studying. Due to all the above-mentioned parliamentary club, the Serbian Unity Party cannot support the University Law proposal and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20177	Thank you. The word is made by MP Velimir Simonovic, and the next one is Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20178	Ladies and gentlemen, although it has been said that this law has a temporary character - let's hope it doesn't last more than a year - this is still an opportunity to conduct a serious debate on the problems of our universities. I'm taking the opportunity to say a few words about this law. I'll start with Articles 10, 11, 12 and 13, where it's about who's the founder of universities or colleges, so that they can be both private universities and colleges. According to this proposal, the state is getting too involved in how and why someone will start a private college. So, on page four, it says he has to submit a draft and explain the reasons for the founding of colleges and universities. What would someone explain their reasons if they wanted to invest money in starting a private college? It's just like asking someone to start a new private company to explain the reasons why they founded this company. Let's just say that education is a delicate job, but not to the extent that we get involved in its elaborates, its reasons and so on. The only thing a state can do, or government, if it estimates that a private college is weak with curricula and programs and there aren't enough good professors, is to say - diplomas from those universities won't nostify at state universities, and that's all. Therefore, the one enrolled in a private university, he pays the tuition there and risks whether the diploma is going to apply to him somewhere. So the individual takes the risk, and his state doesn't have to guarantee anything; he can say, from a university like that, we're not going to nostifize. That's one of my notes. Second, around the study; therefore, first regular studies, four, five or six years, then specialist, then master's, then doctoral, and then with us young people constantly learn and take classes, they can't finish all schools until they're thirty. At our universities, it's impossible for someone to doctor, say, until they're twenty-five years old. Right now, let me tell you that this is not a rare thing at universities in Europe and the world, that very young people are doctoring. These talented students of ours have to be spotted by their professors in the course of their studies, when they can write already some scientific work, very serious, and while students can prepare themselves so that in a year or two days after graduation they become doctors of science. Like this, it's too late for us. We have cases where someone reports a doctor's thesis when they're already approaching age 40, when people stop doing science. The best years for creative work are from the second to the third, possibly until the fifth year, and with us, the reduced learning and laying are tested. I haven't written about this amendment, but this is one of my general remarks to think about it and give it a chance, opportunity and opportunity for young people to be able to do big jobs, to be able to doctorate as very young people, even until they're twenty-five years old. Then, about enrolment; therefore, here, according to this proposal, you can enroll anyone, even if you have an average score of six; for the magistrate we are looking for an average score of eight and that stays here. But that's not good. So far it's been like this: if the candidate doesn't have an average score of at least eight, then he can enroll in specialist studies that last a year, but with the recommendation of two professors; he may have been extremely good on some cases, so these teachers will recommend that he enrol in specialist studies. If he finishes specializing and wants to study further, he can move on to master's studies. I think it was supposed to be done that way. Next, the test schedules are coming in, the exams are being passed, and I have amendments. For a student who regularly attends lectures and exercises and learns over the year three exam deadlines, January, June and September are quite enough. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that teaching is a technological process, like any other technological process in factories. For example, if we introduce some extraordinary deadlines, October, so April, we disrupt that process, there's nothing to teach. Then students prepare exams instead of studying and listening to lectures and exercises. Well then, Article 52, as far as you can pass the exam in the next year: the two, the four, and the eight. But, please, our ultimate goal must be that the studies end year after year. It's inadmissible. I'll tell you later on about the fact that we're talking about a repeat in college. It's not entertainment, please, how can someone come to study, to be a student, to study science and repeat? He found himself in the wrong place; he or she is unable to study, which is less likely, or simple to learn, does not carry out his or her duties. Given the situation now that a student can get a dormitory home, very cheaply, that he can have lunch for 15 dinars at a student restaurant -- and that lunch is nothing worse than what we eat in our restaurant downstairs, but it costs only 15 dinars. Citizens, taxpayers, the state pays that price difference. If so, then students must take their duties more seriously. We can't allow repeat study and so much more than studies last. With our higher education system, ladies and gentlemen, we would have brought rich countries like Sweden or Switzerland in Europe for ten years to a beggar stick; we are, as far as higher education is concerned, wasteful. It's just inadmissible. From our theory and practice, we have to rule out the concept of the graduate, of repeating the year, of passing the exams, it has to disappear from our higher education, and it has to be our ultimate goal. Here it says, Article 48, imagine, please: a student who does not meet up to one third of his obligations during the winter semester can apply to enter the summer semester. Well, what was he doing if he didn't meet a third of his obligations? Then we have to wonder if he's here to study or solve the unemployment problem at all. Furthermore, it is proposed that the insolvency period lasts six months, and if with a graduate exam, such as at all technical schools, it is given for a year. I remind you that the studies at the technical colleges last nine semesters, and in the tenth there is no teaching; and in the ninth little, two or three cases, possibly four; the tenth semester is scheduled for the making of graduate work. Therefore, there are no absolvents. He has to finish his duties and graduate. We have to do this in our higher education system, that when someone enters 2002/03 in September of the month at the university they will have to know exactly, after four or five years, who will be given a degree in June and no more days of study. Exactly to say-- June 20th, at the end of the fifth year, he gets a degree; as it is at many universities in Europe, not to mention America, where it is absolutely, absolutely precise. So much has been complicated about defending doctoral dissertation, magistrateship, etc.; let's just say, the very application of doctoral dissertation. It starts with the cathedral, then the commission, and then the cathedrals come back, and then it goes on high, they write about the similarity of the candidates and the subject, if it can be a doctoral dissertation, and then they form at the university some organs, larger or whatever they're called, and they give consent. I'm asking, please, if it's a technical college, let's say a construction school, which is more competent than a scientific university to assess whether the candidate and the subject are similar. I was in one such council for natural mathematical sciences, and for two years at the university, believe me, we only had one debate about the choice of one professor, whether we'd give him consent and never again, it's a pure formalism, and we only extend those deadlines to people, there's often no quorum, etc. I think it can all end in college. As soon as it comes to one science -- philosophy, rights, whatever you want -- there's no more competent authority than the scientific and teaching council of that university. It's also a question of whether the university is just an association of colleges, or whether it can do other things, as it has been here so far, which is that it can organize classes, for example, in postgraduate studies. We had a so-called. Centre for Multidisciplinary Studies at Belgrade University. If some scientific area is multidisciplinary, then it can't be very multidisciplinary, it can be two, eventually three colleges and then they can organize such a class. This Center for Multidisciplinary Studies doesn't have its own classroom, he organizes studies, and there are teachers from various universities. And what they would do there, let them do better in their colleges. If, for example, we want to organize such studies at the engineering college, but we need technologists or maybe electricians, so we're going to be among the colleges to organize such a class. He doesn't need a university at all. And I haven't written an amendment about it, but there have been discussions before, and opinions have been shared. There are supporters of it, but there are also people who think it's not good and that the university shouldn't be involved in organising classes. About the language; I only have an amendment to which titles can be given by people who teach languages in German universities. But here I'd like to draw your attention to one thing: whether to teach foreign languages in German universities at all. We're not going to drag our students by the handle from age seven to thirty to provide them with language learning. Whoever wants to communicate with the world, who wants to be educated, put some effort into it. What's strange to me, which I'll say when primary and secondary schools are on the agenda, how it's possible that someone who wants to learn a language, for example. English, since the third year of elementary school, so if not before, then learn in high school, so eight, nine, ten years doesn't teach the language. There's something wrong, ladies and gentlemen. So a young man must learn at least one foreign language in high school or learn on his own. You have in Belgrade Kolarchev University, foreign language institutes, etc. (President: Mr Simonovic, please return to the topic of the agenda, and this is the Law on the University. Here you go. There are more places where anyone can learn a foreign language if they want to. The state doesn't need to force someone to learn a foreign language if he doesn't want to. Especially those who will teach languages. For example, in engineering college, they don't know machine termology, they just don't learn and they don't need to know. There are technical dictionaries - English, Russian, German, French - with us, so the student of technology, after learning the general language in high school or in some other way, will take the technical dictionary, literature, learn 200, 300 to 500 words, and he has solved the problem. Therefore, there is no need to learn foreign languages in German universities. I see that all governments seem rather reluctant to accept amendment MPs. Around Article 98, where it says that a professor of university retires at 65 years of age, but that the Council can extend his working relationship by one year or two and up to 67 years; this solution is not good. When it was the 1992 law, I submitted the same amendment to a socialist government that didn't accept it either. This is an automatism. We automatically extend the work to 67 years. If we have medical-statistic evidence that the human century has been extended, I don't mind, so let it stand in the law that the professor can work up to 70, to 75, as long as we agree. We shouldn't allow arbitraryness like this, then there won't be any major colleges that they're going to say -- we're going to extend this year two, and we're not going to do this. That's out of the question. Therefore, it allows for an automatic extension of work to 67 years of life. Now comes the hardest thing in this law, and these are transitional and final provisions. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for a moment to absorb the fact that our colleagues from the opposition are against these members, against the retroactive fact of the law. Come on, let's look at those of us who make up the parliamentary majority here, should we let the university law have members who provide the retroactive fact of the law? She did not record the history of this country's Serbia that a law has ever been passed in the field of education, science or culture that had a retroactive fact. I've been very interested in it these days, and I've been told by some of my fellow lawyers that there's no such thing as being recorded in parallel law. A fellow minister says it's some kind of mild retroactiveity. Please, it can't be: it's either retroactive, or it's not. I'm just going to tell you this-- retroactiveness shouldn't be brought into the legal system. So, first of all, I'm asking for an apology. There are a lot of lawyers here among you, but I'm allowing myself so much freedom to say something about this thing. Retroactivity should not be introduced into the legal system, especially if it violates one of the basic pillars of the legal order, if it disturbs legal certainty or if it damages those to whom it is directed; or as you tell lawyers to addressees or to violate constitutional rights or violate equality before the law, etc. I will not give a classic example of the 1946 retroactive law, which has caused great damage to the citizens of Serbia and to the whole of Yugoslavia. The consequences of this will be tremendously great. The other day, a colleague from the Soviet Union, and otherwise a professor in Kragujevac, was listed as being one of the following: yes, let's say, someone who became a doctor, and he could have been a professor for a period of three years now under the law, he could have had lectures and exams, so now he can go back to a lower calling or be expelled from the university, but what about those exams. Then my esteemed colleague, Knezevic, explained that there is retroactivity and futuro. So, like this, we'll tell him, sir, you've done lectures, exercises and exams so far, and that's all right, we'll give you that, you've been good, but we don't give you any more. So, retroactivity in futurio, so we don't challenge students, because we can't cancel their exams because we're causing their revolt. Gentlemen, this is about these people who were elected under the previous law or were promoted to higher calling, and what was the most common case, except for regular professors, is already re-election for a year or two, as to who. It's an opportunity to sort things out in an elegant way, without the excitement of the university. A new expert commission is being formed, a competition is being called and it is said: a colleague, and last time you didn't have enough qualifications, so we chose you, and since you didn't fix those qualifications, you didn't publish any new scientific papers, etc. We won't choose you. And then it's over. You know, the university has permanent jobs just for regular professors, and all other places are re-election, and when we don't re-election, then it goes from university and there's no one to complain about. That's the rules of the game. Therefore, all of this can be solved in such a way, without any excitement. One more thing, since I've been interested in these days, I've learned that no such things have been recorded in parallel law. Allow me a brief quote of the American Constitution. The third position, member of the first, section nine of the Constitution of the United States, reads as follows: "No law on the loss of honorable or civil rights Edge as facto law will be passed by Congress." I saw in the European document that retroactive laws are extremely harmful, depressing and unfair. My esteemed colleague, Knezevic, here, in his exposé, said with a lot of patheticity that this assembly has a historic chance to pass a law with a retroactive fact. I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, and without pathetics, let's not let this pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20179	Thank you. The remaining DOS parliamentary group is 23 minutes, and there are five other registered speakers. The word has been made by MP Dragisa Marinkovic, the next registered speaker is MP Dragisa Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20180	Twenty-three more minutes, five of us. Professor Simonovic, did you hear that? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, when we say the university, frankly speaking, I think of students first of all, I think of these young people upstairs who are watching us from there now on. For me, they're number one at the university. What I'm talking about all of a sudden applies first of all to them. It's been a long time since I graduated college, so I haven't had any major contacts with the university. When I received this bill, I tried to talk to people who work at the university and who teach, and first of all to talk to students. Frankly speaking, Mr. Minister, you have praise for the law, and above all these young people think that now the university will separate from the daily policy, stand alone, which is extremely positive. To be honest, the time behind us has caused some of the things that happened at the university that we didn't want to do. With the threat of the country, primarily with the financial threat of people, with the fall of morals in this country, there has been a fall in morals and the threat of the university itself. There was something that, in our time, when we were older, there was no, unfortunately, corruption. All this crisis at the university and everything that's been going on has been reflected on these young people and in the most tragic, most drastic form has hit these people who are, in fact, the foundation on which this country needs to rest. This law since 1998 has obviously caused a negative selection amongst the university's professorial staff. Those who are obedient progressed, those who are politically alike progressed. I think these people will be one of the stones of stumbling for the proper implementation of this law, the way it is. Also, college plans and programmes have fallen far behind in what the modern world is doing today, Europe. We're going to need effort and work, especially the people at the university and you at the Ministry, to catch that contact and join in some more modern way of studying. This more modern way of studying means that when people finish college at the same time they're ready to work. We all sit here know that's not the case. Just a few years after college and some practical work, our people are capable. The reason for this is precisely this programming discrepancy of the sea of people who hand over certain objects, which have run over time. No one needs that anymore. I made sure of my firm's case. I was almost looking for a marketing manager for my firm. A few 15 people checked in. Unfortunately, the weakest time he came to us from economic college. When you ask someone to be a marketing manager, and he doesn't know how to present himself, but to present himself in three or four sentences -- born then and then, he has an average score of 8.5, which means he's an extremely valuable student, that he's spent a lot of work and effort to finish that college; but that's all -- that means he doesn't know how to represent himself to get a job, because whoever taught him that class didn't know how to teach him that. In the end, there is something that has always haunted me as a man, and I have given the team the amendment to 86, so I ask you MPs, when they are amended, to support me. These are the individuals at the university who are taboo topic in the story; they are teachers who harass these young people, they have them for years with one or two unfinished objects, and for no reason. To be honest, I used to wonder -- when you fail some exam, is it possible that these three, four, five months you've been preparing, or the whole year you've been listening, when you don't recognize what you got on the exam? These people are very strange and sometimes extremely complicated, with their attitude in college they want to prove their greatness. I almost hear that at the Faculty of Economics, on some class in the second, third year, some accounting, there's about 5,000 students pulling the same class. It's also in medicine, at Electrical Engineering, it's at all colleges. So I gave the amendment to Article 86, so I ask you to support it when it comes to amendments, where it's given to students, when it's re-election, to say no, that professor no longer deserves to teach at this university, because he doesn't know how to teach, he doesn't know how to behave, he doesn't have a good relationship with students.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20181	The word has a National MP, Dragisa Popovic. The next person registered for the word is MP Igor Soldatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20182	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, esteemed guests, respected citizens of Serbia, gentlemen of the students, it is good that my predecessor focused his exposure on students; they are the future of our society and they deserve to take part in the debate on the law on the university and reforms of higher education that are under way in Serbia. My presentation will be telegraphically announced, let's see what our goals are if higher education reforms are under way in Serbia. We can look at this under the slogan -- from vision to concrete steps. In his presentation, the minister said that we would reform the education system in Serbia in a few steps. I appreciate that this is one real step, the foundation of a new education system, based on what is good in our education, and that we are now harmonising it with the Bologna process and with all the documents that are currently in circulation, and as regards the orientation of our education towards Europe. The reform within the system should achieve the following: increasing the efficiency of the higher education system, in terms of reducing the number of those who give up their studies, as well as reducing the length of study; this is what is most painful for all of us, for our society; we have heard here that the average of study is eight years, that the success of the regular completion of the study is about 12%, that the success of the exam is somewhere between 10% and 20%. Right away, the question is, how much does it cost? It's costing us a lot. That's what I'd agree with those speakers who said we were a wastelander. What needs to be done further is the introduction of a quality control mechanism for the teaching process, the establishment of relevant curricula, given the national needs and requirements of the market. I especially stress this "national needs and requirements of the market", because here we have heard that our education is an international one. However, we are undermining it, and we will never get away from these needs. Then, normally, followed by their Majesty - students; involvement of students as partners in the educational process. What this means on a broader scale: a contribution to the democratic development of the country; a support for the transition process, especially the economic recovery of society; a promotion of the value of European integration. If we've defined ourselves to these steps, all of this is followed by certain favourable and unfavourable circumstances. There are favourable circumstances in our society: the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to approach the Bologna process, to support the national higher education system to participate in the mentioned process; the following is the acceptance of the Bologna process by the association of the University of Serbia. There has been a question of the position of higher schools; the law speaks of it in several members; I would only add that more schools should be installed here and properly modeled, because at this point they are not of great reputation in our society. What else is a favourable circumstance in this reform process? It is a number of NGOs, which have actively participated in higher education in the past 10 years; their experts, while also monitoring the reform processes in Europe, are ready to accept similar ventures in our country. Again about students: there is a clear awareness of the need to implement reforms, as well as their will to actively support and participate in reforms. The law very well regulates the position of students, and opens up the possibility of adopting other acts that will monitor the work of students and their participation in this process. Normally, all of this is followed by unfavourable circumstances, and some of the observed have to be pointed out here. The university system in Serbia is traditional and very tight. In addition, the government has a general view that only a lack of financial resources separates it from perfection. We need to get rid of this opinion and this attitude. The next thing you know is the fear of university employees that the government will interfere in the affairs of the university, as it has been in the past. Further, like any change, reform is accompanied by fear, and that fear is usually defined by the question - where is my place? Fear comes from establishing a different system of values and inability to predict the whereabouts of the one affected by this reform. There's something else we need to point out here: a long-term phenomenon of brain draining. A lot of young people have left this country and we can all name a lot of doctors' names, our successful students and students, who went out of the country, and their role in this moment would be very important. The results of the reforms are seen after a certain period and in order to implement the reforms correctly, we have to use all the resources we have. The pillars of higher education and pillars of reforms are institutions, state and private, equal, with their objectives aimed at providing transnational education. Furthermore, the issue of governance is raised; this law is well regulated, appropriate to the present moment; what is good in our country's legislation has been used by returning back to 1992, but something new has been built in, with which it can be ignored that the law is not very modern. But it's still our educational high school moment. Let me skip some details: students are the most important at this point; they will participate in the management of the university, within their legal powers. I repeat, the objection that he is late with this law does not stand, because he has been in the debate for quite a while and has been a part of the expert and scientific public. At the very end, I would like to leave time for Mr Igor Soldatovic, a student, and ask the presidency not to limit the student's exposure, that we have responded as parties to the amendment. The Democratic Party reacted to its amendments submitted on the basis of suggestions from the University of Art, Defectology College, Faculty of Philology, Faculty of Sports and Physical Education, University of Belgrade and academia groups, and the Ministry incorporated part of the amendment into the law. The end is something that is important for students, for parents, for all those who come to college: it is the Bologna Declaration. We strive for it and accept it, for basic studies to last three to four years, for the master's degree to last one year and for the exams to be one-semester. This will raise the success of the study to a higher level, so we will not have an average study for eight years, we will not have the success of studying 12% and, for all these reasons, MPs of the Democratic Party will normally vote for this law, and also because it is an example.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20183	The remaining DOS parliamentary group time is seven minutes, and there are three other registered speakers. The word is by MP Igor Soldatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20184	Dear colleagues, respected presidency, the story of the law on the university that we're making today is not only about the 2002 law, but also about the 1998 law. It has been three or four years since this law was applied, and in practice, it has left in our society an effect that we cannot call positive. Before I say a few words, since I will have to be brief, for a moment I will return to what we were told, when we adopted this law in 1998, Mr Ratko Markovic, then Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Jova Todorovic, then Minister of Education. Here's a piece of their exposure. "This law is expected to change one sick state, as it exists at individual universities and universities. For a long time, our university life has strayed from the right path to the side. From the original questions of teaching and scientific work, the focus has shifted to personal issues, the selection of rectors, deans, college teachers and associates. "These are the words of Ratko Markovic. Jovo Todorovic then said: "The structure of teaching -- scientific staff at universities in Serbia is also unfavourable. Poorly guided human policy has led us to have old universities in human terms. Regular professors account for 42% of the total teacher's staff, and the teacher's staff has more than 2,000 of the assistant staff. As a matter of fact, there was a reverse personnel pyramid and a negative selection of personnel. " Based on these statements and what has been going on in the last three years, today I am free to say that the 1998 law was political law. As much as there is persuasion or the position of the opposition MPs, which is publicly said to be this law that is being passed today, the one from 1998 was undoubtedly directed in that direction. Only in the year after that, 200 professors left different universities, including the Faculty of Law, and one of these professors was Mr. Vladimir Vednelic, I don't know if you remember him, who was my lecturer for two years, and in those two years he didn't present any political qualifications for any type. A man was engaged in human rights, civil rights, but because of his political stance, which was not at the university but outside the university, he was negatively qualified as someone involved in the policies he was conducting at the university. The only real change that was brought into the university in 1998 is the way teachers, teachers, deans and university rectors were appointed and elected. Under the law, it is predicted that the unlimited government manager, she is setting up rectors, deans, to then deans and rectors, in agreement with the ministry, elect professors. It is a huge influence of the government, or state, directly in the way the university develops. Today I have to tell you that I would be happier if the Republic Assembly were to make it a teaching-science larger or an organ of the university, because I think it's the best part of the population in Yugoslavia, the best part of our community. I really mean it, and it's an extraordinary high-aware population that sees far away, much further than some of you who are here today and defends the 1998 law. I don't think the 1998 University Act can be defended the way you defended it. The university cannot be treated in any way as any public enterprise and must be viewed in a completely different way. The 2002 law cannot be observed the way you try to observe it. We need to be aware of the state of the university before. I believe the 2002 law is a new beginning and invites you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20185	The word is given by MP Borislav Novakovic (the ambassador giving up the discussion). The word has a People's MP, Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20186	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Democratic Party and DOS will vote in favour of the proposal for a new law on the university, as this is our programme's confidence and one of the key pre-election promises made to Serbian citizens. This law is part of an educational reform and recovery of a really difficult situation at the university, but there is very little time left. The minister mentioned that during a previous period of one household policy, the debts of this higher education institution and higher schools were reduced by half, meaning from 177 to 89 million dinars; that the student standard, meaning the Ministry of Education and the Student Centre, received three weeks ago a prestigious prize of transparency for the fight against corruption, due to the abolition of corruption in higher education institutions that was huge; at this point only on the student standard in Belgrade saves 40,000 marks a day, which means that it was a sum that was poured into private pockets during the previous period. I will give you a few reasons why you should vote for this law - first, this proposed law is written in a broad public debate, in which students and professors participated for the first time; secondly, it returns autonomy to the university; in the election of deans; and in the curricula and programmes adopted this time by the university, not the government; and in the independent determination of the passing of certain professions on master's and doctoral studies; and in the emphasising the role of the teaching and scientific council; and thirdly, for the first time, the democratic participation of students in the university processes is specified, which has been the requirement of all student protests so far. However, the important thing is not just the adoption of a new law; the important thing is that the day came when the Assembly abolished the 1998 law, because the law is under the adverse consequences of our society in the dead race with the late information law. Because of those who are inclined here to think that Serbs have a short memory and those who have repeated in the discussion that "it's all the same and it's not the same" just to remind me that by abolishing the 1998 law, freedom is returning to university. Let's remind ourselves of some things that we all may have forgotten here, that we didn't seem to have forgotten what was going on while the University Law was in force - the release of unspeakable professors from the Faculty of Law and Electrical Engineering; the world size among them, Professor Cajo Marjanović, as he teaches at the Boulevard of Revolution, because someone's private security took him out of the cabinet; the beaten up girls in the hall of the Faculty of Philology in the late fall of 1998 by someone else's security; the shutting down of street lighting at the Boulevard of the Revolution, so that the students of architecture and construction would beat themselves up in the dark. Let's not forget the University Left Committee, when we're talking about politicizing at the university; I'm not talking about thousands of students arrested in 2000 for wearing symbols and showing the right symbol. So if we forgot these things, there's someone who hasn't forgotten them. It is my special honor, therefore, to invite you, as someone who is proud to take part and personally participate in the fight for the freedom of the university, to adopt this law and to say that we are adopting it in a different Serbia, which is on the right track. So it is my special pleasure to welcome our guests to the gallery, representatives of student organisations, and to say - welcome to the National Assembly, dear friends, never again cordons and police will be between students and MPs, never again the buildings of the National Assembly will be a place where you will be met by tear gas and pendrets, as it was that sad June 1998 when a law was passed that we are now replacing new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20187	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the injured Rules of Procedure, Article 101, the same member by which the SRS MPs are forbidden to say anything about this speaker. I now warn you, Mrs Micic, not to follow closely the statements of MPs of those policy options that suit you. The predecessor, with many charges at the expense of unidentified persons from the previous regime, and I wish he had named them, said that huge money, intended for colleges and universities, was poured into private pockets before the DOS came to power. So now I ask you, is this the basis for giving the warning to the predecessor, the Messenger of the people? First of all, he didn't tell us whose pocket it was pouring into, and secondly, if he had said whose pocket it was pouring into, you'd have to give him a heads-up because he's making facts and assessments about other people's private lives. Yours is a respected professor. Vojislav Seselj asked - whether there would be an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if he excuses for Minister of Education Gaš Knezevic, that he had received 20,000 euros to appear at BK University.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20189	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you, you are not entitled to a replica, I will give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20190	He asked you, "Professor." Vojislav Seselj, and you said - there will be an evaluation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20191	He asked me, but don't you get the measures I missed telling MP Vojislav Seselj about asking questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20192	I'm surprised you missed it, you'll make up for it in my case, maybe even now, it doesn't matter, but how you miss out on giving the predecessor a warning for the same act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20193	I didn't say it, but you'll get a warning. That's why I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. Mr. Nikolic, I'll explain. If you're not satisfied, I'll put you to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20194	You cannot frighten me with these warnings, nor can you shut your mouth to the messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20195	I don't scare you at all, I wish I didn't have to say them, right to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20196	You know, I'm not courting anyone for this pay phone or those who are at the gallery. I think it's time someone saw what the National Assembly looked like and now it's just pressuring some of the people at the gallery. You're here to greet them. You know them all personally, make out with them as soon as you meet them in the street and in the hallway, and they will, for God's sake, see what the SRS is doing here and how much democracy it is, that you could possibly bring someone else in. Read what you promised the citizens of Serbia -- you said that the government will in no way manage neither the university nor the university. So where did you get members of the founder's representative at the university's council from, on the council of colleges, members of the founders?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20197	Mr. Nikolic, I have nothing but to realize that you have misused the re-enactment of the Rules of Procedure, that you have used the right of replication, that you have repeated something we have already heard in the morning section, and in this way you have also spoken offensively about the Minister, and you have asked me to give a warning because someone has said about unidentified persons something ugly. So I'm not even obliged to answer, and I'm not going to put it to a vote, because you didn't say anything about hurting the Rules of Procedure at all, but you abused the pay phone. Well, it's your style, Mr. Nikolic, basic school phases. He has the word MP Srdja Popovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20198	The basis for the replica is the misreading of the speech of the previous speaker, in this case me. Just to explain to the esteemed MP things I didn't have enough time to say, because I tried not to overstep the time of the parliamentary group. When I was talking about the awards of transparency international, which the Ministry of Education and the Student Centre of Serbia received in the fight against corruption, I was talking about very concrete measures relating to the rehabilitation and desecration of the reselling of beds in student homes, where two million marks were previously made on about 3,000 beds. For the first time in history, a place in a dormitory has been given to every student who has connuced and met legal requirements. About the diet of students - it is true that it is not the subject of the Law on the University, it is the subject of the Law on Student Standard, such as private persons, who, on a daily basis, directed 40,000 marks from the student standard into private pockets, now subject to procedure by some other authorities, thank God in the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20199	A suggestion? National MP Aleksandar Vukic has a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a proposal, but before I tell the chairman to pay attention to the speaker before Popovic, who insulted not only the National Assembly, be patient...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20201	Suggestion, you've really come forward about the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20202	Be patient, you'll get a proposal. I didn't answer so I could abuse anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20203	There's nothing to be patient about. You've been given a word to discuss the proposal, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20204	I'll explain my proposal, and you can't guess what I meant to say unless you have some superhuman abilities. So you failed to warn one man who, apart from the university professors here, declared the entire Serb people unconscious, not just the National Assembly. I have to say in one sentence that we are equal to both peasants and workers, as well as university professors. And as far as I'm concerned... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20205	Is that a suggestion?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20206	And as far as the proposal is concerned, I suggest, Mrs. Micic, that you do the following thing: to show humanity in action in such a way that at least once, compared to 1:10, you will give a warning [[growls]] Don't make fun of the suicide note. I've heard that from DOS. [[growls]] The man's dead. Don't laugh at his grave. You should be ashamed of yourself and don't act silly now, as if you don't know what you're saying (he's talking to a group of MPs).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20207	Please return to your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20208	My suggestion is to give them a warning if they don't know what to say. Mr. Prince - I'll remind him, since he knows it better than those who don't know it, I've been a long time from law school, but back then Vladimir Vodnelic, mentioned, led a political coup against the Serb people, against all those who fought for the liberation of Vukovar and Sarajevo... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20209	Mr. Wolfie, please don't abuse the pay phone, you called to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20210	How others did not abuse the pay phone when they spoke about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20211	They had a right to replicas, I guess you're making a difference between the right to replicas and the proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20212	It wasn't a real replica. You weren't even listening to who I was talking about. He was not a previous speaker, who had no idea what he was talking about by the way, but he was the one before him, and I mentioned it at the beginning of his presentation. But you didn't listen to that at all. I only ask you to have the same arches, to judge both the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition in the same way. It's your responsibility. And if you continue in this way, just to warn us and not to give any measures to the MPs of the ruling majority, please just don't boast of your own humanity, but to say - that's the money I took to the radicals, so that's such humanity, not to say how human you are, and we'll take from the radicals and from anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20213	As I understand it, your proposal is to be objective and impartial and to impose penalties on all MPs. Is that right? (Alexander Vukic, from place: To be equal to everyone.) Yes, to be equal to everyone. I'm trying to do that. But if you're not happy with the answer, I can put it to a vote. What can I do when some parliamentary groups are more held by the Rules of Procedure and others by less? According to the Rules of Procedure? A suggestion? Do you have a suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20214	Proposal for a Rules of Procedure: to limit the debate in particular to three minutes for each amendment. Just to answer Mr. Wolf, I really had no intention of offending anyone in any way. I said what I witnessed - Mr. Vodnelic really did not speak about politics at lectures. [[growls]] I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement about my proposal. (Serb Radical Party MPs object. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20215	You're the one who caused the replica. You were already talking about it, like you were using straight replicas, and you were abusing a pay phone. Alexander Vukic insists he gets the word. ) This proposal will be put to the vote when I open a search in particular, that is when we decide on the proposal. Alexander Vukic insists he gets the word. Here you go, straight to the replica, same to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament When I spoke about the law in principle, I briefly said what was going on at the Law School in Belgrade. [[growls]] Now I have a chance to explain it longer. Namely, these were difficult years; the years in which students were divided into those who were national orientations and those who were, which at the time supported most professors mostly from the Civil League, as we consider from the Serbian Radical Party, an anti-national or anti-Serbian orientation. There were conflicts in both lectures and exercises during that period. He almost did not choose how he would act politically against others, and the representatives of the Civil Union of Serbia or some similar parties were preceded, as they began to split early and acted as some kind of sect at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. So you could on the advertising boards, everywhere, see the calls to finally, words are understood, not by weapons, to deal with the falses about the alleged freeing struggle of the Serbian people west of Drina and Danube, so the stands were made about how Serbs - criminals killed everyone else in Sarajevo, and in all of this was the teacher you mentioned. He never did anything to me. I was at his wife's house, and she was extremely correct. I won ten if you're interested. But these are facts. That's what Gašo Knezevic was involved in. Many other professors of the Faculty of Law participated in Belgrade. Those who oppose it would usually draw a thicker end. I'm going to give an example: it was supposed to be constitutional law, there were some demonstrations on the terraces, and then they asked everyone to go to the Terrace, and the teachers took them... Will you shut up? [[growls]] Don't. Your decency speaks best of you and not of me, who I'm talking about and I'm trying to tell you, but it's obvious that you're only interested in what you hear, what Zoran Djindjic tells you when he meets with students and students, because he won't even call anyone else for these conversations anymore, because he's not trusted by workers or peasants or people who are over 20 years old. Well, then they're underneath them, but they've seen through him and the kids, so he won't even invite the kids to his rallys and his meetings anymore. [[growls]] So, (President-time) what I said from this pay phone is the living truth. That it is true, today, shows persecution for all those who think differently from Mr. Knezevic. [[growls]] What he said -- mild lustration, it's not only unfair behavior, it's anti-legal behavior. The adoption of such laws or measures under some other laws is inappropriate to modern legal denials. But what do I do when many of you don't want to hear it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20217	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups... Do you have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic, a proposal from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has somehow become very common that here, from these lines, we are getting a permanent motion to derail the amendments for three minutes, and I am telling you that this Parliament is destroying them. Let's not do this, let's do this with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20219	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have not exercised their right, according to Article 89. The Rules of Procedure, they want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Gašo Knezevic, the Minister of Education and Sports, spoke of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20220	Madam Chairman, the presidency, the honourable MPs, this almost two-day dialogue on the law in principle, I would really just end up with a few remarks. A maximum wide circle of people has been consulted in the adoption of this law. So wide that we can say that this law was actually written by universities and universities. At the same time, talks with almost all parliamentary groups were held in the law-making process, and it was agreed that we would stick to some regulations, we accepted at that pre-sectoral stage of some suggestion, and thus the ministry wanted to show that there was no politicisation when it came to the University Law. The SPS MPs often mentioned Danil Ž. Markovic and the 1992 time. Not because of Danil Ž. Markovic, whom I think he was a gromad of our educational history, not by his own weight, but by the time of 1992, and since Danilo Ž. Markovic is not here, I do not want to talk about my colleague, so I will stay in 1992. Since he came to the power of the SPS of this country, a desert, or isolated island has been made. I don't care if it's the international community or the government's policy, but the fact is that this country was an isolated island. In such a situation, this country had to eat its substance to survive. Just because the gross national income, the JDP of this country, was eaten by two-thirds, this country entered the Ginnis Book of Records. And that's enough reason to change one power, which is done. So I'm asking you, do you really think that we have the right to share time with another normal world? You really think that by our gross national income, by the state of the institutions in this country, in 2002; and I think that in 1992 the year we go forward is actually a step towards the future towards the situation, according to the moment we are now living, thanks to the fact that the government that has been in this country for ten years. I have to be completely honest with you. We ate our own substance. There's something said here, and as far as one sentence I used in the opening statement, which is a partial or weak retroactiveness, it doesn't matter, but I'm going to try now to point out to all those who are angry opponents of article 141 why this isn't actually retroactive in a formal and legal sense. In a material and legal sense, there are elements of retroactivity. The promoter did not intend to revise all elections, but only gave certain bodies the right to initiative, these bodies are deans and departments of the university. In doing so, no October 5th was mentioned in the law, but all those elections, which were completed under the 1998 Law procedure, were opened for revision. So, the procedure is revised that has been evaluated by the scientific and teaching greater than their function. Never in the history of Belgrade University, Serbian universities, the scientific and teaching council was deprived of the right to decide on the election, except at the time of Nedic. It's the only period when the scientific and teaching council didn't decide. That's why we've come to an absurd situation for a dean, by the 1998 Law, to choose himself from an extraordinary professor to call a regular professor. Please don't make me speak names, but it's the exact fact that the dean of a university in Serbia has chosen himself from calling an extraordinary professor. Why? It dictated and provided him with the 1998 Law procedure. This is why we want to open up the possibility of reviewing decisions made under the 1998 Law. Secondly, the possibility of reviewing the decision does not exist for the first time and there is not a complete newspaper entered by Article 141. It's a bill of law. All illegal and irregular decisions can also be revised widely. There have been cases where one member of this Parliament has asked the question of revising the decision of another member of this Parliament, and this is known and it is possible to do so regardless of Article 141. So it's an administrative procedure under the legal procedure and there's no newspaper in this law. Finally, what I've already said, the decision only works for the future, not the past. And finally, most importantly, this is the fourth argument, the conditions under which decisions will be revised, if the law is passed, are not any new conditions, these are the conditions that existed at the moment of the decision-making. My lords, every lawyer now knows what I'm talking about. It is revised according to the conditions that existed at the moment when the person applied, no new or additional conditions are set for man and therefore there is no formal retroactivity. Of course, I think there are many shifts made by this law and it is my duty to remind you that the Republic Council has been revitalised, that a student parliament has been established, that there are three meters, a credit system, the possibility of three years of study, and these are all elements, the little cubes that lead us to the Bologna process. If the united European space is our perspective, and I think it is, then these are steps in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20221	Replica? You don't, you're not mentioned at all. No, please (Bora Stanimirović stands behind the pay phone), you have been withdrawn from power. For this part of the agenda, MP Zoran Angelkovic has been authorised, and you do not have the right to reply. You are not authorised on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. I'm finishing the initial search. I'm putting the draft law on the university in principle. (Speakers approaching Zoran Angelkovic. No, I put it to a vote, you don't have the right to speak. You didn't pick up the phone in no time. I put it to a vote, you didn't. Please step aside, I cannot discuss with you. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the university in principle. For 129 against 45, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the University Act in principle by majority vote. I am opening a review of the individualities and decisions on the amendments I am putting to the vote of MP Igor Soldatovic to discuss the amendments for three minutes. 93, against 95, no abstentions, did not vote 11 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal to hold the debate for three minutes, so the Rules of Procedure will take five minutes. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union to Article 2 of the current University Law does not change the essence of that member, but primarily aims to highlight first-class educational and then scientific activities of the university. Thus, the amended position of the first member, in our opinion, should read: "The university is an autonomous educational, or artistic and scientific institution". Namely, the fact is that the basic and exaggerating performance of the university is educational work. The largest number of students or students through the university, i.e. through studies, are educated for certain occupations, and relatively few students are further advanced in science. So this shift puts us in order, first of all, to prove that this educational activity is primary. In addition, this amendment brings this member into line with Article 6 and Article 15. It's a bill of law. Because, for example, in Article 6, the university is said to be an educational and scientific institution, not a scientific institution. Therefore, if this amendment is not accepted, Article 6 must be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20223	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment on Article 2 for a vote. For 34, there are no 102 abstentions, 49 did not vote, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Arsen Kurjački submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment on Article 2 for a vote. For 26, against 85, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Chairman, Mr. Minister, Article 3 of the Law has been defined that the university consists of at least three universities in the first place, and in the second, the law on the establishment of a university establish universities within the university and their mutual relations; the position of 3 - in the membership of the university can also be institutes of a library and other organisations whose activity is in accordance with the university's activity; the position 4, that the university organisation and the relationship between the university and other organizations in its composition are governed by the statute of universities. I suggested adding the words "and to the statutes" in the second position after the word "instruction of the university" was added. I explained. Therefore, it is not disputed that the act establishing an act laying down the composition of the university and which colleges are in its composition. It is not disputed that in its composition there may be institutes and other organisations whose competences and organisations are defined by the Statute. My proposal for an amendment goes after it - what happens to universities that are later formed and meet the requirement to be within the university, and the founding act does not provide that. That's why I suggested it could be defined by the statute. It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, what the government said. I'd like to quote that the minister hears that, which is why my amendment is not accepted. It says: "Amendment should not be accepted because the university makes colleges, so it is necessary to establish the university's founding act as a university, and the statute regulates issues related to university activity, so in that sense the provision of Article 3(4). The bill requires that the statutes be governed by the organisation of universities and other organisations in the form of universities." So, in response to the Government's reply to my amendment, you signed what it says in Article 3. So I didn't ask you that, and I didn't propose the amendment in that sense, but when a college is later formed that meets all the conditions, which is not foreseen by the founding act, it can be regulated by the statute. I ask that if there is, with apologies, the minister gives a better explanation than my amendment, than the one given by the Government. Otherwise, I suggest that my amendment be accepted, because it will be a contribution to define this area more precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20225	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 93, a abstentioned one, was not voted 37, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 93, the abstentions were not voted 53, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric together submitted the 4th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the bearer want a word? The word is by MP Milan Radulovic, on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20226	Article 4 on which we have submitted the amendment has four positions. In the first, freedom of scientific and artistic creation is guaranteed, in the third university autonomy is guaranteed in the performance of its work, the fourth argues that the space of the university and its members are non-injurious, in accordance with this law. So all three attitudes guarantee the basic freedoms that belong to the university. However, in paragraph 2, a provision that introduces very sharp restrictions entered into that article. Namely, here now, in attitude 2, freedoms are limited. The particular question is whether it is possible to limit the freedom of political action at the university, is that necessary? What kind of law can ban students from self-organizing automatically, having their own political ideas and being what they've always been: creative opposition to every regime. However, since we, with the political organisation of universities in the past, have had some disturbances, this ban on political and party action at universities can be seen as an emergency, i.e. as a reaction to the bad experience we have had in some periods. Otherwise, in one normal law on the university, which primarily describes guaranteed freedoms, this attitude is unlikely to survive. If a measure can be tolerated and understood by a ban on political action at the university, it is totally incomprehensible how the proponent linked faith and politics. It is not clear how religious action and religious organization at the university can disrupt his autonomy. Whether the proposer thinks - I suppose he doesn't think, but that's not what it is in this attitude - that religion is a form of ideological indoctrination. I believe that most people in this country realize that religion is primarily an autothon form of culture, that religious activity, religious organization and religious research are actually manifesting certain cultural ambitions and that religion has nothing to do with ideological indoctrination. That's why we tried to come to some compromise, that we have an understanding that with politics at the university of bilingual situations -- although I repeat: it cannot be forbidden for students to be politically organised, to have their own political will and to express their political will automatically, beyond the parties. That's why we suggested that religious organization and action should not be linked to politics, especially in this context, and that it should not be banned at universities. Religious activity is a form of intellectual freedom. Faith is a way of intellectual research. She, not only is she not incompatible with the freedom of the university, but she seems to be an indisputable freedom of the university. Quite clumsyly brought into the relationship of two spiritual and public actions that are completely distant from one another and not similar. So I don't think we'd be wrong if we accepted this amendment; because, of course, in the next law, this position 2 is probably not going to stay, it's going to have to be left out as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20227	The government minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20228	Let me look back on a few last sentences of Mr. Radulovic. Yes, religious activity is part of intellectual freedom, but political action is also part of intellectual freedom. So on that ground, I don't think we'll find a difference. What was important to us, and what we also presented on the Education Committee, is that this provision of Article 4 does not in any way oppose any markings of religious holidays, which are already present in schools and universities. At my university, St. Sava is marked. It will still be able to be marked without any problems. So this provision will not stand up to it. The second question is making a fine distinction or a rough distinction between what's called a sect and what's called faith. The Law on Religious Organization is quite problematic in this regard, or it is difficult to make that big difference. That's why we've all been afraid to open that door, because there might be an uninvited door. Finally, this provision, I'd like to convince everyone here, has nothing to do with the status of the Faculty of Education, absolutely nothing. It's a completely separate question from this. I think that's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20229	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20230	The SRS parliamentary group is against this amendment. I'll try to explain it differently from the proposing representatives. Namely, if you would accept this amendment, then you would be in trouble to explain Article 2. The bill, which clearly states that the university is an autonomous scientific, or artistic and educational institution. It fits with the SRS's views. We want our children to enter an educational facility. She's scientific for college associates, but our kids are going there to learn, to close doors, to be left to teachers, to listen to lectures, and then to show on the exam whether or not they mastered the knowledge. The moment they enter the university building, they're college students; the moment they leave the building, they're citizens who have all the rights and obligations that other citizens have. At the same time, the question arises whether the promoter was sincere when he said political action at the university would not be allowed. I think now we even have entire political organizations at the university, which even the names of students, or whatever, are used to prove their political activity. I'm really interested in how when this university law comes into force, whether it goes to ban, or those political organisations that you've overly promoted and supported, you're going to advise those jobs to stop dealing with. In an explanation of the amendments, the applicant for the amendment said he submitted it only to allow theology college to be included in the University of Belgrade. I am increasingly concerned with the question why don't you include the Police Academy in the membership of the university, why don't you include various military academys in the membership of the university. It's not working. Besides, Article 41. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I think attitude 2 or 3 clearly states - religious communities can establish religious schools and the state will help them. That's quite clear. Theology college is a religious school. It should help that he always has the best working conditions, that he has the best lecturers. I think the bourgeois revolution separated faith from the state and we're not so strong that now, divided like this, we're canceling all these centuries-old liquids of a revolution and now we're back in the middle of something that would lead us to who knows where. So political organization, religious organization -- all out of the classroom and out of the college building; it's on the loose for a man, if there's time besides the college's obligation to do that and it doesn't need to be stalled. Students should be part of political parties and MPs, and nothing more beautiful than that, but that only the fact that students are entitled to certain rights that other citizens do not have, we will never be able to allow it. You can see that at least the proponent and the Serbian Radical Party agree on something, although the promoter has strayed from what he has been doing for years. You know, when children go out on the streets to demonstrate, they're not students, they're citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You tattooed them, it suits you, you encouraged student demonstrations, and students rebel against the political system in the country. The students complain that our relations with our neighbours are regulated, why our country wants to defend itself or whatnot. They're citizens. Did the locksmiths come out? Did doctors, teachers, teachers, students come out? It doesn't take us to assess whether they're right or wrong. I'd ask you to eat what you've been feeding me right now, it'll be much better for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20231	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20232	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is one of the few occasions when, according to one amendment, the Democratic Party of Serbia faces the opposite of the rest of the DOS and the opposition in this parliament, when we propose that the Faculty of Education be given the right to be part of Belgrade University, as it was tens of years ago. We believe that this amendment, which concerns allowing religious organisation at Belgrade University and all other universities in Serbia, is not something that offends human rights, dignity and simply opens up the possibility of better organisation and that these rights, contrary to what is claimed, are even better achieved. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes it is necessary to support this amendment, it is necessary to open the door for the University of Belgrade to return to the University of Belgrade. It is something that is consistent with what is the tradition of Belgrade University and what is a tradition of even Serbian higher education. Let's not close the door, I don't know how we're going to make it, then we're going to vote or we're not going to pass this law, if this member is not allowed to perform religiously in college. I don't see that there's any fear of religious action, and if a law is passed on religious organizations, which will determine what religious organizations are, which are the creeds that can be organised in the state, which are not, I don't see that it should be the subject of this law. This law should leave the door open for such organization and operation. Let's not banish the Serbian Orthodox Church, and not only the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also some other religious organisations, from Belgrade University, because that never did well. If we want to build a new democratic society based on traditional values that inaugurate faith and which were the basis of all civilizations, including these Christian societies, we cannot go beyond that and go to a Christian Europe with non-civilizational measures, or left-wing things, which are completely contrary to what Christian and democratic Europe is now and which is the foundation of such a Europe, and especially its education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20233	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my opinion, this is the key to the law. This is the key to all of our stories and conflicting about what it's supposed to be like to be the autonomy of a university or college. The bill's proposer defined and regulated the autonomy of the university in one sentence; he wrote in Section 4: "The space of the university and its members is irreparable under this law." I would understand that if anywhere in 147 members, as long as this law already has, this provision was further elaborated, but it is no longer mentioned. You're saying the university's uninjured is in accordance with this law. What does that mean? Where the members who say, like this, like this, and like this, are no longer subject to the provisions of that and that law. You cannot now repeal the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure by writing here that the faculty's room is injureable under this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 21, speaks of the inviolability of the apartment and other premises (you can subdue the university here), but he says - if the law enforcement authorities are chasing the perpetrator of the crime, they enter the premises. If they want to enter an apartment that's uninjured, they lead two witnesses and enter the apartment. Where is it regulated that they can't get into college or university rooms? We heard from an MP earlier that the former government was so brutal that a student was beaten in an ave of a university in Serbia, whether in Belgrade, I did not follow exactly what MP Srda Popovic said. He said mostly that, thanks to the former University Law, a student was beaten up in college rooms. Will that be possible under the new university law? It will. You didn't write anywhere that the police couldn't get into college or university without the permission of a dean or a rector. Of course, the positive regulations don't give you that right, because it's regulated entirely by other laws. But it shouldn't have been promised, it wasn't necessary to attack the former government when the police went to college; it's going to come in under this law, it's not going to account for it. I understand the promise, I understand the political struggles, but I need to make a promise and I'm sure the police can't get into college. You're banging nonsense - I'm introducing the police. At least I'm not crazy or stupid, unlike you, and I'd like to take the test, so you prove me crazy and I'm stupid, but in the last 12 years, no one's told me in my eyes that I'm crazy, that I'm stupid and I don't know anything. I'm trying to talk to you like people, and you don't want to, you want to incriminate me not to talk to this pay phone. The President of the Assembly can do that with one warning. I just want to tell you why I wrote the amendment, as you're telling me why you wrote the bill, because we're completely equal in this. I want the bill to be fixed so that the university is autonomous, unhurtful, that it has its own police force, its own security, and that when a student enters the university or university, he is completely safe, that no one is persecuting him, that they are not being chased, that they are not being held by the hands of various organizations, that good students who learn are not sneaking past the walls when they move to the university, because they are in the middle of those who have been studying and are involved in politics for years. I'd like to see it in college. You're saying yourself that there are some big scales even of those who end up gone, but a lot of kids are wasting their time in college, maybe because of laws like this. I'm not talking about professors like this, but I'd love for teachers to deal with what's written in their description. Think about it one more time, it's not only worth the stories, it's not worth writing in a member of the law that college is harmless, and it's not being implemented afterwards. You'll be asked by one of the journalists - and what will it look like when the police chase a student and he runs into a university building? Will the police stop and say, "The college is invulnerable"? I don't think he's gonna stop, especially if you're running politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20235	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20236	I would ask, the president isn't here, to apologize for misreading the Rules of Procedure a little while ago. We made that clear, but I lost 10 minutes to answer the minister. It's over, and now I just want to say exactly what Mr. Nikolic is saying, that this amendment is completely in place, that they are right, just starting from the discussions we just heard, when it comes to universities, universities, etc. I am more concerned by what the minister just said, angry enough, attacked respected Professor Danil Z. Markovic because he passed the law in 1992, which we are adopting today. So, please, this law was written, so, for the J.J.I. century? Professor Danil J. Markovic should be commended. And don't, please, act like this, just as Professor Danilo Z. Markovic is not present here. Secondly, don't get it wrong, a young colleague just had a nice discussion, but he's wrong when he says the opposition, and thus the SPS, has repeatedly defended the 1998 law. We're on the board, and Mr. Secretary knows that, too, we've been very correct. The SPS, or MPs, members of the parliamentary club, very correctly proposed amendments that they only wanted to contribute to correcting this text of the law, to make it a better law, not for some criticism. That's why I'm surprised that we're constantly defending the 1998 Law. We recognize what was wrong with that law, but we say at the same time what was good. Therefore, do not see everything black, and what Mr Nikolic has just suggested is just talking about what the young have pointed out and so I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20237	I am obliged, on behalf of the chairman, to give an explanation. At 17.45 p.m., therefore just a moment ago, the vice-president of the National Assembly brought authority, signed by Vice-President Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who re-authorises MP Bora Stanimirovic for this part of the agenda. Earlier in the day, the same signator, deputy president Mr Zarko Obradovic, brought authority for MP Zoran Angelkovic to represent the SPS parliamentary group. The first paper authorised by you was signed by the president of the parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic. There was no notice to the National Assembly about the amendment of the signatories, or the authority, or about you, until a moment ago. So when you ask for an apology, you first look for information within your parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 97, the abstentions were not voted 44, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 26, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 48, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Rosic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Mirko Rosic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20238	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, this amendment envisions essentially the possibility of forming a community of related colleges. In this way, the existing situation would be virtually verified, given that there are already communities of several universities, including the community of medical, legal and economic universities. In essence, it would institutionalise a very important form of organisation in our higher education system and a whole series of issues, such as, say, the alignment of curricula and programmes, the alignment of the common registration policy, would be resolved in a place that is only competent, which are communities of these universities. Other organisational forms, such as future advice on university education or associations of the University of Serbia, are strategic organisational forms and do not necessarily have to, and cannot, enough to look at all specificities of individual universities. For these reasons, I think the government would get a competent talker in the future to solve all the problems. The speaker would, of course, be very competent and in a direct conversation with the future Republic High Education Council, including with the university association. For all these reasons, I ask Mr. Minister to accept this amendment, and fellow Members of Parliament to vote for that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20239	There is a word from Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20240	Since I personally know that there are college communities and I know their work -- they're harmonising the level of tuition, the number of students, possibly plans and programmes -- on behalf of the promoter, I accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20241	I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment, but since the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee has not, I ask the Assembly to declare the amendment. Here you go. For 83, against 36, a abstentioned one, did not vote 59, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20242	On behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the current bill does not change its essence either, but aims to reform it a little better, to make it clearer. For, in the bill of law, Article 7, paragraph 1, reads: "Immobilities and other means provided by the Republic as the founder of the establishment and operation of universities and universities in state property". It's a very vaguely formulated attitude. The sentence is too ghastly, so we suggest that article 1 of Article 7 reads: "Immobilities and other means necessary for the work of the university and university, which provides the Republic as founder, are state property." I think it's a much clearer formulation. Furthermore, Article 2 of the same article reads: "The immovableities of Article 1 cannot be alienated without the consent of the Founder". We propose that the words "immobilities" and "other means" be added behind the words", so that this amended position of the 2nd member reads: "Immobilities and other assets of Article 1 cannot be alienated without the consent of the founder". And finally, the position of the 5th member reads: "Immobilities and other assets that the university, i.e. the university, acquires by doing its work, as well as on the basis of the legacy and gifts, are property of the university, or the university that acquired that property." We agree on this. By adding in the end the words "cannot be alienated". We believe that such a change provides adequate protection of property in universities and colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-15-0.u20243	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 101, two abstentions, he did not vote 21, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since there are only five minutes left by the end of today’s work hours, we do not have enough time for all the authorised participants in the debate, so we are finishing work for today. We will continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours with discussion in detail on the amendment to Article 13 submitted jointly by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradović, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. Thank you.
