ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18807	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 156 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Vasilije Pavicevic, Stevan Lilic, Dragan Jočić, Milos Lučić, Sima Radulović, Goran Ćirić, Slobodan Adžic, MilutinProdanović, Branko Ružić, Zoran Bošković, Branimir Trajković, Momcilo Trajković, Išpanovic Istvan, Kasa Jožef, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Biači Anton, Vladan Radovanovic, and in the morning Vladan Jovičić, Petar Misic and Natasa Milojevic. The MP and president of the Natasa Micic Assembly will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" and representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE CRIME LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (principle debate) You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović; a group of MPs Rodoljub Šabić, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijević, Aleksandar Vatović and Meho Omerović; Milos Lukić, Petar Petrović, Djordje Mamula; together Dusan Budišin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetković; Jovan Deretić and Zoran Novaković; Petar Jojić, Verodar Arsic, Aleksandar Vučić, Dragan Čolić, Goran Cvetanovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Dragoljub Stamić, Branislav Blažić, Vitomir Plužarić, Milorad Mirčić, Lazar Marjanski, Tomislav Nikolic, Stovar Kjeljić, Mirić, Mirić, Mira Žaljan Žaljanović, Mirjanović, Mirjanović, Mirživić and Božić. National MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Nikolic have drawn the amendment in writing to Article 29. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups to submit a list of the names of MPs who will take part in the debate on the agenda item - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I ask all MPs' groups to submit their applications for the word, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and to make a regular list of the order of MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group, with order for and against intruding in the National Assembly. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Please, the word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18808	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the observers, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. The law represents a partial reform of criminal legislation and, in this respect, the first question that can be asked is - why not join a comprehensive reform of criminal legislation. The obstacle to this is, above all, federal criminal law, which in the general part of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is governed by the basic institute of material criminal law. Many of these institutions, which are still detained in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Criminal Law, have been uncritically taken over from the earlier SFRJ criminal legislation. Illustrations are done, a social danger as an element of the general concept of criminal activity; or it is about institutions that need to be thoroughly examined and brought into line with modern theoretical solutions and the practical needs of criminal and legal protection. An example of this is the very definition of a criminal offence, which gives a formal material concept of the work or too broadly established criminal frameworks in the general part of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Therefore, without a fundamental reform of the Institute's material criminal law, it is not possible to reform special criminal legislation on a federal or at a republican level either. The second obstacle to a comprehensive revision lies in the fact that Serbia has not yet completed the process of the creation of new social economic relations, which will, logically, bring major social changes and a new system of values. Only when the new state relations are definitely formed and consolidated can a full reform of criminal law or criminal law be approached, slightly conservative, slightly static, which will protect the established system of values and relationships. When that is the case, the question arises - why has the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia joined. For a simple reason, because the changes solve the problems that have been ultimately updated and which simply could not wait for fundamental reforms and changes in material and criminal legislation in the long term. The current state of our criminal legislation is characterised by insufficient criminal policy for certain crimes, the overcoming of certain incriminations, the existence of capital punishment for certain crimes, inadequate criminal protection of certain social values, insufficient protection of minors and the depravity of nominal amounts. For these reasons, this law proposes tightening the penalties for certain criminal offences, since the severity of the sanctions for these offences did not affect so-called. General prevention; then the introduction of new incriminations or new crimes; the abolition of the death penalty; then the decriminalisation of certain crimes, which solves the problem of hypertrophy of criminal and legal protection; the expansion of the possibility of milder punishment of accomplices in the execution of a particular type of criminal offence, which requires specific criminal-political reasons; the strengthening of the protection of minors by predicting more severe penalties for criminal offences committed against them. Also, an increase in the number of nominal amounts in those criminal acts where the legal mark is a certain level and a certain amount of property value is proposed. As for the tightening of penalties for certain crimes, an increasing number of serious forms of crime have been detected, and especially increasing violence and organised crime, requiring that criminal policy be changed and tightened, as a means of preventing further serious crimes. Such intensity is justified by both dynamics and structure, and the extent of crime, which has been manifested in our society in recent years. A strict criminal policy is seen in increasing the special minimum and a special maximum prison sentence in a group of crimes against the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, against electoral rights and freedom of expression, against dignity of personality and morals, against human health and the human environment and against official duty. The very mild penalties, which the courts impose, are partly stemming from the excessive criminal framework established by the Criminal Law of the SRJ. As a result, it has been approached by raising the legal minimum, which must automatically reflect the sanctions imposed. The tightening of penalties was necessary at the time of the so-called "Serb" formations in Serbia. structural crime. So the crime that has crossed the threshold is more tolerated and endangers the very foundations of society in certain areas. In such a situation, overly mild penalties often give rise to the impression that crime is paid as well as any other business, stricter penalties are therefore the logical reaction of the state to such a situation and the delaying of the decision to do so cannot be justified by reasons of theoretical or any other nature. The objection that the tightening of penalties violates the criminal sanctions system in the Criminal Law could not be accepted, so it joined the correction of the criminal frameworks, and above all by increasing the special maximum. The second motive for prescribing stricter penalties is criminal-political. In particular, the common practice of performing certain criminal acts imposed an increase in the specific minimum and maximum penalty in order to achieve the generally preventive and special preventive purpose of punishment. A good example of this is crimes against electoral rights and freedom of expression, which so far, in the light of the prescribed punishment, have been treated and considered easier crimes. On the other hand, the violation of the electoral will of citizens by the electoral authorities has become the speciality of political life in Serbia in one period and has led to extremely difficult consequences. It could have led to even more tragic consequences, so it was necessary to punish this kind of crime more sharply. I would like to remind myself of the crimes for which it is intended to increase the punishment - damage to the equality of citizens, kidnapping, violation of the integrity of the apartment, unlawful search, unauthorized listening and tone recording, unauthorized photography, violation of the secrecy of letters and other shipments, prevention of printing and breaking up of printed items and broadcasting of radio and TV programs, prevention and obstruction of public assembly, violations of candidateship in elections, violation of voting rights, violation of freedom to vote, abuse of voting rights, abuse of voting rights, violation of voting secrets, counterfeiting the results of elections and voting, destruction of documents on elections and voting; then for criminal acts of rape, coercion and promises, or against natural fornication; promise and against natural fornication over the impertinence of the accused person; and the abuse of the abuse of the criminal act of fornication; So these are crimes for which much more severe punishment has been proposed, because practice has actuated the need to do so. The introduction of new incriminations is a second feature of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, and should allow greater personal and property security of citizens, to protect constitutional regulation and security of the Republic of Serbia, to contribute to the consolidation of the legal order and legal functioning of state authorities and public services. The establishment of new crimes also justify the new numerous and increasingly common forms of socio-hazard behaviour, which can or cannot be undertaken under existing incrimination. The change in the value model protected by criminal law, as well as changes in the structure and forms of crime, demanded that new crimes be prescribed. Expansion of the crime zone has been done primarily in relation to individual values, by establishing precise guarantees of protection. A good example of that is so-called. a new ossion crime, not taking measures to prevent sexual abuse of persons deprived of freedom. This new ambition is that criminal law is not only an instrument of state policy to protect citizens from crime, but also an instrument of self-restraint against citizens. It is through the incrimination of these and similar crimes and through the tightening of penalties for criminal acts committed by authorized persons that demonstrates a clear intention to protect citizens from arbitrary and arbitrarily acting by state authorities. The proposed text of the law contains a new head - criminal acts of corruption. This kind of title looks like it, or if you want to ethemologically, goes back to the title of the other chapters of the Criminal Law, which marks a protective facility for crimes from the very head. However, criminal-political initiatives to incriminate these acts have also defined the title of this chapter. New crimes in this chapter complement the protection of the service against corruption and protection and sanction new atypical types of corruption. These reasons for the special protection of the official duty against corruption were at the same time motives for these, essentially, crimes against the law and proper conduct of the service, the name of the chapter and specifically apostrophe and specifically apostrophe. The process of internationalising human rights protection has affected individual solutions in the proposed law. For example, the formulation of a criminal offence in the service referred to in Article 66. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia was incomplete from the point of view of Article 1. Conventions against torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating penalties and procedures since 10 November 1984. Amendments and additions of the Criminal Code to the new formulation of the criminal offence referred to in Article 66. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia has been banned from applying severe physical or mental suffering or intimidation, which has led to compliance with the said member of the Convention. In this case, as with some other crimes, the amendments to the Republic's criminal law are in line with international standards and international documents governing the protection of human freedoms and rights. I note the introduction of new crimes by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code: a crime of violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community; a violation of freedom of movement and housing; a criminal offence of the transfer of particularly serious disease; a criminal act of unnecessary treatment; a criminal act of supra-potheism; a criminal act of non-stopping riots in a sporting contest or other public gathering; a criminal act of return; a non-requisite to prevent sexual abuse of persons deprived of liberty. In addition to certain criminal acts, Articles 61. The criminal code is also being introduced a new head -- crimes against the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, with two new crimes that have again imposed the needs of practice. One is the crime of high treason, and the other is the crime of unauthorized creation and use of armed formations, paramilitary, parapolitic, etc. I have already mentioned that a special chapter of the crimes against corruption has been introduced, which includes the crime against corruption in the authorities of the administration, the non-purpose availability of funds from the budget, corruption in public procurement, corruption in the privatisation process, corruption in the judiciary, corruption in health, corruption in education, the crime of abuse of the function of defenders or proxies, the criminal act of restricting freedom of public information and the criminal act of negotiating the outcome of the competition. So these are all new crimes. Also, I would mention that eradicating certain crimes, which has again been imposed by practice, are changes in the economic and political system or because special laws are designed as a particular criminal offence by one of these crimes, have been removed from the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. These are criminal misdemeanors of price regulations, customer privileges, non-compliance with orders for distance, unauthorized possession and use of radio stations, non-participation in the elimination of general dangers, gambling, abuse of religion and churches for political purposes. Also, a milder punishment for a number of crimes, above all for accomplices in the execution of certain crimes, which can be justified by specific criminal-political objectives, to more effectively detect crimes and perpetrators, to speed up the prevention of planned crimes and to create conditions for more effective criminal prosecution for serious crimes. Milder punishment of participants is proposed in Articles 3 and 79. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. It has also been approached in a number of criminal offences, whose legal mark contains property value, an increase in nominal amount, as the existing nominal amount has been devalued, as well as the harmonisation of increased nominal amounts with increased nominal amounts under the amended Criminal Law of the SRJ. Moreover, this criminal law definitely abolishes the death penalty for a certain number of crimes, which is already very well known to the public and what is a major controversy, since it is something that represents the characteristic of contemporary or new European legislation, which is the position of the Council of Europe, the European Union, the OSCE. So there is no death penalty in Europe. I remind you that the federal Criminal Code has also introduced the erasure of the death penalty, and as equivalent for the death penalty, a prison sentence of 40 years has been imposed. It was precisely the adoption of these amendments to federal Criminal Code that led to the timely withdrawal of this proposal on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. When the federal Penal Code, which abolished the death penalty, came into effect, we returned to the procedure of the Bill of Criminal Law before you. Therefore, this criminal law is in line with the current problems of crime in this country and is well-solving these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18809	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18810	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, this law does not end the death penalty, because it does not introduce itself, but is introduced by federal law and that is the law that has wiped out the death penalty. This is just, let me say, the implementation of what is regulated by federal law, so this is the result of the abolition of the death penalty at the federal level, so we cannot attach the importance of abolishing the death penalty to this law and that we are particularly boasting about it, because it has already been done at the federal level. It's just a result of the suspension of that sentence at the federal level. When the question arises whether there is a need for amending and supplementing the Criminal Law, of course there is. It's undeniable. Our criminal law on federal and republican level doesn't have enough crimes and doesn't match the current state of affairs in society. Surely, the introduction of some new crimes and erasure of some of the old ones, which proved to be inapplicable for many years. In particular, the introduction of new criminal offences should be regulated because of the social danger, that is, those crimes which are socially dangerous and which have the highest degree of threat to the most protected and top-notch facility that is protected by all legislation - life, bodies and the health of citizens. This is a law that we believe is not innovative enough in some segments, that new crimes are not introduced, and those that are introduced do not correspond adequately to the state of things in society. What is also to be pointed out is a trap that we can fall into and start dealing with the law, believing that this is one of the main reasons why the fight against crime and corruption stands in society. Of course not. Our law isn't so bad, but it's the essential thing that this law and the law that it doesn't apply. If this law is said to be an obstacle to the fight against organised crime, corruption and at all against crime and the execution and execution of the most serious forms of crime, it absolutely does not stand. This law, unless it is followed by other measures, better organised by the Ministry of the Interior, working on the discovery of the most serious crimes, will do nothing and will remain a dead letter on paper. This law cannot cover the ineffectiveness of competent authorities to investigate and prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences. This law is one step towards better and more secure work and towards a more precise determination of certain crimes, but it is certainly absolutely insufficient if we are going towards a better finding of the perpetrator of criminal offences and a reduction in the rate of criminality which, to remind ourselves, is in the last year in Serbia on a significant increase, especially in terms of the most difficult forms of crime. But that's not the point of the agenda. This law, by introducing new crimes and by regulating some crimes in a different way, has this amount of normability, but we believe that this law also introduces symmetricity. We are in a situation where, for certain crimes, such as crimes against the expression of will, i.e. elections and insults on a national basis, we have the same punishment as for some kind of murder. It is this symmetricity that is introduced and that interferes with the importance of harming certain goods that are protected by law. First of all, the most important good that is protected by law, which is life, body and the health of citizens, and that is what is most protected by every legislation. Here we come to the introduction of non-symmetry in the very protective goods, an insult on a national basis can be ranked as some kind of murder, which is absolutely unsuitable to us at this point. Of course, for these crimes on a national basis is the most widespread spectrum of criminal acts, and these are acts against electoral will and rights on a national basis, and this should be regulated. In our view, we may need to balance the relationship between these penalties with the penalties that concern, above all, the crimes that are committed against life and body, or the health of citizens. This law also introduces a new chapter on corruption. There are special forms of criminal acts of abuse of official position, giving and receiving bribes. We believe that definitions in certain forms of criminal activity are inaccurate, quite confusing and in practice inconclusive. So, the pompous announcement of this segment of criminal acts as one of the key arguments about the start of the broba against corruption, we are afraid it will not produce enough good results. We as DSS have proposed amendments that are now going towards clarifying the definition of some forms of these crimes and balancing penalties for certain forms of criminal acts. I can't have special forms of criminal offences milder than a general form of crime, which is abuse of official office, for example. It is not possible to abuse the official position of corruption in some areas, such as the judiciary, to punish it more lightly than corruption in education. We do not see that the degree of social danger is greater for corruption in education than for corruption in the judiciary. On the contrary, we believe that these acts are equally socially dangerous, both of them, and perhaps even more dangerous in the judiciary, because it is the judiciary that needs to be done with the help of everyone else, and even with the help of this people's congregation, to work to build a rule of law. These are the crimes that we wanted our amendments and made them more precisely defined. Also, no domestic violence has been fully defined. There have been a lot of objections and I hope the Ministry, as far as I can tell, will do something to repair that part of domestic violence or to adopt the amendments that exist. One type of domestic violence cannot be regulated, and another form cannot be regulated. We think it's probably a failure first of all, not the proposal not to regulate that part. We're like the DSS, because this is an extremely important matter that needs to be precisely regulated, we've submitted a lot of amendments that go towards more precise definition of certain crimes. We also believe that by abolishing the death penalty, the criminal policy itself should have been directed differently, organised differently, and increased the penalties for some crimes. Especially if they mean, say, punishment for murder, penalties for serious physical injury, penalties for fighting, penalties for waving a gun in a fight, penalties for robbery, for heavy theft, for evasion and fraud, for taking away a vehicle, as well as for insecure work in the economy of commercial business, deliberately causing bankruptcy, causing false bankruptcy. So these are the crimes that the proposer didn't touch, which absolutely remained in the same form that we had. Penalty policy on these crimes remained the same. In view of the conclusion of a harmful contract, deception and everything else, which will be very important for us in this process of privatisation and transition, especially after the adoption of the Labour Act, these crimes have remained completely intact, so we believe that it was necessary to account for the introduction of a strict criminal policy. In particular, given that we expect foreign investments in the privatisation and transition process, then there should be criminal acts involved to protect us from an industry that will pollute the environment. Crimes, for example, for environmental pollution, water pollution for drinking and food products remained the same and intact. There may have been a need to take into account, improve the definitions themselves, expand and strengthen criminal policy. In this case, there are some segments that have been regulated, and we believe that other crimes should be paid attention. We can't say that the law remained indifferent, but it didn't touch those crimes that primarily concern murder, robbery, smuggling, fraud, the creation of criminal associations, the destruction of the economy, national wealth. So, all those acts that concern these perpetrators of the work I've already mentioned. The DSS has submitted more amendments and we will vote - for the principle, and on the bill of the whole depending on the debate... (President: 10 minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... on amendments and if our amendments, for those we consider important, which are heading towards improving the bill, are adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18811	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is pointless for the National Assembly to pass this law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law for the simple reason that Serbia does not need criminal law. A state that doesn't have courts, what's the criminal code for? With us, since DOS came to power, the courts don't exist at all. There's been a lot of trouble before. Before, there were many instrumentalized judges, bribery, corruption, etc. Since the DOS came to power, all courts in this country have been a direct extension of DOS's party apparatus. Here's a concrete example. Ljubomir Jovanovic Glassen fired eight bullets in Petar Panic in early 2000. You can laugh till you're ready, you'll have a laugh and it'll freeze on your faces. He shot him with four bullets in his stomach, two or three in his lungs, one in his leg, one in his arm and fled abroad. He's got an APB on him. He should not have returned to the ground until the DOS came to power. When DOS came to power, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass, and no court prosecuted him, he's not in prison, he's not in custody, he's nothing. Why? Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass is cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic. That's the reason. In this country, the biggest pain is with the mob. There's been a mob here for ten years, running all the oil business, oil smuggling, tobacco, weapons, drugs. Who's making this mob? Stanko Subotić Cane, Filip Cepter and Dragoljub Marković, called "Krmivoproduct". They've been guilty of all key liquidations for the past 10 years. Some of them were called an APB, and when DOS came to power, the warrants were withdrawn. Who are the instruments of this dirty business mob? It is Jovica Stanisic, Franco Simatović-Franki, Milorad Lukovic Legion, Mihalj Kertes, Dragan Vasiljkovic called Captain Dragan and so on. Behind all the murders, the key murders on Belgrade's asphalt and elsewhere in Serbia, they stand. Why can't any court be able to bring them to justice? Because they are all the closest friends of Zoran Djindjic, Serbian Prime Minister. Zoran Djindjic is a child of the mafia, and the mafia has grown under Milosevic and the socialist regime. There she had nickels, her hands were freed on various issues, she was slowly alone, she was developing, and so on. The mafia created Zoran Djindjic back then. As early as 1993, at a press conference for the Serbian Radical Party, I announced that UDBA is preparing to replace Dragoljub Micunovic and bring Zoran Djindjic as head of the Democratic Party. That's what's left, it's in one of my books published. UDBA did so, UDBA launched Zoran Djindjic, and then when she was so raped, and Milosevic so weakened, a move by the mob eliminated Milosevic and brought Zoran Djindjic to power. That mob killed...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18813	I ask the People's MP, he is obliged to present the true facts and not to speak of data from other persons' private lives, because the truth is...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18814	Mrs. Komic, in your opinion, when someone is said...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18815	... in the fact that the elections were held on 26 September 2000 and 23 December 2000...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18816	Mrs. Comic, don't waste my time so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18817	I won't, when you're in the topic and you don't violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18818	You know, if I were to take things out of other people's private lives, I'd be dealing with what Goran Vesic is dealing with; he's giving someone a sexual affair, he's directing someone, he's making someone up, someone's been made public, and that's what DOS is about, and I don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18819	National MP, it is the same statement of facts from other people's private lives, in this case of MP Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18820	Mrs. Comic, in my first year of law school, I learned that someone's line with the mafia as a data can't be a fact of private life. It's a fact of public life. Here, someone throws Milan Lukic here. Milan Lukic is the closest cousin of General Sreten Lukic, who is one of the chief police chiefs under DOS rule. You're in power, you should also shed light on the abduction and liquidation of Muslims from the train in Strpci and many other things. However, what is the key argument against your authority?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18821	I ask the MPs not to earn, and I remind the speaker that he is obliged to honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18822	Do not protect me from your MPs, but this time that you eat to make up for me, Mrs. Komic, that would be the right thing to do in this case. In August of last year, Momir Gavrilovic, a former senior UDBE official of the Republic of Serbia, was killed. Why was he killed? Because Vojislav Kostunica...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18823	I ask the MP to present the true facts,...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18824	Wait, is it true Momir Gavrilovic was murdered?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18825	UDBA as an organisation does not exist in the Republic of Serbia recently.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18826	What doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18827	It's a wedding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18828	It exists and it's called the State Security Resor, it's abbreviations UDBA, and you don't know anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18829	Then it's Rudba.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18830	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18831	Then it's Rudba. I would ask you to inform the public correctly in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18832	What now? First, it's the UDBE resort. When the interior minister is said, it is not said to be the interior minister, but said to be the interior minister. If you think that's funny, you're making a terrible mistake. If you think in such a way that you can waver at me in telling the truth, you are even more wrong. And if you think you can de-concentrate me with constant and pointless incursions, then you're all wrong and there's nothing. Momir Gavrilović...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18833	I'm on my way as well as Serbia, and what I warn you about is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18834	Momir Gavrilovic was killed in August last year. The investigation didn't shed any light on it. What's Serbia's Criminal Law going to do if a high-ranking UDBE officer gets killed like that on the street and no one can shed light on that murder. And why was Momir Gavrilovic killed? Because Vojislav Kostunica, as president of the SRJ, gave him a lot of information about the mafia's activities in our country and was willing to give him more in various documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18835	National MP, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly again, providing facts from other persons' private lives, unless you have made a written statement to the competent authority on the presence of a conversation between the persons mentioned in that case. In any case, you do not have the right to give such facts to the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18836	The fact that Momir Gavrilovic provided information to Vojislav Kostunica, is it from the private life of Vojislav Kostunica or Momira Gavrilovic? Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18837	You can't continue if you're going to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18838	I only bring out the facts of the public life of the whole nation, and I say nothing about private life. I don't get involved in anybody's private life. I don't care about Zoran Djindjic's mistresses or anyone else, if they're capable of having it at all. I'm not getting involved in this. What's going on in their apartments, I don't care about that either. Murders in Serbia cannot be the facts of anyone's private life. You take care of what these words of yours can mean in the Serbian public: authorities must not be accused of not being able to shed light on the murder because it is the fact of private life. Further, a month, 28 days before the September elections, when it was clear and there was no possibility of anything changing there, it was clear that in front of the DOS, Vojislav Kostunica and DOS lists were concluded, as well as lists of all other parties, was kidnapped and liquidated Ivan Stambolic. Why? Could a stronger blow have struck Slobodan Milosevic in an election campaign than the kidnapping and liquidation of Ivan Stambolic? No, because Milosevic, if he wanted to liquidate someone, would have liquidated Kostunica, would have liquidated me, would have liquidated someone who was a political danger to him at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18839	People's MP, you are again presenting facts and views on behalf of other persons, which you cannot do as a MP for the speaker in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18840	What attitudes on behalf of others? I'm not taking anything out here but my attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18841	You're talking about what other people would do. You can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18842	I'm not saying what he would do...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18843	Speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18844	It's where logic would be if he was ever ready to do things like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18845	I warn you of a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that you must recognize that other people do not have the same logic as you do, fortunately or unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18846	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18847	Member of the Rules of Procedure on the fact that the MP behind the pay phone cannot express the facts of other persons' private lives, and you draw courts about what other people wanted or did not want to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18848	So I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure because I'm presenting the facts of Ivan Stambolic's private life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18849	That's right. You don't know what Ivan Stambolic wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18850	Here, I present the facts of Ivan Stambolic's private life. What facts do I bring out of Ivan Stambolic's private life? The fact from his private life that Ivan Stambolic was kidnapped and liquidated. This is about the Criminal Law, a criminal law that cannot protect the lives of people in this country because the Criminal Law does not apply. Criminal law does not apply to the mafia because the mafia is under the protection of Zoran Djindjic, because Milorad Lukovic is the Legion as the main organizer of the assassination of the Ibaric Master...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18851	Such facts can only be presented if you are a member of an organization or a direct witness to an agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18852	... and the assassination in Budva, because he is the closest friend of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18853	You cannot, as a Parliamentarian for the speaker, make such claims without proof that you are either a member of that organization or a direct witness to the agreement...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18854	The role of Milorad Lukovic of the Legion on the Ibar assassination was also strengthened by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Survey Committee. It was formed at the end of 2000, and that's a fact. The fact that Milorad Lukovic's Legion organized an assassination at the Ibari Master's Office, organized an assassination in Budva and killed a huge number of people, did not bring out facts from the private life of Milorad Lukovic of the Legion. This is a much more serious matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18855	You can't make claims about the organization of an assassination without evidence or without your reporting to the authorities, that you have knowledge that the gentleman you mentioned organized the murder. (The chairman and MP Vojislav Seselj speak at the same time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18856	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18857	You cannot make such claims at the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18858	It seems I can't because Milorad Lukovic is the Legion, as the biggest killer in this country, under the protection of the DOS majority in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18859	Under Article 220(1), which obliges the Chair of the National Assembly to notify the MP of the rights and duties, I would like to inform you that all the valuable data you have, which would allow the application of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, is the subject of your direct contact between the interior ministry in the Public and State Security Resolution. So, all the data will be welcome and I am informing the MP that the ministry's portfolio is a place to discuss such a species. The National Assembly speaker isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18860	I thank you for teaching me legally, but Momir Gavrilovic thought it was enough for Kostunica to go and tell everything, so Djindjic's people killed him in the middle of the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18861	You cannot know what Momir Gavrilovic meant, in no way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18862	I have sent data to the Ministry of the Interior, concerning the murder of Radovan Stojčić Badge, a police general, and they turned it against me, because the murderer of Radovan Stojcic, the police general, must not be discovered. Other police generals confirm before the Federal Assembly survey boards that Stanko Subotic Cane organised the Badžina murder because they had previously been in a large cigarette smuggling together, and then had a fight with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18863	14 minutes, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18864	Of the 14 at least you spent four minutes on me. I've got 10 minutes left. I knew you were the person who strictly adhered to the Rules of Procedure. Sometimes she doesn't understand something, and when she's explained it, she accepts a logical explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18865	Which is our mutual trait.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this country, only those who are against DOS rule are tried. There is no trial in this country. One who is close to Djindjic's regime can kill unhindered. These people were Djindjics, and red berets even played demonstrations under full military equipment and weapons in their hands in November of New Belgrade. Has anyone been replaced? No one's been replaced. You know what else is going on?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18867	I remind the MP that he is obliged to present the true facts behind the pay phone. If he has not been informed of his shifts at the Ministry of the Interior, I shall inform him under Article 220(1) that the Government of the Republic of Serbia may, through the competent Security Committee, deliver to the People's Parliament the names of the competent resolution on shifts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18868	Let me get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18869	Not if you're going to tell the lies behind the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18870	Look what Djindjic's regime is doing. People who participated most directly in the liquidations are Bracanovic, Popivoda, Franco Simatović Franki, Dragan FilipovićFića and others, they were the most important round of liquidators, and they were formerly senior UDBE officials, and now Djindjic has started putting them in the most important places in Serbia's National Security Office. It is these people, and there is a lot of evidence that the Legion is the key behind Arkan's murder, especially when we consider that this Radmila Hrustanovic, mayor of Belgrade, was involved in falsifying some Arkan's will or forging the signature of his former wife Natalia to give away large assets. It's these people, researching all these facts and circumstances that will lead us to the full truth. Whatever you're doing to block the truth out of the media, you're not gonna make it, because the truth can't be hidden. Here, Vladan Batic, to his will, can be fooled on this matter, all these people have stained their hands to the elbows with blood, often with the blood of innocents. That is why the large DOS fraud and co-operation with top interior and UDBE Montenegro to cover up facts relating to the murder of Defence Minister Pavlovic Bulatovic. Hit that we've come up with a huge number of facts, evidence, indications, they want to cover up all the clues. That's the point, and it's not worth any criminal law when the mob runs the state. The Mafia decides on the fate of all people and individuals and groups. The Mafia's got all the big jobs, all the smuggling...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18871	People's MP, with a statement you just made at the pay phone, you insulted the dignity of the National Assembly, all of us MPs, the citizens who chose us...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18872	What statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18873	A quote about your statement, after which I interrupted you, can be found in the National Assembly stenogram. It's a statement that's unacceptable to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18874	Which one's inadmissible?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18875	If you as a People's Messenger cannot determine for yourselves what the dignity of the National Assembly is, I give you the first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18876	Thank you for your first warning. What kind of punishment is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18877	You can get a notice of punishment from the board on administrative matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18878	Let's get to the second warning, just make sure it's a gradual punishment. Don't say the strictest words to me, let it go gradually. Let's get to the second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18879	Don't make a political stand out of this payphone and make this assembly with falseness, and I won't intervene at any time, but we'll listen with attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18880	The assembly is always a political tribune. The Assembly shall be governed by legislative authority and administrative and judicial authority. In the debate on Criminal Law, we show that the full administrative authority in the hands of the mafia thanks to Zoran Djindjic, who is the main exhibit of the mafia, and that the judicial authority is instrumentalised by the administrative authority, not by law and conscience, but by the orders of the highest state officials. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18881	People's MP, you have no right to insult all those people who are in judicial office in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18882	I don't insult all the people who are in judicial functions, but the main ones that DOS's government has instrumented for dirty work. These are primarily Leposava Karamarkovic, who is president of the Supreme Court of Serbia....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18883	General places of this kind are an insult to people who perform judicial functions and on this basis I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18884	And this Vida Popovic-Skero, who is the president of the Belgrade District Court. These are two main levers in the judicial system through which the mafia bypasses laws and judges exclusively according to the will of DOS state officials. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, instead of a pointless debate on fortune tellers, returners, psychics, which abounds with this law on amendments and additions to the Serbian Criminal Law, we need to discuss the greatest evil that threatens Serbia, which is the mafia. The main mob leaders, the main mafia instruments are known, and that the mafia would care about the area of the sea, the main mafia instrument Zoran Djindjic is being replaced by the Serbian Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18885	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18886	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to apologize to you for all the things you had to hear. It's a shame and a tragedy for this country, I think we're like MPs doing our job amongst other things, to put up with this, but our public isn't. Mr. Seselj, you're nervous about The Hague tribunal, about the war crimes you've organized and committed. (Glasses - where's the warning now. [[growls]] )......................................................................................................... You're nervous...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18887	I ask the MP to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to express his views on the mood of another MP. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the bench and to honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Sagar.]] [[elevator.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18888	... for the purpose of Article 47. A criminal law that treats murders...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18889	One more throw from the bench... Ambassador Natasu Jovanovic and Slobodan Janjic to... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18890	... You are nervous about a member of the 60s, who treats violence against other peoples, ethnic groups or religious communities, you are nervous about a member of 65 who is being treated for extortion, you are nervous about the violation of the integrity of the apartment in Article 68. Mr. Seselj, if someone tried to describe everything you've done to this country in the past ten years, the most accurate list would be reading from member to member of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Be assured that Serbia will not tolerate you, at least while we are in power. You'll be responsible for everything you've done. It will not be our pleasure, but it is an obligation, because you are an insult to this society, an insult to the Serbian people and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18891	MP Vojislav Seselj, replica. It was a replica (received to the messengers who resented). Excuse me, MP. MP Cedomir Jovanovic asked for a replica, for mentioning his name, so you have no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18892	So I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18893	You have no basis for replication. People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic had a replica You have no basis for replica, MP. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18894	You didn't give it to me? Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18895	No, because we need to determine if there's a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18896	Then why did you even give me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18897	No, I said you were looking for a word, and the basis for the replica would be if MP Cedomir Jovanovic called as president of the parliamentary group, since he had a replica of your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18898	Then give me the Rules of Procedure and please keep your mouth shut, and I'll talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18899	Of course. Every time you compromise your exposure, the manner of speech and the violations of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as chairman, who is the only one who has the right to interrupt the speaker, I will address you, for this is my obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18900	I know, but I haven't even started talking yet, and you're interrupting me. What are you doing here? Can I start?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18901	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18902	First, you broke the Rules of Procedure because you gave the word to Cedomir Jovanovic as head of the parliamentary group, and you gave me the opportunity to replicate, and then you changed your mind to the rebellion from the Cedomir Jovanovic bench. And I wanted to warn you, as for the Rules of Procedure, this is where Cedomir Jovanovic spoke of some war crimes, you did not react. One of the biggest war criminals is Ljubisa Savic Mauser, senior official of the Democratic Party, president of the Democratic Party for Republika Srpska, with which Djindjic participated in the 96th and 97th campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18903	Cedomir Jovanovic mentioned... [[growls]] I also intervened as I reminded you of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18904	Well, you won't let me advertise the Rules of Procedure at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18905	I'll allow it, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18906	Then don't get in my word, let me explain to you what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about. You can't, when I'm criticizing you through advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, come right into my word and answer me. You have to listen to me for three minutes, then explain to me what you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18907	I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18908	You are not obliged to make it impossible for me to speak to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18909	... to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18910	The main war criminal in Republika Srpska is Ljubisa Savic Mauser, a senior official of the Democratic Party. He killed the most people in Janja, more than a thousand TAMs, three, five-toners robbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18911	Where's your breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18912	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is that you allow Cedomir Jovanovic to accuse various people, and the main war criminals were Djindjic's associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18913	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran D. Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18914	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I admit it's hard to talk normally about the draft law that's on the agenda, but I'll take the right to try. I'm saying it's not easy. Before I comment on this law, I am obliged to remind myself and you that the National Assembly, some time ago, made a decision in accordance with the Constitution to regulate the area of criminal law at federal level. I'm not entering the grounds, they're also being talked about by Mr. Minister, whether this decision of the National Assembly was possible or not in these conditions, but it's inadmissible to go over one decision of the National Assembly about this area, as if it's not there at all. I think it shows a relationship between the failure of this parliament, and also the non-compliance of the criteria divided into legislative, executive and judicial authority, which thus becomes merely a declaration, because it is obvious that the only real power and power in this country is in the hands of the government. The debate on the criminal legislation of every country, including ours, is actually a debate on the basic values, rights and freedoms on which each civilised community rests, including the way these values are preserved in the fight against socially dangerous phenomena and their carriers. So the real question, in my opinion, is which values of our society are protected by this law and in what way. As MPs, we are obliged to give a fair answer to this issue, and this will certainly depend on Parliament's overall attitude towards the bill. For us socialists, this bill contains parts that can and can be accepted, but in most parts it is unacceptable, inconclusive, sometimes and contradictory, so as such, in general, it will not have our support. I'd like to try to explain my grades in the next presentation. The introductory provisions of the bill concern the abolition of the death penalty and its replacement for the 40-year prison sentence for the most severe forms of serious crimes. This is the logical consequence of the recent changes in criminal law at the federal level. For us Socialists, the issue of death penalty, i.e. the existence of a death penalty, was resolved politically by the adoption of the federal constitution in 1992. But I think it's a real opportunity and why not say it -- there are few countries that would end the death penalty if they were in the circumstances that have followed Serbia in the last decade. These were the circumstances of a year of high pressure and blackmail, sanctions and economic poverty, years of strong support for Albanian terrorism and separatism, the years of thousands of refugees and displaced and aggression on our country. They say that abolishing the death penalty is one of the conditions for our entry into the Council of Europe, although there are countries in that body that have not done so in their legislation. In particular, the criticisms of our criminal legislation by those countries that still kill their minors in electric chairs are unacceptable. Article 5 The bill introduces a new crime - violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community, which is prescribed to punish one who is a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community for assault, a serious insult, abuse or commits other violence in a way or under circumstances that cause a sense of uncertainty or inequality. In light of the law, it states that violence against these citizens has been frequented and this justifies the introduction of this crime. I'm not sure this claim is based on real facts. Serbia has never been a genocide in its history, it has never been a state where violence against citizens of other religion or nationality was a characteristic phenomenon. Because if it were, Serbia would probably become a one-national state through its long existence so far, in which everyone at risk would leave this space on a national or religious basis. Fortunately, from St. Sava to this day, all the humiliated and disfellowshipped came to Serbia and found safe and safe haven for themselves and for their loved ones. So why do we propose a new crime that, in our opinion, there is no objective standoff in our history or in our present. Probably to present themselves in the world as a country in which violence against other peoples is ruled, so now it is necessary to sanction it sharply; or perhaps to add another shameful link in this chain of self-indiction for other peoples' sins and foreign violence against our country and our people; or perhaps to present in the era of universal end to the history of the fight against terrorism and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija as violence against another people. All of this suggests that the introduction of this crime is unnecessary, even harmful. Similarly, a new criminal offense to freedom of movement and housing can be said. I think this part actually protects something that isn't compromised. I remind you that in this country, both in the country that preceded this country and in the time of the one-party system, freedom of movement was one of the fundamental freedoms that was respected. Otherwise, I have no objection to the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen being protected by rigorous criminal legislation, but if there is already protection of freedom of movement which, in my opinion, has never been compromised in these premises, nor is it today, what is it with the constitutional right to citizenship? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that a citizen of this country cannot be deprived of citizenship, expelled or extradited. In the case of kidnapping and delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, the government of the Republic of Serbia has just removed the protection that the Constitution provides to every citizen in this area. How does it even make sense to change criminal legislation if the government, which is the most responsible for law enforcement, violates the Constitution and laws when it considers it useful? Such a macroeconomic logic also devises the need to adopt a new constitution, because it can only be talked about a new constitution if we previously accept, support and respect the existing Constitution, which, unfortunately, is not the case in this Serbia. As for the crime of high treason, there are also a lot of good elements in it, and I will read it to the public: "It will be punished by a prison of at least five years by someone who tries to use force to change the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, to overthrow its most state bodies or to endanger the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. "This first and third element, meaning the change in constitutional arrangement and the threat of territorial integrity, certainly has the justification to incriminate, but I fear that this termology used here, that whoever tries to overthrow the most state bodies, in the way it's written, will actually serve to fight political opponents. We see that today's reality in Serbia, not only these years, but also in years after us, are numerous public gatherings, demonstrations, in which citizens and political groups express dissatisfaction with the work of the state, the work of the government, the work of the state authorities. Will anyone dare to interpret the new element of this crime, attempt to overthrow state authorities, if tens of thousands of people are gathered in front of the government building, or the Assembly, and are looking for a government shift or early elections? I would like to be denied practice and that there really is no abuse here in the fight against political insinuation. I said it at the beginning, and I'm saying, in this bill of law and good elements -- first of all, it's a good thing it's a strict criminal policy, which is about crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, against electoral rights and freedom of expression, against dignity of personality and morals, against human health and the human environment. We believe that barring more severe sanctions for these acts will also contribute to reducing these acts. What I think is missing from this, and could have found places in this bill, too, is about the criminal protection of minors. Especially remains the unprotected mental health of minors. I will remind you when we discussed the Bill on the Protection of Minors a few months ago in this House, the law was not passed, but at least through the discussion of all those who took part in the debate, which belonged to all parliamentary groups, this segment of protection of minors was won, I think, by full support, and at that time there were even words - it is not right that this is prescribed in a special law; protecting the mental health of minors is the place in the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. So, the real opportunity was for this law to be settled mentally. I'm sorry that it wasn't done by the government, there weren't even amendments to the MPs, it's a grudge to all of us, and what maybe in some way can also seem stimulating to those who destroy the mental health of minors, and here we were primarily thinking about sects. We are repealing Article 238, which is related to the abuse of faith and the church of political purpose. I think we could just sanction a great social evil, which is objectively growing and objectively affecting the healthy life of young people. And at the end of this part of exposure, a little comment from a new group of crimes against corruption. There is no doubt that corruption is a single social evil, which we are facing as a society and a state, but we believe that here, in a specific case, is about double normisation, which will only interfere with application, and detection and sanctioning. Detention of criminal acts of bribery and bribery in force and regulation of criminal acts against corruption in another way, and all the elements of these acts are essential elements of the part of taking and giving bribes, in practice will make it more difficult to sanction this undesirable social phenomenon. I think the real answer here is in the difficulty of proving these acts, because both the perpetrator and all the perpetrators are related to the common interest - that the work is not revealed. That's why I think the real answer is not to double the standard of corruption as a social evil, but to train the law enforcement and detection of these acts, both human, material and technical, to deal more successfully with this social evil. Thank you so much. For all that, I must say, the SPS will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18915	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move to a debate in principle, according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principle debate on the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. First reported is MP George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18916	The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which we are discussing today, was first divided into the form of a working version by the MPs of this assembly last June. That's when the public debate began, in the opinion of the DSS parliamentary group, although I see that the others do not share an opinion and say that there was no public debate. The work version was translated into a proposal from 13 September last year and it appears that no suggestion from the public debate has been respected, so the proposal has entered the procedure. More amendments have been tabled than all parliamentary groups. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted 50 amendments. The proposal was withdrawn because the death penalty was lifted at the federal level and the new proposal was submitted on 13 November. No amendment to any MP has found a place in this proposal since 13 November, so it seems that we have all failed a criminal law exam with the Serbian government, because it is simply inexplicable that from several amendments, which are very good, none of the Serbian government experts have inspired these amendments to respect. As for the quality of this law, the DSS parliamentary group does not share the optimism of the Serbian government and we are very reserved for some solutions. The proposal was written routinely, without sufficient information on the modern flows of criminal and legal thought and legislation. I have to say, there's been no good definition of crimes. The construction of the legal description of the work in most cases was wrong, so it felt like a layman's approach. The description of the act is not defined, so there is no clear legal difference between the action and the consequences, which can have very serious consequences in criminal law. The biggest newspaper is not the abolition of the death penalty, because it was abolished in federal law, so we understand each other right away. We made that commitment by ratifying the Second Protocol of the Civil and Political Rights Pact, and unanimously in both major federal parliaments, a decision was made to abolish the death penalty. If that estimate was good, we'll see about that. However, it seems that the main motive was to knock on the door of the Council of Europe, and to forget the social circumstances of the European Community countries until 1984, when the decision to abolish the death penalty was made there. In France, during the Mitteran, heads rolled from the guillotine. It should be kept in mind the standard of living there at the time before the death penalty was abolished. This transplanting of solutions from the European Union, regardless of the social circumstances, doesn't seem to me to be the best, but well, the bill for this abolition of the death penalty may come faster than we think. In addition, we feel that political freedoms mean little in society without social freedoms. If there are no adequate social freedoms, then in the absence of these freedoms there is a source of crime, which should be taken into account. The increased repression proposed by law is not a cure for society. We have so far had very high sentences in the law, and the conditions in our prisons have been very difficult, so when we compare these criteria with European laws, we need to have before us the facts of the situation in our prisons and what it means 10 years in our prison, and what it means 10 years in Swedish. We believe that swift and effective justice, but not hasty, for all perpetrators of crime, is the most effective fight against crime. You can have as many strict sentences as you want, but if there's no quick and effective justice for all the perpetrators of the crime, then we can have for every act a life sentence intended for, it won't yield any results. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that criminal law is the most powerful when a state apparatus does not exert any pressure to exercise its criminal right. That should be kept in mind today. The impact of criminal law and punishment depends on a number of factors, not only on severe punishments. I must say, it's inexplicable how the crime of spreading false news was maintained in Criminal Law. It's a verbal political delinquent, a shortened version of hostile propaganda. If the death penalty is lifted to knock on the Council of Europe's door, then the crime of spreading false news or reshaping it must be abolished. In our environment, the crime of spreading false news in Slovenia was abolished in 1989 and in Montenegro in 1992. Here it was formulated in such a way that it was not substantially altered as was predicted in 1959. No adequate protection has been provided for the officials of the judiciary. In some countries, commenting on a court ruling costs 150 diaries or six months in prison. In our case, the verdicts comment on who they want. In such an atmosphere, there is no authority of courts and judicial authorities. Some of the works have been overrun, such as public traffic endangerment. It could also have found a place in these changes. There are no words about computer crime, so now we have a situation where police are training their own personnel to detect computer crime, and there's no such thing as criminal law, so the police will be trained in criminal acts that are not provided for by criminal law. In addition, since a 40-year sentence is now proposed, we believe that the Ministry of Justice should seriously consider that the rights of the prisoners are no longer decided by the administrations of the Ministry of Justice and the departments of justice, but by special courts, because it is unimaginable that those who exercise the sentence of imprisonment decide also on the rights of prisoners. In principle, we will vote for this law. We will recommend our amendments to the MPs, and as far as the Government's representatives are concerned, I don't think we will have to convince them much about the essence of our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18917	The People's MP Jovan Deretic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18918	The respected presidency, respected colleagues and respected listeners, we have an important bill before us, which is the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. That law regulates most of the relationships in our society. However, the problem is in the application of the law. We've had one Penal Code so far that wasn't so bad, but it wasn't even very good. There were certain penalties to be tightened. The meaning and main objective of the Criminal Code are not only in punishing criminals but also in preventing crime, preventing wrong practices and evil deeds. We have before us the experience of other peoples and other nations who also had a lot of problems with their offenders. Let's just say, this bill is something better than it's ever been, but it's not good enough. It is necessary to improve and should seek to amend this bill. For example, in the U.S., a criminal can get 150 years in prison. Everyone knows that such a offender can't live for 150 years to endure punishment, but most of them have to think about the amount of punishment for their crimes and that it has a preemptive effect on offenders. It's that the current government doesn't look up to that great nation in anything, but it's a role model for some 19th-century Kaiser Germany. Let's put that aside and it'll come to its place. It's in this law of demagogy. For example, art. 70th and 72nd, unauthorized listening and breach of letter secrecy. We know that the phones are tapped, that the secret of the letter is not respected. There are also good members of the law, which should certainly be tightened a little, such as falsifying elections, destroying election documents. You know what happened on October 5th, when the voter's lining was burned in the Assembly so that the voter's results could not be re-checked. No one answered for that. We have an injury to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, and you know where the reputation of the Republic of Serbia is today and who is to blame. We have hard deeds against people's health, for which a sentence of five to ten years is foreseen. Gentlemen, a debate is now being held in front of the French parliament on the use of poor uranium in Serbian countries, where 30,000 bombs and 11,000 other various missiles, filled with poor uranium, are said to have been used in Serbian countries. The secretary of the organisation who committed the crime is walking around Belgrade and dictates to us what state we will have or better said that we will not have it. It's not the criminal law itself, it's his application. Back in ancient times, legislators knew where the problem was in law, so they defined the law as a spider's web that was created to stop the weak and the weak, and through which the bumblebees and the horned springs had no problems. That's also the case with our criminal code. Try to improve it with amendments, as soon as the change of power comes, when Serbia's third option, the rule of law will be introduced and the laws will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18919	Thank you very much. The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and after that, a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18920	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the main feature of our criminal law during this period was insufficiently a harsh criminal policy for certain crimes, as well as the existence of overcoming crimes. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry of Justice and local self-government propose three key things to this law, which is to tighten criminal provisions, introduce new incriminations, but certainly the most remarkable mark of this law is the abolition of the death penalty. The regulation of the Council of Europe and of the European Union is not allowed for countries that claim to be members of these organisations to have in their criminal laws the sentence of death, as the sentence is considered ineffective and unjustly harsh. Criminal research shows that contrary to belief, the existence of a death penalty does not serve general prevention, or does not affect potential perpetrators of criminal acts. The foothold for this claim is in the fact that these crimes are committed in a specific state of consciousness, when the perpetrator does not consider the intended punishment, but his entire activity is directed precisely at that part to avoid the sentence or not to be caught and convicted for that act. The European Community is in the view that the death penalty is non-civilising cruelty, and in addition it does not affect the reduction of the most severe blood work. As an example, this is exactly what the United States mentioned earlier, where there is a death penalty, and crime rates are growing almost year after year, and this is particularly true of the rates of violent crime. There is an opposition to the abolition of the death penalty, and it is from that part of the conservative supporters of criminal law, which, in favour of the defence of the existence of the death penalty, cites arguments that this is the case for the perpetrators, if the death penalty is abolished, so that there will be no more preventive action on them. Others believe that the length of the prison sentence, which some of my colleagues mentioned earlier, is limited to serious crimes by this law now to 40 years, because the long time sentence is in some cases greater than the execution itself. We have research that a person who spends more than 12 years in prison is no longer for society. There are also those who believe that, in addition to increasing the time sentence of prison, there should be a death penalty as another punishment, which would serve as a threat and prevention. The government and the resolution ministry will appreciate all these circumstances they had ahead of them. They accepted the expert public's opinion to decide to abolish the death penalty and impose a prison sentence for 40 years. How pointless the existence of the death penalty in our criminal law was, it says that today, in our prisons, we have persons who are sentenced to death and are waiting to be executed for up to 17 years. You can imagine what their condition is now. This law certainly makes us a big step towards Europe, and that is the most important shift we have been tasked with making. This law also provides for the tightening of penalties for several crimes that have grown over the past years and that certainly appear in our society. Article 6 of this law on the crime of kidnapping now provides for the tightening of prison sentences from one to seven years, and in the position of the 2nd member, which has now been amended and modified, where it is said that for the purpose of achieving the target of kidnapping, he is threatening murder or serious physical injury, he will be punished from three to ten years in prison, instead of the former from one to eight years, as scheduled. For falsifying the election, which apparently was for Serbia over the past ten years, which is why we were twice the focus of the world's public, in late 1996 and 2000, now envisioning more severe penalties. Those who wish to end, or add ballots or take ballots, and thus end the elections in their favour, must know that they are facing a prison sentence of up to five years. A new position 2 is also foreseen if, due to the article in Article 1 of this article, there is a breach of public order and peace, the perpetrator of this criminal act will not be able to keep grandkids calmly, as someone wanted here in Serbia, but will have to face prison sentences from one to ten years. This law also provides for the introduction of new eight incriminations, with the task of enabling, above all, greater personal and property security of citizens and to contribute to the consolidation of the legal order in our country. However, new incriminations could certainly be found in the envisaged changes. They did not find their place, and above all I mean domestic violence, the family community, and for which the Yugoslav Committee of Lawyers has led a special campaign for the past few months. You had, I believe, a chance to see it. Several amendments have been tabled on this subject, and there has also been a lack of criminal activity in the field of information, and we have had the opportunity to hear about it, and certainly it may be a small flaw that this criminal law carries with it. All in all, looking at the positive sides of this law and looking at these shortcomings that I have listed, and since matter is too sensitive, we can call this law reform. It contains this reform spirit within itself. The shift is our criminal - legal legislation. If we want to properly respect this law, we must not lose sight of an extremely significant fact, which is that many criminal provisions are contained and beyond the criminal law, which is certainly not good. This is also an opportunity to appeal to the Resort Ministry and the Government to decide, in a recent period of time, on one of these steps and to codify criminal legislation. In his opening statement, Minister Batic spoke about it, but I think the necessity requires that we do so within as soon as possible. The main feature of this criminal law, i.e. the proposal is to imitate our criminal legislation with European standards, is to be guided by these reasons. Democratic Party MPs, under the ruling Democratic opposition to Serbia, will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18921	I thank the People's MP. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after it is the Messenger of the people Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18922	Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum before I present my position on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. There are obviously no 126 MPs in the Assembly, and the cards of Cedomir Jovanovic and Dejan Mihajlov in the parliamentary units are also evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18923	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform those present today that round tables will be held in the National Assembly building on the subject - Law Support Programme in the field of environmental protection and institutional construction in Serbia. The first round table will be held in the session session of the National Assembly at 1400 hours in a small hall, with the participation of MPs, members of DOS parliamentary groups and DOS-DSS. The second round table will be held after the meeting of the National Assembly at 1800 hours, also in a small hall, with the participation of MPs, members of the DOS- League parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi, DOS-New Serbia and DOS-Reformists of Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.40.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your identification cards into the MPs for the purpose of establishing the knot. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue to discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, according to applications for the word of the MPs. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes it is absolutely pointless for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss amendments and additions to the Criminal Law today. Serbia doesn't need criminal law. We don't really need any law, because we have Cedomir Jovanovic. Anyway, whenever Cedomir Jovanovic and any law are in college, Chad applies. It's not about Chad's zebra on Chad's street anymore. It's about the most serious criminal act...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18926	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18927	... The crime scene of the murder. Killing is forbidden unless you are cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18928	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please get serious and get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18929	You be patient, and you'll see I'm talking about the subject. The relatives of Cedomir Jovanovic have the right to kill freely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18930	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I give you a second warning on the basis of Articles 103 and 104, and I ask you to take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18931	I'm referring you to article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that forbids you. They shoot, they shoot Chad's cousins, bullets shoot all over the place...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18932	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I take your word from you on the basis of article 104 after two warnings and please step away from the pay phone. The word has been given by MP Dusan Budisin, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18933	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in his opening statement, Mr. Minister cited several reasons why the government had initiated to propose an amendment to the existing Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. This, I'll remind you, has already been on the agenda, but you know what reasons have prevented this from being discussed. Among other things, Mr. Minister says that it was necessary to approach this issue primarily for the purpose of tightening the sentence of some acts; then it was necessary to introduce some new acts; then, of course, to abolish the death penalty, then especially to protect minors; then, in some criminal acts, to change the legal maximum and legal minimum; and of course, some amounts had to be changed where the fines were concerned, given inflation and simply the dissuasion of the amount before that. I'm not quite sure that all these reasons Mr. Secretary has stated are standing, and here's why. First, the question arises whether there is a need for this law today. When I say this, I think, first of all, that we are facing a new constitution, redefining relations in the Federation, and then we need to give a preliminary answer to one question: namely, will they join the single criminal legislation, since three resolutions are possible; then will, as so far, be left with federal law, that the republics also regulate their laws on certain issues; and, finally, will it be fully in the jurisdiction of one and the other federal units? In this state of affairs, when we're about to have this whole job, then the logical question is, was it time to approach this business? I'm not sure I should have done that now. However, the truth of the matter should be acknowledged that some of the solutions in the proposed law-amending project are basically acceptable, although I would rather throw a weight on what I don't like and what I think is difficult to pass. First, if some solutions are unconstitutional, and she's got them, of course, and now I'm going to try to point to some of them. Of course, there will be more words about this when we explain our amendments, because we have placed a special focus on the very provisions that we consider unconstitutional, on the one hand, and also on the particular head that was introduced, which is corruption. For these two substances, the largest number of amendments exist by the Democratic Party of Serbia. If we're talking about unconstitutional solutions, then first of all, I'd like to set an example in Article 3, where the possibility of milder punishment is predicted. The same applies to newly introduced members of the recently mentioned chapter on corruption, which is newly introduced, more specifically Article 212a. and 212b. What's this about? The borders of criminal responsibility are prescribed by the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia. If the provisions of the general act, which apply to all criminal acts laid down in the federal laws and laws of the Republic, are resolved in a unique manner, then the bill actually raises the discovery of the work of the organizers at the level of easing circumstances. It's something else entirely, and I think it's, except it's an unconstitutional, rather obnoxious solution. Furthermore, there is an example of a harsh discrepancy in the bill, which is the case in the criminal offense of citizens' equality. In this part, the sentence has been dramatically increased, but there seems to be no legal or special criminal-political justification for it. This is where the system of values of human rights, which is protected by criminal law, is brought into line. The basic value that is protected by criminal law, above all, is the life and body of people. That was never a dispute. Therefore, there is no indication of equality between certain parts, such as those. the murder of masculine or serious physical injury and the crime of violations of citizens' equality, where, under the provisions of the law, we have the same intended sentence. In the case of violence against another people, which is one new crime, so one new member of the 60th, I think it will be very difficult in practice for judges to cope with the application of this regulation. Where's the difficulty? It is explained in the bill that the frequency of violence against these citizens, because of their belonging to another people or religion, justifies the introduction of a crime. I wouldn't say that's the case, and here's why. If, for example, a Serb committed violence against a Serb or Croat towards Croatia, then there would be no act. Then there would be either a crime of insult or some other crime, therefore, a minor crime punishable either by a fine or a small threatened prison, which in such cases, unless it is returned, is rarely pronounced. Some traits of the basic form of violence against a member of another nation, ethnic group or religious community therefore raise suspicion. It's very difficult and it's not clear what the biller thought, that, in addition to the attack, serious insult, or what he said -- and abuse, that's what he considered brutal violence. Very broad, very flat and very difficult for judges, i.e. those who need to apply the law. This is definitely what the billmaker had to think about, because there's no internal logic at all. There's also a complaint about the kidnapping crime, and that's Article 64 now. The criminal law of Serbia, where punishment increases. However, this proposal and an explanation of why these penalties are increasing, in my opinion, are unrealistic. A drastic increase in the sentence of kidnapping for more than ten days, committed in a ferocious manner, with a severe health disorder, and as she says - a minor, it is illogical because there is an unsustainable dysharmony here in relation to the perpetrator by work, because it is an incessant, therefore the consequence that is not desired, a serious injury to the health of another man, is also protected as an imaginary and committed murder, which is a quality difference and it cannot be the same. In extorting statements, it is also very unclear what was wanted by the proposal, because this law actually changes the concept of a crime. It does not increase the penalty for the crime of extorting testimony and says the crime is changing due to compliance with the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating proceedings. The draft law has left out from the description of this criminal act the use of an illicit instrument or an illicit manner as an enforcement operation, and the Criminal Procedure Act explicitly prohibits the use of such an instrument. Therefore, according to the bill, the use of narcoanalysis in taking statements is not a criminal act of extortion. It is just a few examples that, in our opinion, without the acceptance of amendments, and if this style is left behind, it will be partly anti-constitutional and non-applicable, it will remain a dead letter in the paper, and especially what will create great difficulties for those who directly apply the law. I would especially refer to article 16. The proposal for a marriage, given that there has also been a negative position by the Legislative Committee, where it is said to be punished by a prison that unlawfully deprives or restricts a citizen (under our amendment) of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia the freedom to move or settle in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is a correction of the original solution, because if it were accepted that this applies only to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was originally stated by the legislator, the citizens of Yugoslavia would be treated unequally, which is also the citizens of Montenegro, as well as the citizens of Serbia. The bill would lead to the lack of freedom of movement and residence of citizens of Montenegro in Serbia's territory not being a criminal offence and thus directly discriminated against by citizens of Montenegro. This is really incomprehensible, unless we're basically against maintaining a federal state, so we've already written off the Montenegrins. That's the only way I can understand what I've heard. A few more words about penalties, because there are several cases where the sentence has been unjustly reduced, and there are also cases where it has been unjustly increased. For example, I'd like to quote Article 25. In the form of rape, for example, it's the same punishment as for attempted murder. I don't think this has any legal logic and can't be accepted. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia has given a total of 54 amendments, which we all consider to be legally very acceptable and too high, and besides that Article 16, I will remind you, the Legislative Committee has given a positive opinion, while these amendments have not yet been discussed on the Justice Committee. Please pay attention to the amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia, because they not only improve this bill, but do something more, these amendments will only lead to the possibility that such a law, or criminal law with these amendments, will be applied. Otherwise, not only will it be difficult to apply it, but it will be very raving, given the alleged unconstitutionalities, and not one but there are more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18934	I thank the People's MP. According to the Rules of Procedure - like? (He speaks to MP Natasa Jovanovic, who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18935	While you're running, Mrs. Micic, I don't know from which direction you're scrambling the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, then you need to study the documents that are being given further authority in case you throw out one radical at a time or take away his word. I am reporting to the parliamentary group to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you took away the word of Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, because you were in no condition at all, nor did you hear what she was talking about, to repeat why you took her word away. You have heard that Cedomir Jovanovic is mentioned, and believe neither the radicals nor any normal Serbian citizen can mention him in a positive context, so since you hear that she pronounces his name, one warning, and then take away words. But since you weren't there in the afternoon part of the session, and to show you and to prove that you are using double arches, I'll read you something, Mrs. Micic, which you couldn't hear and which is recorded in the congregation stenogram. Cedomir Jovanovic said this morning, after his presentation of the SRS President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, "Mr Seselj, you are nervous about the UN war crimes you have organised and committed". And then he said, "Be sure to answer for everything you've done." And how then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will discuss and conduct a debate on the law on amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, when Cedomir Jovanovic, from the assembly speaker, warned the president of our party that he may know something that the investigative authorities do not know, that he will answer Dr Vojislav Seselj because he is the youngest doctor of legal science in the country, because he is the president of the most patriotic political party, because for 12 years he has defended the sacred Serbian countries west of Drina and Danube, because he has dealt with the mafia, and will continue to deal with the mafia, and then you should tell us that the Constitution and the laws of this country will not apply, but that Cedomir Jovanovic will apply. That is why, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you took away the word to Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, because she was just saying that we don't need the law, that you have Cedomir Jovanovic, she presented it through examples of his arrogant behaviour, criminals who are from his family, and everything he is prepared, as the chief confidant of Djindjic's criminal authority, to work in this country. I ask that the Assembly declare that you have injured the Rules of Procedure when you took the word of Mrs Gordani Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18936	I warned Mrs. Pop-Lazic twice to get back on the agenda, she never came back. My duty, according to the Rules of Procedure, is also to apply the Rules of Procedure, to impose sanctions that are intended for non-compliance and violation of the Rules of Procedure and I do not think I have violated the Rules of Procedure. But since you asked for a statement from the National Assembly, I am putting in place a proposal from MP Natasa Jovanovic, the Assembly to declare whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure by taking away the word of the People's MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. For 45, against 97, three abstentions, he did not vote 51, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly has made a decision not to harm the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18937	Ladies and gentlemen, and this bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, was already in the assembly procedure, so it was withdrawn at a session on 22 October 2001, which is another clear example of how serious it is and how serious it is in this regard. Mr. Minister, I really don't see why you're nervous, for the second time or for who knows which time, you're trying to defocus the speaker, especially when I come out here for a pay phone. If you wish, Madam President, you have the opportunity to warn the minister to resort to the right he absolutely has in the future, which is to go out for a pay phone and make all remarks behind the pay phone. So this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law is also an example that the Government does not take seriously enough costs that this assembly is producing in its work, the costs that we all 250 create, given the very, very difficult situation that is today in Serbia. I just want to point out, since it has been important on several occasions, that this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminals is also one of the attempts to bring our legislation into line or to conform to European Union legislation, that many countries in our environment have made concessions in terms of abolishing the death penalty, that many countries have done and done what they were asked to do. Until today, however, not all conditions have been met to become members of the Council of Europe. There were many words that even when this bill was passed, some remarks were used, starting with the Declaration of Human Rights, through the Human Rights Pact, and very often it was mentioned that in the abolition of the death penalty, which has indeed already been abolished, took care of the 1966 Pact on Political and Civil Rights. And from this place, I appeal to all of us, and I want to remind you that at the time that this pact on civil and political rights was brought in, the Pact on Economic and Social Rights was also brought in, so that no 250 of us here thinks that we have a little problem in this area. But what's there? In front of us today, we have this bill that, as has already been said, wants to be regulated in a partially reformist way by the area of criminal law. In its seven points -- which are tightening the penalties for certain crimes, introducing new incriminations, abolishing the death penalty, decriminalising certain crimes, extending the possibility of a milder punishment of accomplices in the execution of a certain type of criminal offence, strengthening the protection of minors by predicting more severe criminal penalties committed to those persons, increasing the security of "nominal amounts" in criminal acts whose legal mark contains property value -- clearly shows the contradiction of what was sought by such a bill. In fact, at the same time, sharpen the penalty for certain crimes, and strip or introduce new incriminations, at the same time decriminalizing certain acts, can indeed be partly illogical. In order for simple listeners, viewers, people who are not always a legal profession to be made more clear, it should be simplified and said - if the decriminalization of certain works is done on one side, a whole set of other works is introduced on the other hand, and what works - particularly works related to corruption. It is very clear here that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the DOS, is extremely important to meet the demands put before them by the international community, so all bells are ringing on the fight against corruption, as if in the course of human history, it has not been proven on many occasions that is the most effective way to fight corruption. But we also have a whole set of new crimes here, so since we're talking about being a member of the 80s. The bill regulates the criminal acts of corruption, which cite the criminal acts of corruption in the authorities of the administration, the unintended availability of funds from the budget, corruption in public procurement, the privatisation process in the judiciary, health care, education, abuse of the functions of defenders and proxies, the restriction of freedom of public information, the negotiation of the outcome of the competition, is particularly important, at least it fell to me for the eye, the criminal act of non-intentional availability of funds from the budget. Does this mean that the future will be possible for example? Some driver accused of spending a lot of gasoline, of accusing a child who received a gift for the new year or of somehow similarly leading to absurdity what is really so minor, that it should not be mentioned. Furthermore, it is mentioned in Article 79 that punishment is milder, i.e. the possibility of easing penalties for those who co-operated in the process or something like that. Also, I have to mention that it is very clear that this is also about some of the political needs that are being channeled and that are being regulated this way. With this in mind, many who are currently in or are being prosecuted are under pressure to plead on certain extenuating circumstances in one way or another, depending on the case to the occasion. Then, we Socialists were also trying to look for some bright spots within this bill, so I could say for this occasion that I really agree with Article 32, which specifically regulates sanctions on avoiding alimony payments, because this proposed solution is really good and we can really agree on that. However, there are other things we cannot agree on. I think there's been a lot of words in my predecessors' statements and, since I've already spent 7.5 minutes on my presentation, and out of respect for my colleagues who certainly have a lot to say, I'd just like to say a definitive assessment - the SPS won't support this proposal, because because of many shortcomings and despite our best wishes we couldn't find and give a transitional assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18938	The word of the messenger of the people is Rodoljub Sabic; after him is the messenger of the people, Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18939	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not spend too much of your time for at least two reasons. First, which I didn't normally think I was talking for long, because I wanted to mark in the shortest lines two things which, in my opinion and the opinion of the Social Democrats, were important in the process of adopting this law, and secondly, because my esteemed colleague, Aca Radosavljevic, spent the main part of the arguments in his afternoon debate concerning what I wanted to talk about, which is why the Social Democrats will in principle support this law. So now you don't have to waste too much of your words. There are at least a few reasons why, in principle, when an opportunity to support a law is assessed, they stand, no doubt. These are the principle ideas that the promoters are launching; they change some of the global relations in the areas of social relations that they need to regulate. It has been said to abolish the death penalty. So, we don't see any reason, not from moral, not from humanistic, and if you want to from a political point of view, since it's one of the essential conditions for entering European integration, that this idea, already started at a federal level, is not consistently realized. Another thing, tightening criminal sanctions in a series of criminal acts. So in a country that has been exposed to a terrible increase in crime for over a decade, there is really no reason to hesitate that the instrumentation available to society to defend itself against crime, sharpen and strengthen. Therefore, there is no dilemma as to the need to tighten sanctions, so much sooner if they are sharpened in the sphere of those crimes that threaten the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, or, if you will, electoral rights, where we have had several scandals that have been unremembered in Europe in the last few decades. Finally, thirdly, in a country where more than a decade of corruption as a cancer eats away the entire tissue of this society, there is every excuse to pay particular attention to criminal acts, as well as instruments to fight corruption. These three ideas are basically what I and my colleagues, the Social Democratic MPs, define that without a reserve they give principled support to this law. However, I must say that, as it often happens, and this time try to make these ideas, with which there is no controversy, in a concrete way, operationalize, to find their normative expression in the text of the law, that these two things cannot be compared in the same way. So, if by our definition they come deserve the highest grade, then an attempt to operate can't be compared to them. We stand at the point that there are serious objections to this attempt to operate. This is especially so when it comes to a chapter relating to the dignity of a person and full of morality. We think that, especially in that area, the unlikely contrast between the idea and its operationalization is very high. So we put in a number of amendments, just starting with that assessment. We don't think we're subjective, because a large number of amendments have been put into debate by other participants. What I was going to ask at this opportunity and ask the promoter for is one serious relationship exactly with the amendments. It would not be good if this relationship were to lag behind and it would not be good if, when voting in particular, even those who in principle unreservedly support this law did not share the same attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18940	The People's Messenger Adam Urosevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18941	The respected presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnicities, the MPs of the Soviet Union are not satisfied with the criminal provisions sanctioning individual crimes in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Serbia, believing that a special minimum and maximum sentence of prison should be increased, and this will show a number of amendments to individual members. With full understanding and support for tightening the fines for individual crimes, besides the repressive one, should have a preventive character. We do not understand why criminal acts against property are left behind in this proposal, such as fraud, petty theft, theft, heavy theft, seizure of a motor vehicle, robbery and robbery, evasion, damage to other people's things, etc. In these parts, only an increase in nominal amounts is proposed, i.e. heights of damage, not an increase in the level of punishment, and these acts fall within a group of criminal acts that represent one of the generators of legal and property uncertainty of citizens. Because of the risk of being misunderstood and indignant by respected ladies, I ask the most beautiful of us dear beings to listen carefully, because I will pay special attention to one of the crimes in the head that treats crimes against the dignity of personality and morals. It's about the crime scene of rape. Serbia's now applicable Criminal Law sanctions one who forces a woman's promise she does not live with in the marriage community. The proposed changes delete the words "who doesn't live in a marriage community", which means that this work can also be done by a husband over a woman with whom he is married and by a marriage community. Marriage is a legally arranged community of life for a woman and a man, and it only ends in one of the ways provided for by law, so that marriage can happen without marriage anymore. In that case, according to the current Criminal Law, a husband may commit a rape and answer to a court of law. The proposed change can in practice lead to the abuse of such a formalized crime, as a woman may, for several reasons, report her husband for rape, publicly drive him to prison, and still get a divorce case. Not to mention the practice of flimsy evidence to determine the existence of this crime. I mean the threat, the use of stunning means and so on. And after the marriage rape report, there's a bad chance that marriage will survive. This remark mainly refers to practical application in the prosecutions and courts, so most kindly I ask that you understand it as such. Realising the gravity and consequences that this work leaves on the psyche of the execution facility, the SSJ has proposed an increase in the legal minimum of prison sentences, namely: for article 1 of Article 103, from one to three years; for item 2 from three to five years; and for Article 3, for this capital offense with a fatal consequence, to a sentence of at least 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18942	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18943	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I would try to say a word in the principle of this proposal, by pointing out at the very beginning that the discussions of the DSS representatives we have heard so far, Mr Mamula and Mr Budishin from the point of view of expertise were remarkable, very clear and pointed to all the failures of the legislator. I would ask Mr. Risticevic to respect the order. You'll hear, Mr. Batic. So, these professional discussions of Mr. Mamula and Mr. Budishin, I again underline, as Mr. Minister contests the expertise in this, have very clearly marked all the failures of the bill. The DSS parliamentary group has acted in good faith and in good intentions, in particular in the adoption of this law on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Law, seeking to lead to a state of application, i.e. the state in which the law will be able to function in practice. Therefore, in addition to those remarks made by the gentlemen mentioned earlier, from a professional point of view, which is particularly relevant to the assessment of whether at this moment it is necessary to pass such a law; because the solution to the issue of the Federation, as well as the adoption of a new constitution in Serbia on the road, will be very quickly reached; since they have pointed out some illogicalness, the constitutionality of this proposal with the Federal Constitution, and what is said very precisely in the arguments in addition to the amendments given by the DSS parliamentary group; I would like to try not to repeat the words that previous DSS speakers have said, in spite of the persistent effort to prevent me from doing so, I would therefore like to say what I want; so I would try to look at some problems of the bill proposal, and not to repeat the words that have been spoken by the DSSSS. Here today, though not from the government and not from the minister, I have heard one claim they always make when they pass every law, which is the claim of those MPs who fully and uncuttly support this bill, because it is reform law. What is the principle of reform law? I ask the question: is it because the reform government has submitted the bill; and as it is reforming in this bill, when there is no concept of criminal policy at all, where for certain crimes there have been significantly increased sentences two and three times, while for other crimes there is no increase in penalties, where penalties are increased for those acts that have not been frequented, perhaps for years there has been no such act in court practice. On the other hand, we will also come to this, Mr Batic, for crimes that have been very common and which happen daily in Serbia, there is no provision for an increase in penalties. I personally advocate the abolition of the death penalty. All right, they say it's a reform suspension of the death penalty, and I say it's not. The death penalty was lifted by federal law. In case this law is not passed, it automatically means that the federal law is applied, that the death penalty cannot be pronounced. So it's reformal and I don't know to what extent it's socially justified at this point in Serbia. Regardless of my claim to abolish the death penalty, we have no analysis of either the ministry, nor the minister, or the government -- the advantage of abolishing the death penalty or the flaw. We simply know what we need to know, and that is what we are told: the request is Europe, it is abolished because of its accession to the Council of Europe. Europe has abolished the death sentences, and even in 1985 or 1986, it is unlikely that Mr Batic will take my word for it, France has abolished the death penalty, but they are now in criminal law theory and in practice an extremely large discussion of whether the death penalty should be returned and whether it was the right move. There's one solution I'd just like to remind myself of, and that's a solution in Russia, where the death penalty is suspended, not suspended. In order not to waste time on a motion to abolish the death penalty, I will try to point to the following problems, or the next indifference of this bill. In addition to what I said, that only certain criminal offences are intended to increase the sentence, there is an obvious symmetricity of the penalties envisaged, and this is visible from the amendment and we will explain it in detail by each amendment. I repeat, it has been given in the light of the amendments and this has been given to all the MPs. You know what some would say about it: time is running out, but we'll see who it's for. There is one tendency here, which I have pointed out, that any bill is simply baptized in reform and then it is to be or not to be. If that doesn't work, if the DSS points to all the illogicalities, all the bad solutions, then the DSS is against reform. That's not true. The DSS is now seeking to implement reforms, precisely those reforms we promised voters and for which we signed a contract with citizens. Sir, you'll get your time. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can challenge a trader's right to praise his goods indefinitely. It's not even harmful. It's up to the buyer to decide. Every citizen has the right to object to the Ministry of Justice and the Government's seriousness by accessing changes to criminal law, to the service of banal pseudo-judicial and almost pamphletic bill proposals, behind which a new possibility of creating chaos in society and justice is hidden. No one reasonable also doubts that it is easier to work at press conferences, through various statements and a tour of Serbia, than to write a good law. The basic word to describe the bill that is before us is that this law is bad, that it can be fixed, only in general and not completely, by adopting amendments given by the DSS Parliament Club. I see you, ma'am, you know. Pretentious text, with epithets of reform, innovative, envious length, should point to the seriousness and creativity of work, as well as their attachment to democratic changes in Yugoslavia and Serbia. Indeed, with which legal and political arguments the legislator, i.e. the government, is seeking to work reformally, I will answer that question immediately, said one MP who performed the second or third, who fully supported the law. I would also point out that the bill seeks evenly to deploy new crimes and to increase the penalties evenly in all areas of criminal and legal protection. However, it particularly insists on sound and pompous topics: human rights and freedoms, election rights, high treason, criminal acts of corruption and so on. The choice of topics that sound good hides the total destruction of the criminal justice system, human rights and freedoms. The penalty for murder, this is the answer to the first question, the penalty for serious physical injury, the penalty for fighting, the penalty for waving a gun in a fight, the punishment for robbery, the theft, the penalty for heavy theft, the heavy robbery, the heavy theft, the fraud, the seduction of a car -- they don't increase. Such crimes often happen in this country to Serbia. It also does not increase penalties for unwitting work in business, for the cause of bankruptcy, for the cause of false bankruptcy, for the damage of creditors, for the abuse of authority in the economy, for the unfounded acquisition and use of credit, for the conclusion of a harmful contract, for the damage of residential buildings and rooms, etc. So, for most of the crimes, which are most happening at this time in Serbia, there was no question at all whether there should be an increase in sentences or not; and they do not increase. Penalties are increased by crimes that have occurred very rarely and which will occur in a small part compared to the total number of criminal offences, i.e. to be committed. On the other hand, it should be noted that it may be reformed out of what a special chapter on corruption crimes is envisioned. In addition to the legal observation that the already existing criminal offences are covered, I would have to point out that corruption is not eradicated in principle, is not a fundamental problem in this respect, not by predicting criminal acts, but by effective prosecution and swift punishment of perpetrators. At present, there is no effective prosecution, no swift work of the court, and no swift punishment of the individual, so that threatened and scheduled penalties do not produce practical effects in criminal policy. I would point only to another circumstance: in Serbia, I think, since 1992, no death penalty has been committed, and that was not possible, given the disagreement between federal and republican criminal law. But it is much better to pay attention to something else: hundreds of people have been killed in Serbia for the past 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18944	I thank the People's MP. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vucurovic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic said, we don't need any criminal law, we don't need the one we have so far, nor the one you're offering right now, because they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting bullets all over the side, they're pouring blood in the streams, the victims are fighting with their souls... (President: Mr. Vukurovic, please return to the agenda topic. )......................................................................................................... The surgeons are climbing from the navels to save lives, and the police are watching it with their hands cut. The courts are uninterestingly silent, Chad ordered, Chad's word is stronger than the law. (President: Mr. Vukurovic... ) Thus, in early 2000, the great cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic... (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. )......................................................................................................... and famous member of the Surina mafia, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass, fired...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18946	Mr. Vuchurovic, since you already have two warnings, on the basis of Article 104, I take your word and ask you to get off the phone. The People's Messenger Arsen the Qur'an has a word. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18947	You can do it for a while, Mrs. Micic, but it won't last for long either. But you are obliged, before we play your end and end of the DOS government, to tell us by which member of the Rules of Procedure you gave the measure of taking the words of the Serbian Radical Party MP Bozidar Vukurovic? You should tell us why you warned him, what Bozidar Vucurovic said without having discussed this point of the agenda, the discussions on changes and additions to the law on criminal proceedings. Murders, rapes, ruining people's lives, connection to an organized mob that keeps everything under its control, it's all a set of debates, and they're all members of the Criminal Code. But that's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we don't need the Criminal Law, because you have Cedomir Jovanovic. The entire Serbian public should know that Cedomir Jovanovic, as the only exhibit with such manners and with such a force being carried out here in the National Assembly, is the one who decides which people will be killed, which people will be arrested, which people will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18948	Mrs. Jovanovic, on the basis of Article 104, I take away your word and ask you to remove yourself from the pay phone. Ms. Jovanovic, I have taken the floor from you and the previous speaker on the basis of Article 104, which says, "The measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, which also makes it a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure." Article 103 was in violation of indent 3: - which, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. That question is not on the agenda, and you haven't learned criminal law and criminal law, it's a matter that's being resolved in court and institutions; here you have a bill of law, members of which you're specifically talking about, not examples; and lead an investigation here and accuse people of no matter; therefore, you've received warnings. The People's Messenger Arsen Kurjački has a word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Toma Bushetić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18949	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I've been very fortunate lately to talk about ordinary things after heated discussions, so it's hard to pay attention to that. What can we do? That's right. Well, let's go. Lately in transition societies, dilemmas and debates have arisen whether accepting European values, thus also European rights, is a manifestation of service or is necessary. We are convinced that we should build our own right, on the same general basis for all on which contemporary European law has been built. Therefore, it is not disputed for anyone. All international organisations, especially the Stability Pact, are expecting our country to fight harder against corruption. In my discussion, I'll mostly look back on it. So, surely, it is in our best interests to remove this epithet - the most corrupt countries in Europe, others in the world, and already all the titles we get for it. In the past ten years, unfortunately, in the state there have been such conditions of self-inflictedness and life that it has ever become normal for everyone, and the simplest activity of any official or any bearer of any function, to be paid in one way or another. That's why we came here to have these huge private companies, who were created overnight, extraprofittors, illegal construction of magnificent buildings, illegal shops, and all the things that have followed us all these years. The morale of the people has fallen so much that this system is so-called. Rewards have become everyday and no one is surprised anymore. What is the current situation in the economy? The proposal for a law on public procurement will provide us with one real basis for curbing crime and abuse in the economy, as this process of control and contracting public procurement is tightened and so on. However, the adoption of the privatisation law still opens up some possibility for corporate corruption, where privatisation is carried out or where it is yet to be carried out. So it really is necessary to supplement the Criminal Law with these special provisions on corruption and to tighten responsibility for all this. As far as the judiciary is concerned, in the last year the judiciary has been most mentioned in connection with corruption. In public, such an impression has been created that there is, in fact, no fair holders of judicial functions, no legal procedures. I think it is unfair, however, because no matter how dissatisfied we are with the urgency of the courts and their work, the adoption of the Law on the High Council of Justice has created a condition for establishing some greater responsibility for the holders of functions. It's also Article 19. The law on courts still protects their independence, which is the most important thing in all of this. Therefore, we must not forget the way in which the choice of legal holders is carried out, especially if we compare and see how directors, body officials, health managers, and education are elected, etc. There aren't even close to such mechanisms as are now brought into the judiciary, so we still can't get that close to the judiciary. Especially since we all know that it's not so much a problem with the corruption of legal holders, it's a problem in so-called. The likeness of judges and dependence on any current authority. As far as health care is concerned, there has been a narrowing in the provisions on corruption, the minister has come out, and it would be interesting to hear him, whether this is due to the inability to adopt laws on local self-government or omnibus. Simply, in my opinion, a mistake has been overlooked, so it is said that corruption will be sanctioned in health institutions where the founder of the Republic is. If we have now transferred certain responsibilities to the province and local self-government, we can come into a situation so that some health institutions are not under the authority of this law, because the founders will be local self-government. So, with this proposal, corruption has been dismembered in several areas of social and economic life, in order to point precisely to the focusses of this corruption. It can be said that mainly centers are well marked, but truths and justice are for the sake of the need to say that state functions are also an important source of corruption. It's always been, unfortunately, and now there is, and how at the lowest local level, so is the highest. It is not just the ordinary authorities of the administration that are subject to corruption, but it is what we must say openly, and politicians, or holders of state functions. That's how it was before, and we can't ignore the fact that many government officials have stepped into this great evil of our society. Many socially harmful decisions were imposed, made, many favoured certain private companies and individuals, without knowing the real reason, or could only suspect that someone had used it. We can say that all of this, of course, is already covered by some proposal that it was, but if we have already so widely identified all the places and areas of corruption, then still the public is doing, I think that we should particularly apostrophe once again the focus, and these are politicians and holders of state functions. The Democratic Party of Serbia, supporting changes and additions to the Criminal Law, has proposed in the amendments a stronger punishment for all specific forms of corruption. There can be no mercy, no pardon. We also propose in the amendments the more precise definition and clarification of all these concepts, not to be after different interpretations, as it was unfortunately earlier. So, we will in principle support this law, because it is generally acceptable and more modern to regulate this problem, which is nevertheless sensitive to our society, but we sincerely hope that it will help the competent authorities in charge of this will finally go far more effectively to fight all these types of crime that are governed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18950	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill is legally and technically poorly done, without a clear concept in which direction and how anything will be protected, what social values. Despite some synchronization with federal criminal law, this bill is not sufficiently in line with certain incriminations under federal criminal law. Federal and Republic Criminal Codes are not coherent and consistent with criminal-legal legislation, which indicates the necessity of codification of criminal legislation. Maybe it doesn't make sense what I'm saying, because it's quite clear that the federal government has nothing. Minister Batic, after a year and a half, gave a good statement for the first time -- he cannot be expected to press a button to bomb the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to sincerely help create a common state. But Minister Batic is very late, for two or three years, because we have been saying for many years that these good European Union services have nothing. Strengthening the punishment for individual crimes, with the aim of tightening criminal policy, makes no sense. This is just an illusion, because in 80% of cases punishments are imposed at the border of a specific legal minimum or general minimum, which is only one of the elements that has no relevance to the practice of courts that impose punishment and lead criminal policy until now. A special minimum and maximum, as well as a range of threatened penalties, is almost insignificant in the conditions of criminal policy implemented in practice by courts, means above all in the application of the law. I'll say a few examples. In Article 174, and that is the case now, a sentence of three months to five years has been threatened for the seizure of a vehicle, and the case law rarely records a higher sentence than six months; or, when it comes to tax evasion, a penalty is prescribed from one to 10 years, and I don't know if anyone has been sentenced to more than three years in Serbia. So that's one nonsens. When we talk about new solutions, anti-natural fornication so far has been normally sanctioned from one to 10 years, now it's at least one year, and in reality for the anti-natural fornication sanctions hardly reached half the penalties threatened. The summary of all this is that courts implement criminal policy and the existing criminal frameworks are quite enough to change criminal policy. We think it should be sharper and it's been a treasure so far, but all of this doesn't mean that it was necessary to change the law for the realisation of a stricter criminal policy. It is unwarranted to delete crimes, or to decriminalize crimes such as: unauthorized use and possession of radio stations; or, a crime of non-participation in the elimination of general danger; or, a crime of abuse of faith and church for political purposes under Article 238. We know the sects are growing and are mostly tied to other churches, not to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Unlike this decriminalisation, for no reason is criminal acts of the 21st chapter being incriminating, which speaks of corruption, because we believe that if the criminal offence of receiving bribes from Article 254 is retained and bribes from Article 255, with all forms, then the introduction of new incriminations is excessively and unwarranted. Issuing from the general criminal act of taking bribes of special crimes, for example, corruption in the authorities of the administration, justice, education, health care is unfounded and aims only at political and propaganda effects. In the head of the corruption crimes, criminal acts such as the restriction of freedom of information, the negotiation of the outcome of the competition enters. We don't think these crimes are the place in this criminal law chapter. We think the system is completely wrong. The tightening of the fine covers marginal crimes, except for the crime against dignity of personality and morals, is meant by rapes, which are in negligible numbers in the practice of courts. The majority of procedures will be suspended due to a monetary increase in monetary amounts. Based on the increase in the nominal amount from 2,000 to 8,000, or from 10,000 to 40,000, many procedures will be suspended or qualifications changed to a milder form. Examples work, unwitting work in the economy from 15,000 now goes to 60,000, heavy theft from 70 to 300. All in all, we believe that this law was unnecessary, that these were only cosmetic changes and that for extraordinary sessions we had far more important questions than those that I cited.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18952	The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, and after it is the Messenger of the people Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18953	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia mainly covers everything that includes similar legislation to which we are inclined, which is the legislation of developed Europe, except for two areas in which I want to put emphasis in this debate in principle. One of them could be resolved by the amendment, if all of us were to agree that it was a serious act of criminal responsibility, which is part of environmental pollution, Article 133. The previous member and the amendment of that member, treated by Article 38, is considered to be a criminal offense to the rules on the protection, conservation and promotion of the environment, air pollution, water or land, and has been punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. The part that is missing here, which we will have as a fact when we hopefully pass a single law on the protection of the environment of the Republic of Serbia, is the part that concerns fish fishing on liquid and standing waters. In fact, the fact is that persons fishing for fish on liquid and standing waters with explosives, electricity or chemical resources should be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years, i.e. treating it as a criminal offence. Now it's being treated like a violation. Fishing of all kinds of fish on liquid and standing waters in the case of poaching is an offence which is fined, and is not a crime. I believe that the fact of the spread of poaching is known not only by networks but also by explosives, electricity and chemical means. That's enough reason for these acts to become subject to criminal law. The damage to the environment is that this recklessly destroys a slow renewable resource, because when you intervene in one of these three ways, then, apart from creating for yourself an asset, you take out a large amount of noble species of fish on liquid and standing waters, you destroy the living world in waters that are extremely slow to restore, and we need it as a basic resource of the environment. The future perpetrators should be discouraged by treating this work not as a crime, but as a crime. The other kind of crime, in my opinion, is something that hasn't found its place in this criminal code, and it's about human trafficking. No matter how unusual it may seem or how much of a subject that happens to others, human trafficking is a serious crime. This is happening in the territory of the former SFRY and this is a problem that would have to be treated by criminal law. Whether or not both of these crimes will be in the case of the Criminal Code, it's up to us. There is a possibility that this could already be in these changes and additions, if by adopting previous amendments, as MPs responsible for the environment and for people who are subject to trade, which are usually minors and women, we find ways to bring criminal provisions to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18954	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Petar Petrovic and then by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18955	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is finally before us again the bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which had to be removed from the earlier session until the federal law, or the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was passed. I think it's a good thing that the Republic Criminal Law agrees with federal law, while at least there's a federal state on paper. But I don't think the government has the same access to all the legal projects, because if you remember two months ago, or something less, I pointed out from this pay phone that the proposed law on working with the federal labour law was a big misunderstanding. The resolution minister then said that in this country, I quote his statement, anything possible, so that the republican law does not comply with federal law. It is good that the Republic Criminal Law is in line with federal law, however, what is not good is that it has been moved and that a quick decision has been made to end the death penalty for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, for the murder, for the murder planned, for the heavy robbery with the murders, etc. In the government's explanation of why the death penalty is abolished, in addition to already, to say the phrase we hear, which is - entering Europe, entering the OSCE and so on, it is written: "The abolition of the death penalty is proposed because the right to life is inalienable human rights and no one can deprive it of that right or state". There's a philosophical, sociological question, and a legal question -- whether someone who walks into someone else's house, on someone else's property, has given the right to deprive themselves of the life of the owner of that house, of this apartment, of this property (and, you know, to make a trip, to have someone else's houses, apartments and properties, where entire families are killed, and young children of 2-3 years old), whether such perpetrators deserve a death sentence or deserve 40 years in prison. In the opinion of the Serbian Unity Party, the only appropriate measure, if we want to end the death penalty, would be life imprisonment. To make another parallel, because democracy and democratic principles are constantly being talked about, in the world's most democratic country, at least as they call themselves, in the United States, in their 25 federal states, no death penalty has been lifted today. In the state of Texas, half the death sentences are imposed annually in relation to the execution of death sentences in all the United States. So much when it comes to the death penalty and I think that the next amendments to this law would have to bring back the death penalty for the most severe forms of the execution of criminal acts, for the reason that we have not matured either economically, socially, or socially, or legal conditions for the abolition of this sentence. On the other hand, I think the law should have found places to better protect private property and private property. I'm just going to try to get you into this with one example -- today we have such a regulation that if the owner of the house, apartment or property finds the thief, the robber, the criminal to rob his apartment, the house, etc., he can't force him. It just turns out he needs to say, "Good afternoon, give me a ID to get your information, so I can sue you." Otherwise, if he applies any force, he'll go to jail. I think the Criminal Law had to find some appropriate measures to protect private property more and better. When it comes to new crimes introduced by these amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, I primarily think about acts of corruption, there are several crimes, such as corruption in education, health care, the authorities, in the privatisation process, etc. I believe that it was not necessary to cite the criminal acts of corruption in all these segments of society, but rather to specify only the criminal act of corruption, and in the decision-making process, or the measure-making process, the court would appreciate the social danger of the work, i.e. where it was committed and under what conditions, whether in health, whether in education, etc. Because if we get a little closer to comparing the highest and lowest penalties for the crime of corruption, we'll see that there's not a very specific measure of health, education, the authorities of the administration and I'm not counting any further. And finally, I think that these proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, when it comes to crimes against the dignity of personality and morals, primarily I mean rape, promise and anti-natural fornication over an powerless person or a person who has not turned 14 years old, that those criminal measures must have been far, far more stringent than these amendments of the law. In this regard, the SSK Group has also filed several amendments, which require that the lowest measures, i.e. threatened sentences for the perpetrator of these crimes, increase because we think and statistics show that these crimes in the Republic of Serbia are on the rise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18956	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18957	Dear Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I sincerely hoped that when we held discussions on these proposed amendments and additions, because of their character and due to some objective circumstances concerning the possibility of regulating this matter at a republican level, we would conduct a shorter, more efficient and professional debate. But what is there is, the proposed changes and additions are certainly not such a character that we would be pleased to conclude that it is a comprehensive solution, what would be the codification or adoption of a criminal code. However, for codification, as is less - more known to all of us here, a comprehensive solution needs stability of social relations, especially those relationships that want to be regulated by this codification, that is, this code, and we today practically have a series of open key political issues, including the issues of the framework and the shape of the state in which we live. These are the reasons that are not before us, the criminal code, but the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, and therefore all these arguments that go in favour of criticism in this way are completely unfounded. Of course, the proposed changes and additions are good and should certainly be adopted. It would've been even better if we didn't have to wait for changes on the federal level, changes to federal criminal law, but what's there. The proposed amendments should be adopted, given the state of our criminal legislation, and that's what we've already been talking about here. So, it's an unjustly mild criminal policy. It's a criminal policy that absolutely doesn't fit the moral profile of our society that we've been creating in the last unfortunate 13 years, the overcoming of certain incriminations, the inadequate criminal-legal protection of certain social values, and especially the existence of a death penalty. I must say, I thought there was a general notion here that a death penalty should be abolished, as a civilization's achievement, that the death penalty should simply be abolished. That is, according to counterpart Radosavljevic, the most remarkable mark of this proposal is the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law. The death penalty is the criminal penalty that has always caused, and today it causes many controversy. In their essence, they come down to arguments, for the opposite of death's punishments. In the middle, of course, not only legally, but, philosophically, ethically, as well as the political issue of the right of the state to take a man's life. Of course, I'm not going to repeat all these arguments that the esteemed colleagues have made before me, I'm just going to say what's less - more known to everyone, that the death penalty is that criminal penalty that absolutely stands out, is detached from the criminal sanctions system and does not meet at all the purpose that they have to fulfil the criminal sanctions, which refers to general, special prevention, so in the end, the resociation of the persons who are convicted of that sentence. In particular, a very important question, which has always been in some way plagued by those who make a decision on the death penalty, is that this punishment is absolutely inaccessible. Today, of course, we approach this issue primarily as politicians. Criminal legislation is to a good extent a mirror of the state of a single society. In defining our political views, we come from reality, from our environment, and our environment tells us that we are one of the few states in Europe that has maintained the death penalty. With today's amendments to the Criminal Law, we are getting closer to those communities that are very exemplary to us and that we strive to follow. With these changes, we join the general tendency that prevailed in the modern world, that the arguments against the death penalty were unequivocally overcome. But what is also very true is that, in practice, the criminal situation and the movement of crime after the abolition of the death penalty, especially the practice of sentenceing 40 years in prison, but it is already a matter that is not the subject of this criminal law. In addition to this most important change, this proposal includes other changes that aim to solve the accumulated problems, which burden our criminal legislation. The tightening of penalties for certain crimes is entirely justified, given how the structure of crime has been in recent years and the intensity. The introduction of new incriminations and erasure of individuals from the existing law makes Criminal Law more life-threatening and realistic. The truth is that life is always more inventive than the legislator is not an excuse for a three-way, inefficient and unprofessional legislator. And since we're not like that, we're dealing with these changes and supplements today. The institution of mild punishment is, in my opinion, immediately after the death penalty or almost equally important newspapers in this proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, provided for in Articles 3 and 79, and this is an excellent solution. I hope that it will give positive effects in order to quickly detect and prosecute those crimes, but its actual reach will depend on practice. Changes in our country in all areas, even in this very delicate one, are not enough just to change the law. A change of consciousness and way of thinking is needed, especially those who have the privilege and the privilege of judging others in the name of the people. In this light, we should also consider applying the laws we recently passed, which relate to the area of the judiciary, in particular the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Law on the High Council of Justice. And finally, of course, I will vote for the proposed changes and additions, they are another step in the path of uncontested changes and together with the laws we have adopted, as well as those on the agenda, create conditions for a fairer, decriminal and modern society in developed Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18958	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18959	Petar Panic is pierced like a sieve. Four bullets blew up Panic's lungs, two bullets pierced his liver, crushed his intestines, destroyed his kidneys and spleen. (President: I ask the People's MP to return to the topic. This is a serious crime, so I'm explaining it. One bullet hit him in the thigh and one in the arm. The former international dictatorial regime issued an APB for Ljubomir Jovanovic, called Glassna, the cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic, for attempted murder. Cousin Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic Staklin, fled abroad. When 5 October democracy won Serbia, DOS...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18960	People's MP, the tactics of your MP group that this pay phone is being misused in your case right now have an end. I take your word for it, after two warnings. The word is from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the People's MP Slobodan Janjic was taken away from the word without insulting the dignity of the National Assembly or departing from the agenda. In the same or similar case, when you led the National Assembly session, about SRS President Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj Cedomir Jovanovic said the following words: "Mr. Seselj, you are nervous about The Hague tribunal, because of the war crimes you have organised and committed". That is why you did not take away his word, nor did you warn him. Can a prominent Serbian patriot and university professor compare with what is sitting here? I'm asking for this injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18962	Since I owe you an explanation, it's the following content. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic had the right to reply and, at the moment he spoke his own replica, for the first time since he spoke, he is reminded that there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure that he cannot express views concerning the private life of the other person, their moods and everything else treated by members 100, 101, 102 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Slobodan Janjic has two warnings, given by the same violations when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I felt that the MP, as an MP of experience and craft, was aware of the penalties he had received and that he would respect the contents of the agenda point, talking about it, which he did not do. As a necessary consequence, the measure of giving the warning is, that is, taking away the words after the second warning. It was all done with the discretionary right of the chairman, and in accordance with the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 100, 101 and 103. Are you satisfied? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, is seeking a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the event of the confiscation of the words to MP Slobodan Janjic. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 37, against 84, the abstentions were not voted 55, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament of the People's Parliament of Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The word has a folk MP Milos Nesovic, followed by a folk MP, Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18963	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia is for the second time in debate in this assembly. I'd have a few objections to a few members. It is known to me that it is a condition for entering the Council of Europe to abolish the death penalty. I also know that a federal criminal law has been passed, where the death penalty has been abolished. However, there is something I must say about the death penalty. The death penalty has so far been prescribed alternatively with another punishment, for the most serious crimes. It was mostly prescribed alternatively with a prison sentence of five to ten years. It is said only for the most difficult forms of serious crimes, and very rarely, which can be concluded from some statistical reports. Opinions are divided today - whether the death penalty should be maintained or abolished. Personally, I'm not a supporter to end the death penalty. My point of view is that the opportunities and conditions that exist in our environment today, in this present time, do not allow the abolition of the death penalty. I think that the current conditions in our country are such that certain crimes should be pronounced capital punishment, at the cost of not being executed; to be threatened with the death penalty, but alternatively with the prison sentence and that, I mean, for more than 40 years. This, especially when it comes to a group of crimes against life and body, means a crime of murder, then a group of crimes against property, a felony of robbery and robbery. I continue to believe that the death penalty prevents the potential perpetrators of serious crimes, and for these reasons the same should, in my opinion, be kept. This conclusion follows from a criminal policy analysis back in the 1990s. I disagree with those who point out that it is contrary to justice and justice. How else to satisfy justice if a dangerous criminal kills the whole family, which happens we're witnessing in the present time. We've had two cases in the King, and I think you're familiar with them. Moreover, the death penalty will be lifted in itself if individuals stop committing serious crimes. Therefore, I am against abolishing the death penalty for the most serious crimes, but I suggest that it continue to be prescribed alternatively with the prison sentence. The second objection I wish to make concerns the penalties for certain crimes in which there is a large range between the lower and the upper borders. It is not rare to prescribe prison sentences from one to ten years in the amendments, which, when determining the penalty, will best achieve the purpose of punishment, give room for unequal practice. This will make it possible for the same work in the field of different courts to be punished differently, although I know that courts have their own practice, to agree and take common positions very often. My next remark is on amendments to Article 98 of the current Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it should be changed to this degree. I believe it is necessary to protect against verbal delinquents from the representatives of the highest state authorities. It's about people who perform high-ranking functions in the country and such personalities have to enjoy this kind of protection. This claim is also appropriate at the moment when there is a multi-party system, and we are witnessing daily inappropriate accusations that are not based on individuals in certain high-profile functions. Also, I suggest that the current article 232. Criminal law, which refers to gambling. This thing with the reason that the cube is pretty widespread with us, so in my opinion, this work is socially dangerous, because it shows the social disadvantage of greater importance. We also have one set of amendments to the law, which refers to acts against corruption. I think we've got that, and it seems to me, it can solve art. 254 and 255. - receiving and giving bribes. If we think a little differently, then it doesn't matter if that corruption is done in health care, education, state administration, etc., so I'm not as sure as I can suggest here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18964	The word is a folk letter from Olga Kircanski, followed by a folk MP, Milos Lukic. I'm sorry, MP Milos Lukic is not here, then after the MP, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18965	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with impatience, as well as a large part of the public, and especially the woman, we expected that the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law should be found on the agenda of the Assembly. I see these proposed changes and additions as the first step in the direction we sought - to increase security, especially in the workplace and in the family. The overly mild penalties or the lack of sanctions so far, in the majority of the civilised world, have given the impression that our society is either looking kindly or even approving this kind of behavior. Even from this pay phone, which I regret to say, could have heard that coercion in a sexual act is one of the good ways to correct bad birth in our country. I wonder if that's the way they are when it comes to their sisters or their daughters. Also, when it comes to rape in the marriage community as a criminal offense, comments and questions of the type were heard, why I got married or what my wife serves me for. We consider the proposed amendments and additions of the Criminal Code to the first good step forward, and in particular the amendments of the member of Criminal Law No 103, where the shameful words that result in the rape of a person living in a marriage community are not considered a criminal offence. In that sense, I hope that the Government will support our amendments, which a group of MPs together with me, and headed by our distinguished Vice-President of the Parliament, Rodoljub Sabic, will submit, where such and similar failures in the Criminal Law would be corrected to the end. I believe that this law should be supported in principle and with these additions that we have proposed to the amendments, that this would be a good move forward towards bringing our criminal law closer to world trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18966	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the word, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here some of our political opponents said this bill was withdrawn in the autumn because of some lack of procedure. Others once again said that the Federal Assembly was more effective and faster than the Republic Government, and I must say that neither of them were right. The most accurate thing is that this law was withdrawn just to wait for the federal government and the federal assembly to bring basic changes and additions to the law that is here today on the agenda. We will certainly support this bill and vote for it in principle. We will also vote in favour of any amendments the government accepts and we will vote in favour of the law in general. This law clearly wiped out some fines, some sanctions that were meaningless and which were a feature of ex-ideologies, so let's say the price control fines and the possession of a radio station are lifted. It was a danger for the former regime, and for us it's not a danger, so those penalties are lifted. In the second part of the law, penalties have been reduced, and death penalty has been abolished in accordance with European legislation. Whether or not we as a society are mature enough to end the death penalty remains to be seen. However, we must take care of European tendencies. Some crimes have been more severed, and this is seen as a crime of corruption. Some new penalties have also been introduced, which are slightly better protected by national minorities, minors and female members. I must say that there are no penalties here, there are not all the penalties earned by the youngest doctor, defender of the sacred Serbian country, and he is not covered enough by this law. It's obvious from today's debate. This defender of the sacred Serbian country, and everything he defended, in fact, he buried, didn't chase even at the casinos, and he was telling us here that we were DOS-mania. It's not covered by this bill. That's too bad. We're DOS mania, and he's wearing a Serb assault saber on a gift to Saddam Hussein. He can take Saddam Hussein...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18968	I ask the MP to stick to the subject, and these are amendments and additions to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18969	I'm sticking to the subject because I think it's high treason to give the Serbian war saber to Saddam Hussein. That's how I keep my agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18970	It's a matter of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18971	He could have given Saddam Hussein his weapon, and his weapon was a rusty spoon. Obviously, there are two standards, and we are here as DOS are accused of killing all those who were killed during the reign of the former government. The one who accused us of killing all those people was the vice president of the government. In this assembly, he said, when we asked for a minute of silence for Curuvia: what a minute of silence, Curuvija was a criminal, convicted as a criminal, killed as a criminal, what I have, says to question who killed Curuvija! Such a man attributes all these murders to us. It's a shame there's no crime of attributing it to fit, he'd say that we maltenes killed Jesus Christ, that we killed Kennedy, that he could have attributed it to us, Martin Luther King, the second Kennedy, could've attributed us to his beloved friend Tito's leg. He's right, there's no court, if there was a court he'd answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18972	I ask the MP to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to treat other MPs with respect. The basis for the replica, I would ask you to quote, since I listened carefully and warned the MP, what would be the basis for the replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: I can't believe you didn't follow the debate. It was the president of the Serbian Radical Party. No one is mentioned by name or party. What is the basis for your replica, MP. You are seeking the right to a replica, and it is your obligation to tell me what is the basis for the replica, because there is no reference to the name or last name of any member of the SRS and there is no mention of the SRS. So, what's the basis for the replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: Mrs. Comic, mentioned sabre... ) So, recognition based on a saber gift to Saddam Hussein by Vojislav Seselj. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18973	I recognized Dr. Vojislav Seselj based on saber, and how else could I recognize the president of the SRS? Surely by betrayal, I couldn't recognize him. But, of course, it's nice for you, it entertains you, Marijan Risticevic, draws attention to you with much more serious things, and you, Mrs. Komic, try not to notice what he's saying, try not to notice what he's saying, try to say everything he wants to say, to satisfy yourself with some mild rebuke, and what Serbian radicals are trying to say for this payphone, after every other word, is punished by a warning, which leads to the taking of words. Now, of course, as representative of the SRS, I will never accuse anyone of anything unless there's evidence. I was the only one here who accused Marijana Risticevic of robbing the peasants, and I submitted evidence of the claim I made. Marijane Risticevic, ever since DOS came to power, you've been harassing Western Banata, Southern Banata, Sremo, everything that can be robbed in Vojvodina, you and your president have entered this business and robbed. The peasants are left to file criminal charges against you, and now we will see how they will react to the Serbian judiciary's obvious evidence that you used your authority to rob people, to put them in a position of false promises and fraud to pick up the crops for which they were plowing for you, sowing, finishing their jobs, and when they came to pay for them, Marijan Risticevic took them off. That's why you, Marijan Risticevic, wear a new suit every day in this congregation, and it can't make you a new man. You're the same Marian Risticevic who was a traitor while we were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18974	The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, after which, MP Dr Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18975	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when democracy won Serbia and the DOS on 5 October, Cedomir Jovanovic became an important state factor and a warrant against his cousin Ljubomir Jovanovic-Glasklia was withdrawn, and he freely returned to Serbia. No one of Chad's cousins was arrested. No court is in a position... (President: I ask the MP to stick to the subject of the agenda - changes and additions to the Criminal Law. )......................................................................................................... That of Ceda's cousin, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass, who was tried for attempted murder...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18976	I warn you that it is the tactics of your MP group that the speaker after the speaker insults the MP, anyone in the assembly, is inadmissible and offends the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18977	... and severe, for life and how dangerous physical injuries. (The Chairman and Dragoljub Stamenkovic speak in the same voice). And to remind you, Ljubomir Jovanovic is the glass man who shot and badly wounded Peter Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18978	Mr. Stamenkovic, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18979	It's not a joke in a man to fire eight bullets, but in Serbia it's better to judge the surgeon who took out the bullets...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18980	Mr. Stamenkovic, the strategy of your parliamentary group by speaking these words at the pay phone shows that you are not aware that what you are doing is hate speech, it is unacceptable in this people's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18981	... And Peter Panic saved his life, rather than judge his cousin, Chedomir...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18982	You have a second warning and a taken word. I thank the People's MP. I'm asking the MP to return to the MP's bench. National MP Milorad Mircic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, authorized representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18983	Madam Chairman, it is no longer necessary to remind you which member of the Rules of Procedure you violate when you take away the word from the MPs of the SRS. Article 103 which is clearly defined in this Rules of Procedure by which you can take away the word, give notice, you do not respect it at any moment. If you had respected that a moment ago, using this Rules of Procedure, you would have taken away the word of the MP of the DOS who insulted here, demeaning members of the Muslim religion. The fact that Marijan Risticevic is transferring the story to Saddam Hussein, as an enemy of America, that story doesn't drink water. Tell the speaker that you have no tolerance for members of another nationality or religion. That's clear. What you're doing is two-faced. You don't even show tolerance here when it comes to the use of cakes in a restaurant, so you're against baklava, here, Stanko Kovacevic is against baklava, he wants creams and champagne. This is a serious story. This is the story of the Criminal Law, and what worries is this, it's about a man sitting here in these benches; not one moment he found fit all the allegations of Serbian radicals to go out for this pay phone, to try to defend himself, to say - not true, to touch Jovanovic-Glass is not my cousin, they didn't give me a horse, Philip Cepter didn't reward me. No, you always find it appropriate to defend him. What's that? A party assignment? Even when you come out, Mrs. Comic, it seems to me that your character is speaking to Zoran Djindjic. You even have the same moves... (President: I thank you. ) the same sentences, only it bothers those who watch, bother, you rap a lot like your president, so the titres of pictures and they can't look at you, they don't have patience. What we Serbian radicals want to say is just an example of where this law, you say, is improving this area should react. Instead of Mr. Batic, go out for this pay phone and tell you what you think of Marijan Risticevic. What you told me in the hallway just repeat after the pay phone, that's enough. The strangest thing is that we want to supplement this proposal to amend the Criminal Law. That's what happened, gentlemen, what you've been campaigning on and how you've earned the trust of the citizens of Serbia. You said you'd solve a lot of murders, you said you'd find out who committed the murder at the Ibari Master's Office, you said you'd find out who killed Ivan Stambolic. You'd say you'd find out who shot Budva. The greatest cynicism is precisely what the current chairman, when he exposes Dr Vojislav Seselj to everything that has been happening to the Ibar highway, says that these are insinuations and that this is what the Ministry of the Interior needs. You have a report from the Survey Committee of this assembly, where clear clues indicate who committed the murder. He committed the Legion, and behind it is Zoran Djindjic, you can put it on the agenda... (The chairman turned off the microphone for the pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18984	I am obliged to explain first to the People's Parliament: either you will respect this people's assembly or we will show that we are not able to participate in the tactics of a group of MPs; and we are capable. So, the explanation for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs not to get out of the bench because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, for your information, completely because that's what I'm obliged to do, the shampoos come from the same place as the baklava, so it's different just as different as everything you're looking for for for yourself, and you don't allow others. A word that was taken away after two warnings to MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic was taken away by inadmissible behaviour in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is your right to try to create an atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by speaking hate, by showing intolerance, by insulting expressions, by violating the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty not to let that happen. Every MP who had lost sight of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was reminded of a provision that must be respected and everything that will happen in this congregation in the future depends solely on you, on your will to obey the rules of congregation work and dignity of this congregation. Are you satisfied with the answer or not? All the fear you have is inexplicable. You are the same here as all the other MPs. Do you want to vote for the injury? National MP Milorad Mircic is asking for the National Assembly to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 39, against 83, abstention one, did not vote 59, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. National emissary Marijan Rističević, a replica to the exhibition of Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18985	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, my colleague Mircic mentioned me on two occasions. He even transferred some opinions from the hallway. I will not assess him at all, I will ask my colleague, Micovic, for his professional findings on such colleagues, who accuse us of everything and everything all day and who behave as they behave. I wouldn't answer that, but I'm here accused of having committed some kind of discrimination against national minorities. As far as I remember, and the stenogram says to establish this, I even commended the law to prevent discrimination against national minorities, or to protect them. If I mentioned Iraq, I didn't offer George Bush Senior as a volunteer to go and kill, how they write it, those Iraqi bastards. This was done by members of each other's party. I didn't do it. If I mentioned another Tito, they don't have to be so offended. I know that the youngest doctor asked for a reward leave to attend the funeral of his beloved friend Tito, got and attended, was close and was so upset that without another Tito, the army leader had to calm him down, and the diplomatic court was seriously concerned about his mental health. If that's my fault, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18986	National MP Milorad Mircic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18987	I'm not going out because of Marijan Risticevic. Every village in Vojvodina has one of these. Shento serves to cheer up the village. I'm going out for you, Mrs. Comic. You just gave a nice opening lecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18988	People's MP, you didn't ask me for a replica, you asked for a replica of the presentation of Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18989	I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just to remind you. I went out because you just had an exhibition that I hadn't followed in the first 10 minutes at all, but I thought I was advertising a Rules of Procedure that says in Rule 93: "The President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency of one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. "It seemed to me earlier that you wanted to participate in the debate, because it was a lengthy process, as you know how to hold it. When Marijan Risticevic from this pay phone now insulted again, you did not find it appropriate to warn him, but you let him go. I guess at that point, with a lot of respect for my fellow citizen, you've been thinking about this part of the Criminal Law regarding the murder of fish. As people are killed in the streets, in Belgrade's asphalt, no one is responsible for that, you're probably thinking about fishing. It's not bad. It is better and more mature thinking than the maturity of Marijan Risticevic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18990	The MP has the right to qualify for the explanation of the National Assembly's chairmanship as a tirad or as a part of the debate, but the chairman of the National Assembly is obliged to not do so to the MP, who pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Unless it is only the case that the People's Messenger does not go out for the speaker's injury of the Rules of Procedure, but rather the abuse of the pay phone, which is also the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want to vote again? National MP Milorad Mircic wishes to vote once again on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the proceedings of the chairperson have injured the Rules of Procedure. For 19, against 84, the abstentions, were not voted 59, a total of 162. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, during the whole day's debate, we have heard everything and everything, all sorts of abuses, labels, insults, slanders, threats, and at least there have been stories about the law on the agenda, about the bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. As Minister of Justice, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am pleased that I have not heard a single particularly important and significant, valid remark on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, but I have heard a few details. One is that the adoption of this law should have been delayed until the adoption of a new constitution, and this is often mentioned by the MPs of a parliamentary group, and that is why it would be best to make a moratorium for the work of the National Assembly, to sit and wait for the adoption of a new constitution, not to pass a single law. And when a new constitution is brought, we will see when that party decides. It has been said that the provision of Article 3(3) is Article 3. The bill, which provides for the possibility of lesser punishment for accomplices, is anti-constitutional. The claim that she is in collegiate with the provision of Articles 7, 35 and 41. The criminal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I must say, is simply not true. The criminal law of the SRJ provides only frameworks for the mitigation of certain criminal sanctions, but even in specific parts contained in federal criminal law, such as the organisation of a group for the execution of acts of war crimes or genocide or for the incentive to carry out these crimes, contained provisions that allow them to move beyond those framework provisions provided for in the general provisions of federal criminal law. Besides, they're so-called. penitentiary crimes or so-called crimes. Repentant orders. Comparative European practice of modern criminal laws is absolutely going towards the affirmation of such criminal and legal provisions. The story of the death penalty and the need to abolish or prevent the death penalty, of course, dates for years, if you will for decades, not only in Serbia but also in many criminal laws. It was not only the imperative requirement of the Council of Europe, the European Union or other European integration that this law be passed, but the need to bring the Republic law into line with federal Criminal Law. The federal Criminal Law in its general section determines the type and the level of criminal sanctions. To correct another incorrect finding. It's not a law that's been withdrawn from the procedure in its time because it was flawed, that he missed this or that. In the previous bill of law, we tried, since the federal administration did not do so until that moment, to find a way to indirectly abolish the death penalty in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. At that moment in federal criminal law, there was a death penalty, and as the maximum time penalty there was a prison sentence of 20 years. When you compare that bill, which was passed two months earlier to the Republic of Parliament, it has a maximum prison sentence of 20 years at that time. Meanwhile, in the interregnum, the federal government finally came to the sense, suggested in the general section of the Criminal Law the SRJ erasure, i.e. the abolition of the death penalty and the maximum time sentence of 40 years in prison. In order not to be collated with regard to the maximum time limit, we just for that reason withdrew the Criminal Law, aligned it with that maximum duration of 40 years, and that's why we lost a few months. Nothing else. Besides, I have to say, it's simply the fluid of European civilization. Perhaps intimately many of us, given the degree of criminalisation of society, for the extremely serious crimes that have been committed in this country lately, and are not to end the death penalty, but, I repeat, it is the fluidity of European civilization. One more thing, we've had one twofold on the death penalty so far. The federal Penal Code, before these changes, when he deleted the death penalty, envisioned the death penalty in the general part. In a special section of federal criminal law, where certain crimes were sanctioned, extremely severe, such as the crime of genocide, there was no death penalty. This was the reason why no death sentence has been committed in Serbia over the past ten years, and there are 25 judicial convictions that some people are sentenced to death. So, this twofold, this conflict of republican and federal law, influenced the fact that, despite the existence of strong judgments, no death sentences were simply carried out. Finally, there were also stories about the symmetricity of certain provisions. They're tightening up somewhere, and there are criminal sanctions for certain crimes. There's no illogicality here. Simply, practice, time, events, degree of crime, especially strengthening criminal activities in certain spheres, normally affecting an increase in the number of severe criminal sanctions for one number of crimes, and on the other hand total marginalisation, reducing the social danger for other crimes prompts a reduction in the degree of criminal sanctions for these crimes. I already told you we've heard a lot of stories. There are some laws on reform, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Privatisation. Unfortunately, there were few concrete proposals or objections to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. I would also say that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be pleased to accept all amendments that go towards improving the text and quality of the law. Our goal is to make this law as good as possible. We don't have that feeling that we have to be hard-core behind every provision of that law. This is, after all, the practice and manner of the Ministry of Justice, and this could be seen during the debate on some other legal projects. I'd like to say a few more details about the corruption crime scene. It's something that's a social phenomenon; something that's the liquid of the time we've lived in; something that's the result of a system of disturbed values. Therefore, it is true that corruption cannot be eradicated by amendments to the Criminal Code, or by tightening certain penalties for criminal acts, or sanctions, or even by introducing certain special, new crimes. But the fact is, we all have to make a huge effort to eradicate that monster called corruption. In 1994, the Council of Europe defined corruption as the behaviour of persons who, in their official or private position, abuse their duties by earning illegal income or the gain of any kind. There were various types of corruption, divided into active and passive, to street, to contract, to corruption in public services, to so-called political corruption, judicial and economic corruption. The international community has brought a number of acts in the fight against corruption. It was adopted even at the 101st session of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe Council of Europe Resolution 24, which contains 20 instructions for combating corruption. It's called the Anti-Corruption Bible. So we try to use this whole spectrum of funds in the fight against corruption and really deal with this evil called corruption. This also led us to propose, in the context of amendments to the existing Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, a number of new crimes, which know all contemporary European legislation and, among other things, to harmonise our criminal legislation with the criminal legislation of modern European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-25-0.u18992	I am informing the MPs present that we are 111 and 91, and that the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held at 18.15 hours. I would like to thank the MPs present. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
