ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, the assumption is, they choose the people they trust most, the least people, the good hosts, and it is important, and informed people, people who know the truth about everything that is happening in their country and everything that has happened to their country and their country. Article 81 provides that, as a rule, at the beginning of the session, the Assembly should determine the time of its work. Just an hour and a half earlier, at 9:00 p.m., a transfer from the trial to SPS President Slobodan Milosevic began. As a rubber in the student book of champions, a false story about genocide, a film that was shown, and what he said, is needed to hear every citizen of the country, because it is a Bucharest for patriotism and for a relationship to his people and to his country. We're looking for that, we Socialists, that this session, because you sitting in these halls, you know the truth about what's been going on, who's been manipulating this space and how the country has been defending itself, that the session starts at 3:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18156	Mr. Ivkovic, as you know, the National Assembly has made a decision in accordance with Article 81, and we cannot solve it twice for the same thing. I respected MP Tomislav Nikolic's request that the Assembly decide immediately, yesterday, during the session, and we have decided to continue the work regularly today. So we can't decide the same thing twice. If you're not happy, let me put this to a vote. We can't compromise. I am putting to vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Branislav Ivkovic. Please state by voting. For 27, against 106, the abstentions were not voted eight out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 81, has not been violated. (SPS emissaries leaving the O.R. ) We move on to discussion and decision-making in the details of the amendments. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric to article 105. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For six, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, of 124 MPs, which means we do not have a quorum. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. Fortification of the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We will repeat the vote on the amendment to article 105 submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. Please state by voting. For seven, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric to Article 106. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For it was not, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 106th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still think you should have postponed the beginning of today's session because there are arguments that may be useful to you. I may unfairly accuse you of not being interested in whether Serbia will be blamed or not. As for the amendment itself to Article 106, I think the promoter should have accepted this amendment because he predicted something that was impossible to achieve. I'll read you what we're looking for to change and how to change. "Organies and services of the local self-government unit in the doing of the work of the original district and participate in the preparation of laws and other regulations containing particular importance for the achievement and development of local self-government." We suggest that this provision reads: "Organies and services of the local self-government unit in performing the business of the original detour and give initiatives to regulate issues and make regulations of interest for the achievement and development of local self-government". Why do we think this better be legal? It is simply impossible to organise that the authorities of all local self-government units in the Republic of Serbia participate in the preparation of laws and regulations. It's megalomaniac, it's incomprehensible. Where you will gather so many people, where you will reconcile their views and their opinions, and this bill introduces the obligation of their participation in the preparation of the law. So any MP who wants to propose a law must call on the authorities of the local self-government unit to participate in law-making. Even the secretary of the assembly can propose a bill concerning local self-government, which was submitted by the MP, according to the Constitution, to reject as an unsettled proposal and to say - sorry, the authorities of the local self-government units did not participate in the proposal. This is practically unusable and this cannot be implemented in practice. I understand that they give initiatives, that their proposals are respected, but that they participate in the preparation of the law that needs to be passed, and as far as local self-government is concerned, that's impossible. The bill promoter should have accepted it. Nothing changes, remains their right to give initiatives, to give an opinion on the bill's proposals, as it has been so far. (President: Time. ) But to participate in the preparation of the law and to make it mandatory for anyone proposing the law to do so is impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18158	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Amendment bearer, although you weren't present when I called you, but come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18159	Whenever you come, welcome. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS as the applicant of this amendment that I am putting forward, believes that point 4 should be amended in Article 106 of the Law. That's what SRS deputy head Tomislav Nikolic said for a moment. It is difficult for us, MPs, to discuss more about this law that has been amended so much, and then amendments to amendments have been amended further, to understand what the essence of this law is, and we are absolutely certain that the alignment of individual members in the regulation of the final text of the law, if it is done by the wife of that interior minister, the federal one, will take maybe a year, maybe two or three. We don't understand why he was in a hurry with this law, why we're discussing him at an extraordinary session, when we have an announcement that we're going to have a new minister of local self-government, maybe we should have waited, so that the minister submits a bill, to think about him a little bit more. Perhaps it was an obstacle to the necessity that at least one law, proposed by Minister Batic, was passed, even if it wasn't his law, because it was amended by amendments. What we can say about this article is that it's even about the whole law. Mr Batic draws his legal proposals from his personnel base, which is why such laws are because the personnel base is poor. I would ask Madam President of the National Assembly to warn the minister not to throw the MP out of his bench. He told me what a fool you are. It speaks more of Minister Batic than of me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why, then, as authorised legislators of the law, if these matters are to be done by the authorities of local self-government. Who will finance these jobs and who will do these jobs in local self-government units. Let me also thank Cedi Jovanovic, who first publicly admitted yesterday that they invited citizens in Nis not to pay for electricity. It was Zivkovic until yesterday, until you said so, he refused to admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18160	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 112, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 107th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18161	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament of the United Nations, you are further reducing local self-government, even compared to what it looked like so far. You're introducing another surveillance of local self-government. Instead of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia seeking reports, data and what is already foreseen in article 107. The bill of law, you also introduce the authorities of territorial autonomy. So local self-government gets another tutor. Then they'll have a tutor over the tutor, with this smaller tutor getting more and more kidnapped by the tutor over the tutor and becoming too independent. This should also be declared by the future minister of local self-government. I read in the papers, and I hear on TV that it's a folk MP, Mr. Shabic. This is your DOS indicator. One whose status is to be decided by the local self-government minister becomes the minister of local self-government. If it's DOS, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18162	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 109 abstention, one did not vote 13, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18163	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I have submitted several amendments to this chapter and I will only try to discuss it once, given that it is the same explanation for all these amendments. May I have your patience, please? In fact, it is a very sensitive matter of relations between the central and local authorities. If I said the question of recalling the president of the municipality would be one of the first questions that will make us change the law, this would be the question that will first get us pucks from the Council of Europe, because these issues have been resolved as they have been resolved. I tried to give a detailed explanation for those solutions I offered. I'll tell you what. Namely, "administrative supervision of the work of local self-government is carried out in a way that ensures that the scope of supervisory powers remains in proportion to the protected interests it concerns". It's a quote from the European Charter of Local Self-Government. When the Council of Europe discussed some of the laws of countries in transition -- Romania, Croatia, Ukraine, etc. -- it made some recommendations. We don't accept those recommendations here, so I'm afraid we'll be on the recommendation list. The recommendation mainly refers to the fact that we did not stick to this legislative project in a particular procedure. There's no such thing as an apparition. When a general or individual act of local self-government is to be abolished, there is no warning, but is simply abolished. But what does the Council of Europe's recommendation say? In the case of a system of supervisory powers of the Republic and of the provinces, we should stick to the following principles: an indication of the non-constitution or illegality of the general act for the purpose of taking appropriate measures; afterwards, the initiation of a judicial procedure and the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court by the Ministry of Local Self-Government, or by the competent authority of territorial autonomy, for the assessment of the constitutional nature of the general acts of the unit of local self-government; there are possibilities for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision of the Constitutional Court (now there is a difference, and what is not within the law), in the circle of confidential cases of the suspension of the contested act, and within the circle of the original jurisdiction to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court and to abolish, but only very restrictive and exceptional, where certain decisions would have been carried out without compensate or would have been taken away by thecitizens ,etc. I am sorry that the Government has not accepted all these remarks, and I have practically reworked this whole chapter and I think it should have been accepted or at least imagined those solutions that the Government originally offered, based on these recommendations of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18164	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 13, against 100, three abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Išpanovich Istvan submitted an amendment to Article 109. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The MP has already given an explanation for this amendment. Do you want the word again? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 11, against 102, two abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's MP has also given an explanation on this amendment. Do you want the word again? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 11, against 96, the four abstentions, were not voted 38, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 110th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, explaining the previous amendment, I invited MPs of the majority coalition to pay attention to this reading, and I called it read because it was presented to us by the Government, where it informs us that it has considered the amendments to the bill and that it informs us which it accepts and which it does not accept. Why do I invite you to pay attention that this reading is interesting? Three amendments were submitted to Article 110: by Mr Ispanovich, by a group of MPs, said the DSS, as well as by the SRS, which I now explain to you. For the previous amendment by Mr Ispanovich and this one, the government says, "Amendment is rejected after an amendment has been accepted to this member submitted by the MPs," and is now listed by a group of MPs. All right. Mr Ispanovic's amendment is not accepted, the SRS amendment is not accepted and the government says it is rejected because it accepts the amendment of the group of MPs. Now I invite you to see that the reading is really interesting. He needs to be read away. The next amendment, which we will discuss, is precisely the same groups of MPs who say it is the DSS, see what they say - the amendment is also rejected. What's this all about? I'd call the government to deal with the government, see what she refused and what she accepted. Obviously, the government is in some kind of dissent, but the government is transparent anyway, so this is what we see now. What is interesting is the following, this Article 110, says - in the event that a certain legal act which is incompatible with their statutes is brought by the assembly of the municipality's statutes, with higher legal acts or with the Constitution, by the competent ministry or by the authority of the territorial organisation, by means of the statutes of the assembly of the municipality, by means of higher legal acts, and by the Constitution, by the competent ministry or by the authority of the territorial organisation, gives them a certain period of time to correct it; in the event that it does not correct, the competent ministry shall require the Government to suspend the implementation of that legal act and require the Supreme Court of Justice to repeal that legal act. It's okay. I suggested that it be thrown out - "that is, the competent authority of territorial autonomy". When we passed that "minibus of the law" a week ago, we didn't return jurisdiction to the competent authority of territorial autonomy, nor gave jurisdiction, nor entrusted those powers and competences to discuss it. There's someone from the government, and apparently this united minister, maybe he's making hot potatoes to the future minister; it's a waste of time. Time is wasting because the competent authority of territorial autonomy, in case it finds that some legal act is incompatible with the statutes and other acts, will inform the local self-government, and they will say - you are not in charge, and during that time that legal act is being conducted. That is why I propose that the SRS amendment be adopted and that it be thrown out - "that is, the competent authority of territorial autonomy", because it is not in its jurisdiction, thus wasting this empty time by the competent ministry and the government can react in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18166	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, there are no 102 abstentions, 22 did not vote, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Cvetkovic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment to Article 110.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18167	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group to Article 110(2) reads the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia" are replaced by the words "Governmental Court", and the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia" are replaced by the words "Government Court". Following the establishment of the Administrative Court of Justice by the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which entered into force on 1 January 2002, there is no longer any reason for the control of the mutual harmonisation of municipal acts to be carried out by the Supreme Court. The administrative court, as a specialised court, is primarily responsible for the control of the legality of individual legal acts, but this control is impossible to carry out without knowing the system of state administration, but also local administrations and self-government. Hence, the amendment transfers jurisdiction from the Supreme Court of Serbia to the Administrative Court. I suspect that the failure to make this amendment, a reasoned DSS amendment, has not so far been accepted by the Government or by the competent committee. The DSS amendment to Article 127 accepted that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia was replaced by the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court. However, this Article 110 concerns the assessment of the general acts of the municipality, i.e. the assessment of the consent of these general acts with the statute of the municipality. We believe that a legal solution is possible both, but given the existence of a administrative court and since all administrative matter is given to that court, this substance should also be given to the jurisdiction of the administrative court to assess the compliance of the general act of the municipality with its statute. Thus, the administrative court would circle the entire administrative matter on which it would decide, both in the assessment of the legality of individual acts and in the assessment of the legality of general acts. I would therefore like to ask for the adoption of this amendment by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18168	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if the government had caved in to the amendments to the MPs and had put in charge someone who was careful enough to respond to the amendments. We believe the Serbian Radical Party's amendment to article 110. The government didn't respond at all. In fact, the government wrote that the amendment cannot be accepted because it has accepted the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs to that same member. Immediately afterwards, by commenting on the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs to that member, the government said it did not accept it in the first part of the report by the government of Serbia, which accepted the amendments, there are no amendments to the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. That is why the Serbian Radical Party is deprived of the government's consideration of its amendment and of giving it a relevant court, saying it is not accepted because it is not part of the concept, because it was in the previous law, to invent the reasons for what the officials have so far invented, but to tell us that it does not accept our amendment because it has accepted one another, who has not accepted it, it is bordered by ignorance, with disincentives, with poor performance of its work, and the Assembly should not suffer. That was what someone from the Assembly, the president of the assembly or the secretary, should have warned the one from whom they received this report from the government. However, something else is observed here that the government was supposed to correct, namely one small conflict between members 108 and 110. Article 108 was to regulate cases in which the government could suspend one general act. The Government provided that, if a local self-government unit adopts a regulation or another general act whose enforcement will result in irreparable damage, be deprived or limited guaranteed freedoms and individual and collective rights of citizens or seriously injured general interest, the Government shall initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, but, until a decision of the Constitutional Court, upon a proposal from the Ministry, the Government shall suspend the enforcement of that act. You'd think it was the only situation in which the government is intruding into the rights of local self-government and suspending their act of execution. That is how a member of 108 is designed to house all the general acts, i.e. suspended from the execution of the General Act after the Government's resolution. However, Article 110 re-emerges a case where the government can suspend a general act on a proposal from the ministry, but this time unless it complies with the statutes of the unit of local self-government. This was meant to be in article 108 to systematicise cases in which the government was suspending executions. Only one objection to Article 111 - why the competent authority of territorial autonomy has the right to point out to the local self-government unit that its act is not in accordance with the statute and has no right to initiate proceedings before the Supreme Court of Serbia. What then will his right to indicate, when it is obvious that he is right to indicate, to initiate the procedure and to suspend one general act exclusively in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18170	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 32, against 83, with two abstentions, it did not vote 33, a total of 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 8, against 103, abstentions two, did not vote 36, a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to Article 111. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 111.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18171	Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator has again shown his intricacies in creating both this bill and this article 111. The promoter seems to care enough to change everything without worrying about the consequences. He'd probably count on the consequences if he knew what he was proposing, or what he wanted to change. In the name of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment that Article 111 of Article 1 states "the competent authority of territorial autonomy" is deleted, and that the article reads: "If it finds that an individual act of the body, or the service of the unit of local self-government, against which no protection is provided in the administrative dispute, does not comply with the law or other regulation, or with a decision or other general act of the unit of local self-government, the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government (this was deleted text) will propose to the local self-government unit assembly to abolish or annul such an act. If the assembly does not act within a month of the proposal of the authority referred to in Article 1, the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government shall terminate or repeal the act referred to in Article 1(1)." The reason - the unit of local self-government is the basic cell of a very complex political organisation of society whose supreme institutional form is state. The practice of modern states is abundant in a wide range of combinations, from the principle that local self-government is involved in everything that is not in the explicit work of the central government's authorities, to the principle that local authorities only carry out those tasks that are precisely defined as its jurisdiction. A kind of problem is also the fact that often local business can never be defined precisely to the end because they rarely happen to cross over into areas of action of general interest and vice versa. If the legal - territorial frameworks of local self-government violate the integrity of the local community then the problems of its functioning are multiplied. Here, the factor of space, which is an important determiner of economic and cultural life, plays a much more important political and legal role than other general political institutions within the political organisation of society. If the competent authority of territorial autonomy does not have the legitimacy to initiate proceedings before the Supreme Court, why put it in a position to write warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18172	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 107, the abstentions were not, not voted 21, a total of 147. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic to Article 112. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, the word is Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted because it contains the obligation. And that means the same relationship to everyone. It doesn't matter if the law says - the congregation can disband itself if it doesn't do something, or - the congregation is disbanded if it doesn't do something. Because then it remains for the free appraisal of those who make a decision about disbanding the congregation, means the Minister for Local Self - Government, to disband the congregation in one municipality because of the violation of Article 112 without disbanding the other. If his political party is in power in another, if there is any other interest in the other, if he expects that unit of local self-government to be extended to him in another way, or the political party that is in power in that local self-government unit by providing him with a quorum or giving him votes for some bill, then he can selectively choose which one of the local self-government units will disband, which he will not. If you accept the amendment, then the minister will be required by law to disband the local self-government assembly in these two tax cases, and I think the laws exist to limit the will of both the lord and the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18174	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 21, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 17, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 112. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18175	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 112 provides for conditions for disbanding local self-government units. It is provided for in point 1) to be so if it is not scheduled for more than three months and in point 2) if it does not adopt a statute or budget at the time provided for by law. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment adding point 3) which will provide that if the Constitutional Court finds that an unconstitutional and illegal general act of article 108th is also one of the reasons for disbanding local self-government units. What exactly is this about? Article 108 provides that on a proposal from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, the Government may suspend the application of a general act or a regulation which could lead to a threat to freedom, individual or general rights of citizens, to breach of general interest or to irreparable damage. Therefore, we now have one variant that could happen at the bar, but we have no consequences: what if the Constitutional Court, after 15 days, after the Government has asked for an opinion, really makes a decision that there has been a breach of the Constitution. In some hotels in England, they put the Bible under their pillow; it is likely that some people could get into their heads while they were sleeping. I think DOS should be put under the pillow to put the Constitution, that some things are understood, that in this country it needs maximum respect, because if you here, as large DOSs, don't respect it and bring unconstitutional laws, how are those "little" in municipalities going to do so? Tomorrow is Statehood Day and the constitution is celebrated even though it has been almost 170 years since its adoption, i.e. since the first constitution in the Balkans, and we in Serbia have neither the Constitutional Court nor the constitutional laws. That is why I think it is far more important that the congregations of the municipalities bring general acts or regulations to the Constitution than whether or not they are scheduled to hold a session in three months. What are some congregations of the municipalities now, perhaps it is better that they never schedule a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18176	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, there is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18177	The bill promoter has not seen all the situations in which and how he now, and you approve of it, can disband the local self-government unit. We have also suggested that the adoption of an unconstitutional and illegal general act, which, of course, was assessed by the Constitutional Court, should be the basis for disbanding the unit of local self-government. As we are convinced, the adoption of all these unconstitutional laws, which you have passed so far, is sufficient ground to disband the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We would accept it dearly, not only because we are looking forward to new elections, but also because we are ashamed to participate in such acts, even if we were against it. Because, you see, our government representative, in a given opinion, says that the non-constitution and illegality of a single act - he has avoided saying a general act, or an individual act, rather than saying - of an individual act, and it is a member of 108 and only of general acts - does not have to be sufficient reason for disbanding the unit of local self-government, and in the bill of law, delaying the adoption of the budget can be a reason for disbanding the unit of local self-government. Or, say, late for a session. The assembly doesn't sit for three months. Meets after three months and three days, it disbands, and the assembly that adopts unconstitutional general acts does not dissolve, it does not need to be dissolved, it is necessary to disband the one who has been late for a few days with a session or with a budget. Why didn't you predict here the situation, which has already happened in practice in Sombor, that the local self-government unit adopt a forged final budget account, that the court finds it and that people are in jail. Unfortunately, the secretary of the municipality, which is in prison, is from the Democratic Party, but it is the basis for disbanding the unit of local self-government. Of course, there are already more people from the county in prison. Falsifying the final budget account -- the basis is enough to disband a unit of local self-government that adopts such a forged final account. Here, in every unit of local self-government, you recognize yourself, working people chosen by the people. It's their duty to keep an eye on what they're doing. It's not enough just to be chosen and think you can do whatever you want. Pay attention to what you're doing. One day, Serbia will have a private court, I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18178	Is there anyone else who wants a word? Yes, Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18179	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in this House, since the start of the multi-party in Serbia, have witnessed that many laws, passed in this House by people who are now commenting, declared unconstitutional, and you have never raised a voice to disband parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18180	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For vote 20, against 113, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment to Article 112. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran M. Nikolic, on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18181	The DSS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 112, and it seems logical and should be adopted for the simple reason that we now have a formed municipal council, i.e. the municipal council. The DSS initiative is thus adopted, given that this Article 112 provides for the possibility that a unit of local self-government can actually be dissolved in two ways - if the assembly does not occupy for more than three months or if it does not adopt a statute or budget within the time limit set by law. We are giving the amendment to add a new position, which reads: "By disbanding the local self-government unit assembly, the mandate ends with a council (or a larger) unit of local self-government". Since the council or municipal council comes out of the local self-government unit assembly, it necessarily ends the mandate and the municipal council, i.e. the council, so I propose that this amendment be adopted, because it is simply a verification of what we agreed on - the establishment of a municipal council as an authority in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18182	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 96, with six abstentions, the vote was not 17, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 8, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from MP Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18183	In Article 113(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill of law of the word "or the authority of territorial autonomy" is replaced by the words "or the president of the municipality". It's as if the bill forgets the president of the municipality when he edits the procedure and the motion to disband the municipality. Instead, this bill uses the term - territorial autonomy organ, and it was certainly meant for an autonomous province, although the bill did not prescribe any supervisory authority of the autonomous province over the work of municipal authorities. Hence, the provision acts as a strange and uneducated breach of the authority of the Autonomous Province in this text of the bill, we believe that it should be eliminated and authorised by the president of the municipality. In Section 2, the words "three months" are replaced by the words "15 days". Therefore, the president of the assembly shall hold elections for the committees within three months of the date of the disband of the local self-government unit assembly and the elections will not be called if less than six months remain until the term of office of the council of the local self-government unit. So our amendment consists of cutting that three-month deadline to 15 days. Paragraph 3 is amended and reads: "Until the establishment of the local self-government unit assembly, the work of the assembly is carried out by the temporary body of the unit of local self-government from five to 11 members, which is educated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the representation of political parties in proportion to the number of committees and the size of committee groups in the disbanded local self-government unit assembly." This, however, suggests to the government that it respects the real political situation in certain units of local self-government. I call on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18184	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18185	The SRS could support the 2nd and 3rd position of the amendment tabled by a group of MPs, but cannot support the 1st position of this amendment. It is well noted that the authorities of the territorial autonomy unit have no jurisdiction to initiate proceedings for the disbanding of the local self-government unit, but where did you find this authority for the president of the municipality? What does that mean, then it was up to the president of the municipality to write "a motion for the disbanding of the municipality". When there is no, then it cannot be introduced into any other provisions, which now concern a detailed explanation of what jobs are listed taxively in the affairs of the president of the municipality. In our opinion, the president of the municipality can never submit a proposal to the minister to disband the municipality. Then it's just proof that a hiduci is being introduced into this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18186	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 30, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to Article 113. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18187	I'm asking the chairman that the time I'm going to spend reading this article, or quoting it, is not counting. Article 113: "The decision to disband the assembly of the local self-government unit shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government, i.e. by the competent authority of territorial autonomy". With my amendment, I asked that if that authority can't launch the Supreme Court's initiative, it can't even ask for a release. The DSS gentlemen signed the amendment, but they're not entirely, so they made a bad amendment. Take it another time, I won't sue you. A member of the law like this is ideal for manipulating the government. Your freshest example is in Surdulica. Mr. Minister, who runs away from my speeches as a young woman when the guests at the wedding break up, keeps running away when I go out for this pay phone and it's already become a tradition in this assembly. But I'll wait for him, just as the bride gets hers when she goes to the guests. In Surdulica, Mr Batic and four DOS council members tried to take over the local government. He pressured the judicial authorities, allegedly illegally elected, a new assembly was scheduled and out of four DOS council members, two tore up their ballots, and two voted to remain the same local government. That's how you exercise authority, and you give him such powers and this new law. You'll be wrong again. You're the one who serves us to make us laugh. We are there informed citizens of your authority and you will not pass there. Madam Chairman, please tell your colleague that Janjic Slobodan has only one warning. Your records aren't true. (louds from the O.R.: she's here. I don’t know when it comes from behind me, which is why I like to be on the other side of the pay phone, but I don’t want to hurt the other MPs. (President: Time. I have a stenogram of all my exposure. (President: Time, Theme. ) The theme is what I say and what the citizens of Serbia are asking me to do, and what you want me to say, I certainly don't want to talk. If the Minister of Local Self-Government allows a member of his party to volunteer in the Pcinj County, and it is known that the head of the district, as a designated person by the Government, cannot be a volunteer, what kind of minister, and also the minister of justice? Then what kind of authority are you? What do you expect from the citizens of the Pcinian County, which is the most endangered county in this country? I've been warned more than once by the chairman when I mentioned white powder. Here, gentlemen, today's paper announces that it's in the DS rooms... (President: Mr. Janjic, last time I warn you about both the subject and the timing. ) The theme is white powder in DS rooms. Gentlemen, you do some things... You came, you just didn't listen. I expected you to be in Chukarka, like Bora when he votes from Preshevo. (President: Mr Janjic, fifth minute, and do not stick to the topic of the agenda. You have two warnings. The next measure is taking words. I only have one warning. He's got a stenogram, the chairman. This is where you gave the warning to Mr. Nikolic. This is the only evidence. You can't say anything to me retroactively. When I leave the pay phone, the warnings are no longer valid. Now you can retroactively punish me for the debauchery of Excelsior, where we stayed for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18188	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18189	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the bill, from 108 to 113, are those members who are limited to the autonomy of territorial self-government units. Almost entirely, they've been copied from the current Law on Local Self-Government. Some small definitions have been changed, but mostly, when we Serbian radicals couldn't find any difference when we compared them, neither did you. It was your duty to seek them, and it was your duty to make a much more liberal bill, with much more freedom of the local self-government units, because all the time you were an opposition, it was uninterrupted in your mouth. The government of the Republic of Serbia restricts local self-government, because local self-government, as a rule, is held in all major cities by the coalition "Together", without the Serbian Renewal Movement, which is today's DOS, and now the government has dared the law to intervene in jurisdiction, in the autonomy of local self-government units, to violate the European Charter and to tutor units of local self-government. In this way, in many cities, you have made citizens bitter, turned them against the central government, against Belgradeisation, centralism, the Republic, Milosevic as the headquarters, as the pillar on which everything you want to throw yourself. Here, now that you're able to write laws, you're not fulfilling any of what you said you'd change if you came to power. You prescribe provisions when the Government of the Republic of Serbia abolishes the autonomy of local self-government units. There's not a single relief, there's only even more difficult circumstances. Now you've implicated the president of the municipality that he too is tutoring the congregation, and you've asked even if he can disband the congregation of the municipality. This only on the scale, when you report to the people of Serbia, you have a contract with him, I heard, under that contract, you should have called the elections, as I recall, but when you account for what you've done to the people for this time, tell me, this law on local self-government, what additional rights local self-government has received, except for those changes and additions that we've already adopted in this meeting, and which we've really provided for local self-government units. (President: Time. ) This law does not bring anything new, positive, and good to local self - administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18190	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Mr Vladan Batic, minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has not been accepted because the solution proposed in law is in accordance with the position of the forms of territorial autonomy. It's something that, by the way, has a thread in the entire text of the proposed law on local self-government. Otherwise, the proposed solutions in this law are absolutely in correlation and fully harmonised with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In addition, some doubts that the Council of Europe will give a negative assessment do not stand, for the simple reason that experts of the Council of Europe have given the highest assessment of the proposal for a law on local self-government. Also, experts from the Council of Europe have been involved as consultants in drafting the Bill on Local Self-Government. As for volunteer status and problems in some municipalities, I have not heard of any problems in Kovin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18192	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 16, against 110 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18193	Fellow MPs, the bill provides for the existence of a president of the municipality, as it takes more mechanically over the provisions of the applicable Law on Local Law, in which such a body does not exist. That is why we are putting up with this amendment, since the problem is solved by diluted all options related to the choice or untimely consolidation of local self-government authorities. I'll read this amendment. (Governmental Batic, from the place: "Don't." It is impossible for MPs to plead unless they hear this, and it will take a minute and a half. "If no elections are held in the municipality for the committees and president of the municipality, the Government shall educate the provisional body within the meaning of Article 113(3) of this law, which shall carry out all the works of the municipality, and the President of the National Assembly shall hold new elections for the committees and the president of the municipality within 30 days of the date on which the elections were to be held. If no municipal council is elected after the election for the committees and the president of the municipality within 60 days of holding the elections, the President of the municipality and the committees shall be suspended. The Government of the Republic of Serbia then educates a provisional body within the meaning of Article 113(2) of this Law, which carries out all the works of the municipality, and the President of the National Assembly announces new elections for the committees and the president of the municipality within 15 days of the day of the education of the provisional body. If, after the election for the committees and the president of the municipality, the assembly of the municipality is not established within the time limit set in Article 2 of this Article, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall educate the provisional body within the meaning of Article 113(3) of this Act, which shall carry out the tasks of the Assembly and of the Municipal Council, and the President of the National Assembly shall hold new elections for the members of the Assembly within 15 days of the date of the education of the provisional body within the meaning of Article 113(3) of this Law. If elections are held for the committees and the assembly of municipalities is established in a timely manner, but elections for the president of the municipality are not held, the office of the president of the municipality shall be held until the election of the president of the municipality, and the president of the National Assembly shall hold new elections for the president of the municipality within 30 days of the date on which the elections were to be held. The term of office of the committee or of the president of the local self-government unit elected in the elections within the meaning of the provisions of this article shall continue until the end of the term of office of the assembly committee, or the president of the local self-government unit." So he solves all four possible cases, in case the untimely establishment of the local self-government and the non-election of the president of the municipality occurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18194	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18195	This amendment fills the gap that the bill promoter did not see, because he wrote a bill guided by the so far fire of local self-government and did not even consider introducing the president of the municipality as the body of the unit of local self-government, so he did not predict what would happen if he was not elected, unless he entered into office or in other cases that could happen in life. We will support this amendment. And let me inform you, Mrs. Micic, that 28 MPs sit in the MPial towers, and it shines 38 marked squares. I'm surprised it doesn't irritate you at all. Do you care so much that the Assembly is working now, today, that you are ready to swallow and that DS MPs provide temporary cards for all their deputies who have not come to the O.R. You're lying. ) I think it would be much better if you'd let us see them attack Serbia and how Milosevic defends himself, but I think Serbia... (President: Go back to the topic. I'm going back to the topic... Because I read today in the paper that even in that accusation, Vojislav Seselj was accused of working with Radmila Bogdanovic in Visegrad. Vojislav Seselj was never in Visegrad from 1987 to 1994. Radmilo Bogdanovic served as minister until March 1991, and then retired. He met with Vojislav Seselj at some receptions and I mean... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I warn you to return to the agenda. )......................................................................................................... 1998 or 1999 on Palm Plus TV in Jagodina. I wish I'd seen all the lies against Serbia, so I could answer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18196	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 85, abstention, was not voted 22, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic to Article 115. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For two, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 115 of the amendment, in the same text, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and MP Bojan Kostreš submitted. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 116, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. National envoy Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18197	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 115, 116, 117 and 118 regulate the co-operation of units of local self-government or within the Republic of Serbia or their co-operation with units of local self-government abroad or association in different associations of associations. All of this is prescribed by the Charter and is not adapted at all to domestic legislation or the current situation. It is true that the previous Law on Local Self - Management contained these provisions. On that side, the opposition had no reason to object to the authorities in Serbia, because they had no way of restricting their co-operation either within Serbia or with organisations abroad. I'm surprised that now that you have power in the Republic of Serbia, you still don't feel, you don't think, you don't write as people who lead Serbia. Why did the amendment bother you that the local co-operation unit co-operated with local self-government units in other countries and with their authorities, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I guess that's the basic way. Not everyone deals with foreign co-operation. When they do, the state has to control it, it has to have insight into it, it has to appreciate it. Is it rational, is it necessary, why co-operation, with which cooperation, what kind of organizations, is there anything hostile to our country and the people? Furthermore, Article 116 of the Association of Cities and municipalities represents the interests of their membership before state authorities, and in particular in the process of passing laws and other acts of importance for the protection of local self-government, and that is the second regulation. It was already mastodon to include the obligation of units of local self-government, the obligation of legislators to co-operate with local self-government units when submitting a bill in the area of local self-government. Now their associations and their associations have the right under the law to always ask them for co-operation, or there is no law without co-operation with them. What do you need that for? This Article 116 should certainly be deleted, and I recommend that the government of the Republic of Serbia behave as someone with great responsibility for this country. On the one hand, when it comes to finance, then you end autonomy to local self-government units, and when you have to cooperate with abroad, you let them go, just like anywhere in the world is possible without the state taking care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18198	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? National MP Milorad Mircic, who was not present when I called him and submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, refusing this amendment, the Government has given reason to abolish the associations of cities and municipalities that have existed for decades. The government did not find it appropriate to state at least one example that this association would be abolished by eradicating this member, except that of the Free Cities Association founded just now by members of the current DOS, formerly the coalition "Together", and earlier in history you were DEPOS. The change is only that it is no longer Vuk Draskovic, now Vojislav Kostunica. No association of associations that currently exist as associations of local self-government is abolished. A permanent conference of cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia and the Association of Serbian Cities -- two official associations. Article 13 clearly defines how, in which ways and in which the associations of local self-government can be established and, clearly with the adoption of the SRS amendment by the Government, it was stated with the consent of the Government. Article 15 of this Act and Articles 115 and 117 clearly define the basis for local self-government. This Article 116 is a surplus, not an excess as one legal norm or an additional member of this, but a surplus in terms of what causes confusion, complicates things, making it complicated in such a way that all types of associations, associations can establish themselves that are supposed to represent or come forward to the government by protecting the interests of citizens. Then what do you need from an association called the continue to operate - a permanent conference of the municipalities and cities of Yugoslavia, what do you need from the Association of Cities and the municipalities of Serbia, what do they do? If you don't know, gentlemen, there are different sections within these associations and associations, they represent cities and municipalities both in front of the government and in front of others. Therefore, this is a clear stubbornness of the government. What makes us radicals tell you to delete this? Not because we're sure you'll do it in advance, but to make our job easier. You're in power now, you know, you're aware of the fact that you're leaving, but to facilitate the work that we're coming to, you can't decide, the people decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18200	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 18, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic and National MP Milos Nesovic submitted the amendment in the same text. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is the representative of the applicants reporting for a word? The word is from the People's MP Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18201	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here with our amendment, means the amendment of the DSS is proposed to delete this Article 117, for these reasons that the integration, or association of units of local self-government, is already regulated by previous positions 115 and 116 and is fully in line with that part, which has been done, with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which in its Article 10 says: "The local authorities will have the right to carry out their duties and to co-operate within the framework of the law, achieve consortiums and other local authorities in order to carry out tasks of common interest". There are two other positions, but I would not now, if we accepted Article 117 to remain in force, we would be in a position to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for a single-stage local self-government that takes place in the municipality, in the city and in the City of Belgrade, as foreseen by certain members, and nowhere is the provision of a multi-stage, or any other solution would lead to the creation of a two-stage local self-government, or autonomy that does not bypass the municipal level. For these reasons, we suggest that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18202	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18203	In any case, Article 117 should be deleted from the bill because it will create even inadequateness, although Article 117 and before regulation meant regulation of something already regulated. But one word that appears here could cause great doubt, or should always be asked to interpret us who have passed the law, and we ourselves here, I guess, that question and we don't know what it means -- co-operation of local self-government units, association within a wider regional area. If this is a regional area within Serbia, Article 115(1) has regulated it, and if this is a wider regional area within units of local self-government and in neighbouring countries, Article 115(2) has regulated it and it is clear. Why, then, such a member who says co-operation between local self-government units can be achieved within the wider regional area, has been approved, and we have already approved them to co-operate in both Serbia and the world with local self-government units. Which is a wider regional area, maybe when we settle the moon, Mars or what I know. This amendment to Article 117, which has been tabled by several Members, should be accepted because this member is not necessary in legal traffic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18204	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18205	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we had in mind when we proposed this amendment primarily to the situation in southern Serbia, where it can be significantly complicated by this member because of the possibility of connecting municipalities and creating a wider regional area. So, in this period where we don't have until the end of the defined relationship, maybe we should wait with this. Members 115 and 116 are thus guaranteed the rights provided for in the Constitution and the Charter of Local Self-Government. Simply, a later amendment to the law can certainly be introduced by this member, who, when the Constitution changes, will allow for a connection, but at this point we think it would not be good to leave this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18206	A representative of the promoter, justice minister and local self-government, Mr. Vladan Batic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18207	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of the promoter is to be in the spirit of some of the most modern European tendencies in this direction, by analogy to so-called. The idea of functional districts, which is applied and applied in Europe. However, given the turbulence that is possible in the south of Serbia and which are possible in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, given the need to create a new territorial organisation and new regionalisation of Serbia, the government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18208	The government has accepted the amendment, but since the committees haven't, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 124, v. 9, abstention 7 did not vote 27, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic and National MP Živodarka Dacin submitted to the same text. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the promoter of justice and local self-government, Mr. Vladan Batic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the proposed amendment is in direct correlation with the previous amendment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I also accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18210	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 121 against five, the abstention of four, did not vote 35, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. The speaker of the amendment is Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18211	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the Committee on Justice has adopted this amendment, I propose that this amendment be accepted for two reasons. First, it is the original jurisdiction of local self-government and according to the European Charter of Local Self-Government in such cases there is no need for various consents, or permits. Secondly, it's about being right here, some legal principles, upside down. It's about making it simpler for people who aren't lawyers. According to this article, if compared to one criminal procedure, the prosecutor should say he was guilty, and the defendant should prove not guilty. That legal principle has been violated here. Normally there should be frames. For example, it's about street names and some boundaries have to exist, frameworks where local self-government is allowed to give names, like streets. However, to whom does the burden of proof fall? That's what this is about, and I think if the ministry is contesting the decision of local self-government, then the ministry should not ban it, but rather initiate a court procedure where it will prove whether it is possible or not. For these reasons, I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, or the representative of the Government, please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18212	Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18213	The government cannot accept the proposed amendment, because there is a so-called "law" in the bill. A positive presumption. So, the local government unit determines the names, and if, within a certain time, the government does not dispute, then it remains as it is. Therefore, since it is a positive presummation, there is no reason to accept such a thing and this is not a matter of judicial jurisdiction to involve courts in the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18214	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 14, against 102, abstention three, it didn't vote 41, a total of 160. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 123. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this area of law that regulates symbols has led us to submit an amendment to this Article 123 for a number of reasons. Article 123: "The local self-government unit assembly provides statutes and other acts that regulate symbols, holidays and street names, squares and other parts of the settlement to the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government, in order to give consent. Where the provisions of the statutes of the units of local self-government or other acts relating to symbols, holidays and names of parts of inhabited areas do not correspond to historical or actual facts, if they are affected by general and state interests, national and religious feelings, insults public morality or if they do not comply with the provisions of Article 121 of this Act, the Ministry of Public Self-Government shall refuse, within 60 days of the date of receipt of the statutes or other act referred to in Article 1 of this Article, giving consent to those provisions of the Statute or other act. If the ministry in charge of the affairs of local self-government does not declare itself within the time limit laid down in Article 2, it will be deemed to have been agreed. "We ask for attitude 3 to be changed and it is said: "The ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government has been authorised to remove the names of parts of the inhabited town that have been established and highlighted contrary to the provisions of this law. "Without accepting this amendment, the local self-government is practically completely independent in determining the name of streets, symbols and holidays. True, the competent ministry should give ex post consent instead of prior consent as it has been and, worse still, if due to its lack of urgency it is not decided, the agreement is deemed to be given. The silence of the administration not only means approval but it means incompetence, which the promoter obviously had in mind, because DOS knows itself best and wants to establish such a situation in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18216	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Please, there is the word Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we wanted first to remove Article 123, which is an obvious surplus. Namely, the silence of the administration is regulated and does not have to be particularly necessary in every law to apostrophe: a decision is considered to be made, and if it has not been declared by the ministry. But we took the opportunity to point again at a void that appears if the law remains in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Last night, on "Studio B" television, I was informed by individual MPs of the Democratic Party that our amendments are pointless. But the one who has the courage to stop for a minute to chew gum and make a television statement that opposition amendments to this bill are pointless, let him look at how many amendments have been adopted. And even if it's pointless, leave your card, as you usually do, come out, have a coffee, and get another gum. The amendment removes one gap that will arise, which occurred in a city in northern Serbia. You always avoid saying there will be problems in northern Serbia. You only mention southern Serbia and I'm telling you -- you'll also have problems in northern Serbia in local self-government units unless the law regulates everything. Namely, what happens if the unit of local self-government sets the marks, would, monuments and thus harm Article 123 paragraph 2 so that it does not correspond to history, insults morality, insults the feelings of citizens; and what happens even if the ministry determines, or does not give consent to that setting, appointment of the square, the streets and the like? Who will arrange for these markings to be removed, and what punishment is it if these markings are not removed? Who now has the authority to remove, if the local self-government unit doesn't want to do it? You know we already have monuments to enemies and always enemies of the Serb people. We are the only country in the world, Serbia, in which Serbian enemies are raised monuments in its territory. You all shut up and close your eyes in front of the team. And with this bill of law, establish at least the right that we don't have to change this by altering and supplementing it when we beat you, establish at least the right to remove these marks immediately in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18218	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Boyan Kostreš to Article 123. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 11, v 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 125 for the simple reason this member is too high in this law. Otherwise, such a scrabbled law represents a scaler of local self-government. This Article 125 states that the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit, i.e. the President of the Municipality or Mayor, has the right to apply to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Authority of Territorial Autonomy, for reviewing the right to decide when the Authority of the Republic or the form of territorial autonomy has decided on a question from the authority of the municipality, or the city. Namely, this substance is regulated by the previous provisions of the proposal for this law, such as Article 105, 106, 107, 108, etc. It is said in Article 105 that the authorities of the Republic, territorial autonomy and the bodies of the unit of local self-government in order to exercise their rights and duties cooperate with each other in accordance with the Constitution, law and other regulation. Now, since we know how much the government respects this Parliament, or the Constitution, and we don't have a Constitutional Court, the question is how will this member be able to apply? Secondly, this article is completely pointless also because it speaks of reviewing the decision-making rights, which are regulated and to members who are completely exaggerated in this law. The amendments that have been accepted here delegate fully this article, because it appears to be larger as a new institution, which can also be the subject of this member. If this article remains in force, it will be completely pointless and will serve only as a dead letter on paper. The question also arises - and then to whom would the citizens of the municipality or local communities apply for a review of their rights, because in practice where there are many authorities... (The Chairman - three minutes and 30 seconds)... There are cases of abuse. One of these examples is in Apatino, in the local community, where the Roma Association is in one perfidious way deceived. Namely, they've been divided into severance receipts and instead of... (The Chairman - four minutes)... What they signed, so three cubic meters of wood for the heat, they got one meter. That's the way DOS behaves in most municipalities. We've heard a lot of examples here. Of course, you who read newspapers and halabuchets simply cannot understand that this law on local self-government is not in the interest of Serbian citizens... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18220	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18221	In Article 125, the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit, or the President of the Municipality, or the Mayor, shall have the right to request the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Authority of Territorial Autonomy, to re-examine the right to decide where the Authority of the Republic or the form of territorial autonomy is to decide on a question from the authority of the municipality, or the city, and the request shall be submitted within 30 days. Now I ask you (no Ms. Micic) - who will now be complained about by the citizens of Alibunara, who have been disbanded by the assembly of the municipality, imposed temporary measures, scheduled elections for the authorities of local self-government, for the committees, handed over the lists, and suddenly Mrs. Micic annulled her decision to call the elections and delivered a new decision that there will be no election. And now a deadline has passed, a legal deadline for calling new elections for the local self-government unit, and there, temporarily higher, which had one temporary term of three months plus holding elections and plus establishing new authorities of the municipality, remains to a standstill. Whom do the citizens of Alibunara, whom should be complained about by political parties, groups of citizens or individuals, who organised the elections, printed propaganda material, visited citizens, urged citizens to go to the elections? Who will now compensate for the moral and material damage to the citizens of Alibunar, who thought they would be allowed to choose their local self-government authorities, and that the tutorial body, appointed by the government, among them by the vice president of the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia, is a former Socialist, whom to complain about the citizens of Alibunar, whom?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18222	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 32, out of a total of 163 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 126th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Garcevic and Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Amendment applicants are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 110, the abstentions were not voted by 30, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is wanted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18223	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 127 of Section 5 reads: "The local self-government unit has the right to compensation for damages caused by an act, i.e. by the operation of a state authority or by a body of territorial autonomy, when the Supreme Court finds that there has been a violation of the right to local self-government." Looking at the authority of this proposal, a man wonders - why not. But if you go into it, then you have to ask -- and why, that is, how do you do it -- yes? Or, what is the damage, which can be produced by an act or by a state body, in relation to a local self-government unit? Will this unit of local self-government suffer mental pain if the ministry says that some mark is not in line with the history of citizens, so the court finds that it can be swept under history, what's the damage? This is about money now. Well, you can't just say college -- it has the right to compensation for damages. What harm, what damage, what damage can the state do to one of its organs now, lower than it? By injureing someone of his right to local self-government, that's what the Supreme Court does? What is the type of damage, whether the citizens of the Alibunar will now issue a claim for damage to Natasa Micic, the president of the National Assembly, who has annulled the election decision and seduced the dictatorship in Alibunar; because everything that is not in accordance with the law, all that usurps the rights of local self-government, it is a dictatorship. Now will the National Assembly, and we did not anticipate in the budget, that it was paying damage to the citizens of the Alibunara, each of them individually and all the candidates for the committee, whose reputation was questioned, or our candidates, who were so prominent that the government was afraid of calling the elections? Except for that crazy laugh, I don't see any other reason for you to react like this. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Ask some of you who are laughing, and you are not in power, or in opposition, just a little bit crazy, ask yourself, why the elections have been annulled, why has the decision to call the elections been annulled? You might want to ask yourself a few questions. When the lists of all candidates arrived, why did the government cancel the election?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18224	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There's a word Mr. Vladan Batic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the local self-government unit has legal status. A legal person may suffer property damage to certain acts and acts of territorial autonomy or any other state body. By absolute analogy, in all those things that every legal person has the right to compensation for damages, so the unit of local self-government has the right to compensation for damages, if any of its rights is damaged or injured by a law of the state authority or by the authority of territorial autonomy. There's no magic in there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18226	He has the word National MP Tomislav Nikolic (a replica to the minister's presentation on the basis of a misread by the minister).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18227	What you've interpreted, Mr. Minister, is a basis for replication. And the local community has legal status. Why was this bill not given her the right to compensation for damages caused by the municipality and the state by some act?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18228	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For the 21st, against the 119s, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of a total of 163 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 128 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bozidar Vucurovic and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the few amendments in which the SRS asks for a member of the law to be deleted, and for one pure and reasonable reason -- defender or Ombudsman, as you like to call it, does not exist at the level of the Republic. We're bringing him in backwards now -- we're going to start from below, and then we're going to either not at the Republic's level to bring him in. "Here we have a happy day, we have received the Ombudsman; and Ub and the Great Plan will have his ombudsman; Tutin and the Long Field, two people's ombudsmans; and three city defenders Lazarevec to Vreoc; and the Obrenovac, as the bread of the ombudsman's company, needs it; both high and very bright, to defend them from the minister. You set up ombudsmen to defend the poor people; no people shall save where the DOS is in power; but only they may desire a rod of suspicious cleanliness. "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18230	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an adjudication that the Government of the Republic of Serbia introduces to Serbia, and even a foreign word, which we say very hard, introduces to legal traffic, which is only because the frog saw the horse soaring and raised its leg so that its legs would last longer. What now to talk about, to praise the Government of the Republic of Serbia who wants to give citizens free defenders, and has not given them the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Where does this house come from? The house is built from the ground. The legal system, the legal order of the foundation is being established, and in the light of the legal order of our state, it must be the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What will that Ombudsman, before whom the civil lawyer will protect the rights of citizens, when there is no Constitutional Court, when there is no basic protection, when the village is unprotected. You can talk about whatever you want in the village, and when it's unguarded, it'll fall. We have been subject to legal order, and we are introducing the Ombudsman to Merošina, and we do not have the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. It is incomprehensible -- the government of the Republic of Serbia has been silent for the 14th month on our calls from this pay phone that we do not have a Constitutional Court of Serbia. It will prove that a Constitutional Court judge may have been born last year and will have just passed a judicial exam once the government has decided to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. What now to say to Article 4th, 128: "The civil defender sets up a local self-government unit assembly in the order of prominent and politically impartial figures." You have to tell me if there's a million of us, I don't count underage children, if there's one politically impartial person. There are here in the Assembly of Unbiased Political Persons, moving from party to party when it is in power. There are also entire political unscrupulous parties, because they always pass by those who are in power. But in basic terms, how to introduce a politically impartial personality into the law, I'd say idiot, because in the original sense, an idiot is a man who doesn't deal with politics. A man differs from an animal by what he thinks. In this country, political thinking is being considered and everyone is thinking politically. There's no unbiased. It'll be a job for a lawyer. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) To tell Mr. Minister - at the beginning of politics - I was in a party ruled by lawyers. She failed in the first election and never recovered again. Don't count too much, Mr. Minister, that on the basis of your esnaf, you will place ombudsmans throughout Serbia, as you now place local self-government in charge based on your position. Don't count on the support of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18232	The word has a minister, Mr. Valdan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every day from this pay phone to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is respected that it is responsible because Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court. To clarify this matter, we just need to read the Constitution a little bit. The Government of the Republic of Serbia is not in charge of electing judges of the Constitutional Court, nor is it responsible for proposing judges of the Constitutional Court. Judges of the Constitutional Court are proposing the President of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia is not a member of any of the DOS parties, he is a member of your long-standing coalition partner. Therefore, the Constitutional Court story has nothing to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18234	What's the basis for the replica? (Tomislav Nikolic: He said "your longtime coalition partner". Do you dispute the fact that you were in a coalition with the SPS? (Tomislav Nikolic: I dispute the fact that I've been a long time. That's an estimate of time for the minister. (Tomislav Nikolic: He did not interpret me well. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18235	Mr. Minister, I read those provisions of the Constitution carefully when I first objected that we did not have a Constitutional Court. You said what it says in the Serbian Constitution, but the president of the Assembly, then Dragan Marsican, said only two months ago that he was guilty because there is no Constitutional Court of Serbia at DOS, because you did not agree on who you would be judge of the Constitutional Court. And the government of the Republic of Serbia, it's DOS. The government in Serbia, it's DOS or I really don't know anything. I blame DOS, it is for me, the government of the Republic of Serbia, that we do not have the Constitutional Court of Serbia and that none of us, individually, have any judicial protection. We're only in the hands of the executive. If there were good journalism and there was an objective legal public, you'd be on a pillar of shame long ago because we don't have the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18236	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 128 on the vote. For 24, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 128th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is a bearer of the amendment, the People's Messenger Arsen Kurayacki.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18237	Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, that we do not have a Constitutional Court, that must be a big problem for our society, for the state and for our Assembly. Just because we don't have a Constitutional Court doesn't mean we don't have to give our citizens protection on a local level, at least in that first degree. In order to regulate and ensure everything properly, I have submitted this amendment to Article 128 of the IJ chapter of the Protection of Local Self-Government, where all members are almost all concerned with the protection of local self-government against higher forms of government. This member I am working on concerns the protection of citizens from illegal or other actions by local authorities. Therefore, this Article 128 provides for the introduction of a new Institute for the Protection of Citizens, which is the so-called "Citizens". ombudsman or civil defender. It is certainly a democratic fluid of developed countries, which has shown its purpose. The legislator believes that this kind of control of the local government is necessary. I personally agree with that, but only on the condition that this is regulated in such a way that it represents a serious institution that will be independent and will not be subject to changes in its powers, status and everything else, depending on the operationality of those who actually need to be controlled. The law stipulates that units of local self-government can be established by a civil defender, so they can and can't. This means in some municipalities with a higher degree of democratic consciousness, this Ombudsman will be established, while in other municipalities, where some of the more rigid views may be, it will not come to life. Also, it is predicted that each municipality individually regulates everything about this. So, jurisdiction, authority, the way of choice, the way the duty ends, who can defend himself, really leaves everything, in accordance with decentralisation, at the will of local authorities, to regulate everything themselves. However, we know very well that every control institution at any level, if it is not independent of the subject of that control, comes down to a formal existence, is subject to influence and all forms of pressure. This way of regulation is drastically violated by one of the basic constitutional principles, which is the principle of citizens' right to equality. In fact, some citizens will have their own defender, and others will not. In some municipalities it will be some serious institution, and in some other municipalities it will be some formal democratic decor. So, to conclude, if we really want this provision of the law to be implemented in all municipalities across Serbia, if we want it to be in the right essence, and what it will say at the pole of all people... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm finishing up... When we haven't already regulated that by this law, then let's assume that this is regulated by some special law, which will uniquely regulate this for all municipalities, for all citizens equally. In that sense, I suggested an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18238	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 85, abstentions 7, did not vote 31, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Garcevic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 14, against 116, there are no abstentions, no 30 votes, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 130th amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are coming to the last page of the bill, to a site full of absurdities. The 130th article clearly defines and shows us what the Proposer wanted with this bill; he wanted to deliver here for adoption something that would partially justify his campaign promises and not give anything, especially now that the political climate in the country has changed dramatically from 5 October to today. Therefore, it is selectively determined what ceases to apply on the day of entry into force of this law, and what remains of that dictatorial, rigid, rude system that destroyed local self-government. Thus, according to Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the selection of municipal committees remains valid and will be implemented until the new law on the selection of committees is passed. Why is this law, which aims and is announced as a law that regulates an entire area, which has even dealt with the advice of local communities, why has the law not regulated the question of how the councilors are elected and now the president of the municipality? A clear question is raised to the representatives of the authorities who wrote this bill, and why this law did not write in the 130th provision that because they remain subject to the provisions on the election of committees, they will hold elections for all bodies of municipalities under this law within three months. Now we have three kinds of community bodies: the president of the municipality, the municipality and the municipal council. Will there ever be an election for the president of the municipality, for the municipal council and for the municipal council? What is this law that has established new authorities and has not defined when they will be elected, when will the congregations be established? The law says that municipalities are obliged to comply with their acts under this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. Why do you coordinate papers in municipalities and not coordinate the situation, you don't harmonize life. The municipalities will now coordinate the statutes and other general acts with the law, and neither will the president of the municipality nor the municipal council. What do you want them to coordinate? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I understand that you are in a hurry for a reception that you have at 14 o’clock, but let those of us who want to talk about the law go. Leave your cards and I'll accept that. Everybody out to that reception. I'll count as if you're here. I won't even complain about the quorum. Just don't get me when I'm talking about the bill, 'cause you don't deserve to throw it at me. He can throw anyone who talks about the bill to me. But to throw Milk at me... (President: Four minutes. ....................................................................................................... who hasn't even read the bill, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18240	And pursuant to Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the People's Parliament that at 14.00 hours is a common reception, because our holiday is common, not yours, not ours, but the national holiday of the Republic of Serbia. Since the MP insists, on behalf of the National Assembly, we congratulate him on his birthday and hope that he will participate in the worship of other fellow Members of Parliament. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 16, against 114 abstentions, there was no 29 vote, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slavoljub Matic submitted to the 130th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18241	Just to remind the government's representative that he will have to accept this amendment, given that we also deleted Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18242	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18243	Since this is about harmonising with Article 19, on behalf of the Government, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18244	Since the motion has been accepted on behalf of the Government, but the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee has not, I ask the National Assembly to declare the amendment to Article 130. For 113, against three, abstentioned 6, did not vote 33, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 130th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Karolj Kermeci. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Do any of the other authorities want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicants withdraw the amendment and thus cease to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 131st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 116 abstentions, there were no 22 votes, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Išpanovich Istvan, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 132. It's a bill of law. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18245	I don't know what this is about, Pal Shandor and I didn't drown you very much by being born at the meeting, you're sorry you weren't born on big Serbian days, these people were especially marked, but I thank you for your congratulations. I think I've spent this first half of my life right and as a man, this much more and that's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 132 is important, very important, and don't deal with it so lightly. It determines when we will have established new bodies of the local self-government unit. The legislator, not to use a harsh word, wrote something that no one in the public could defend, that the provisions of this law would apply from the next regular elections; as if there were going to be in Serbia the next regular elections; as if Serbia had been welcomed several times during this multi-party proposal; even when you were extremely weak, you received extraordinary elections, as soon as the situation in the country existed so that this could no longer stand. The situation in the country will make you vote this year, I guarantee you. After all, on March 15th, our myths begin, and you'll see what it looks like. Let not only your shoulders shake and your underpants, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The amendment says, "The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to call elections for local self-government authorities within six months of the entry into force of this law." The important thing is that he has some deadline, it could have been three months and a year, but some law-proposer had to put it in. Then you accepted the amendment where the word "regular" is deleted, so it says it will be applied from the next election. We want to know when the law is establishing something, when it will be ordered to build it. What does that mean we have the right to the president of the municipality by law; when will we have the right to elect the president of the municipality? We have the right to a municipal council by law; when will we have the right to choose a municipal council? Then I ask you, and how are we going to choose them, how are we going to choose the president of the municipality, how are we going to choose the councillors? You don't have here, it doesn't say how the elections are going to be held; you're going to make a new law on the election of the president of the municipality, a new law on the election of the council, so it takes another year, as you do quickly and professionally, two years to make that bill. You're already promising us 100 burning laws, and up in the benches we've got five or six laws that haven't been on the agenda yet and there's nothing left. Make a commitment, just as you were in opposition, making commitments to the people -- that deadline, that kind of money, that's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to do; now make a commitment when you're in power, when we can call you out for promises. What you were talking about while you were in opposition, it's morale for you and the conscience and the people in mind for the next election, but now as a government, make promises, adopt most of the time in this assembly when we have elections, then I could believe you're doing what you think you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18246	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 17, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote 16 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Ljubisa Maravić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. I implore the People's Messengers to listen with attention to the messengers of the people for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18247	You'll get to that reception, it's only one floor away from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment examines whether you count Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia or not. I accept the reality that by Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija were placed under the temporary administration of the United Nations. I don't accept the reality that since you've been in power, you've done everything you can to make us feel like people who lost Kosovo and Metohija. You must always convince us that you care about Kosovo and Metohija. Not about how many Serbs will stay there, how much will come back, how you will spend money intended for southern Serbia, not about who the administrator is, who he is, who he is. I am interested in whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia or not. If so, accept this amendment. He doesn't commit anything to the government of the Republic of Serbia, he doesn't invite her to war to defend Kosovo and Metohija. It calls only on the obligation that when the United Nations mission ceases, and the resolution says that when the mission ends, it will return to Yugoslavia of Kosovo and Metohija, we will discuss elections for the Kosovo and Metohija committees. Unfortunately, it would be such a complex national environment that it was necessary to predict a different size in local self-government, so that there would be no majorisation. Although accepting this amendment, and later amending and supplementing the bill, we could tell the whole world in reports from this session, the next day to tell the whole world -- Kosovo and Metohija are still Serbia and will still be Serbia. While Serbia is and will be subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18248	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 115, abstention four, did not vote 15, a total of 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. It shall be subject to Article 133 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which took place during this extraordinary session, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, as the need for an amendment arose as a result of the previous acceptance of the amendment of MP Milan Markovic to Article 72. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 131 versus 13, abstention 9, it didn't vote 10, a total of 163. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The MP withdraws the amendment, which stops being discussed in detail. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 133. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two more members, just a little more time, and you'll pass one of the law. But part of the amendment you accepted, the one you thought wouldn't cost you much, and those amendments that significantly determine the fate of local self-government, and this one on Article 133, you didn't accept. This Article 133, or amendment that I have submitted to it, is not ideological. I guess none of us are different in that. We have to have a law on selecting a councilman. Why don't we make a commitment not to give the terms and conditions in which this law will be passed? This law establishes a completely new local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At least I think it's new because there's a new government. New authorities, reforms, new authorities, so they can't do that to the old municipalities. New wine in the old mix. It's not working. You want reform law? Come on, now let's go to the new congregation of municipalities, to choose a new assembly of municipalities, which is agreed to enforce this law. That one doesn't agree with you, because he hasn't even been elected after him. When are we gonna pick new councilmen? When are we going to have a chance to discuss the Council's election law here? We don't have that law anymore, we just have his provisions that still apply, but we don't have the law on. We don't have any regulated question about the mayor's election. How come they're handing over six months of law on the city of Belgrade? How can the Government of the Republic of Serbia respond to my amendment, which is also being discussed with the adoption of a law on the election of committees, say - this law cannot impose a law on the election of committees. What will we do when this law conditions -- the law on the city of Belgrade for six months? Is that a legal principle? No, this is a political principle. This is political thinking about this law. Wait a little while longer for these congregations, which we have set up like this, to take positions for the new elections, to change all election commissions, to take seats, and by the way, you don't know what the lists will look like, or who they're going to go with, or what it's going to look like. Some of you are for proportional principles, some of you are for majority. If you really want to give citizens an opportunity to choose, accept the amendment, and if you want this kind of fear, regulation, without the Constitutional Court, the trade that takes place before each amendment, continue this way, but the people see everything and know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18250	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 24, against 132 abstentions, there was no vote 10, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment to the debate on the Law of Local Self-Government in particular. If someone wanted to and could question you in all the chaos that brought you up to what kind of law you'd be voting for in a few minutes, you wouldn't know. You don't know for the simple reason that in the course of five days, how long the debate on the law in particular has taken place, so many amendments, contradictory amendments, and the amendments to the amendments, that no one lives now knows, until it's published in the Official Messenger, what the consolidated text of the Law on Local Self-Government will look like. Your indiscipline also appears with this member. I ask Article 134 to be deleted because we believe there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of a special law on the city of Belgrade, because you should know that the Constitution is an art. 118, an orderly area of the city of Belgrade because only the city of Belgrade had the status of the city, i.e. several built-up municipalities within the city, when the Constitution was adopted in 1990. The law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia is exactly the orderly position of the city of Belgrade, and here the legislator tells us that this law, which should be passed within six months, will regulate the position of the city of Belgrade, as if we do not know what is the position of the city of Belgrade and other cities that have gained the status of the city - Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Pristina. Well, then why didn't you say that, when it's your principle and method of work, you would also pass a special law for those other cities within six months. But the question is, will you be able to do anything more in Serbia within six months? I don't think you'll be able to because the wave of people's dissatisfaction, because of everything you've done in the past year, will be bigger and bigger, because of your devastating national and economic, as well as social policies; and don't brag about how effectively you've done, I don't know how many days in the last year. Where good luck you didn't work at all and none of your laws were passed. It would be much better for all of us, for all of Serbia's citizens. This way, you will continue to pass laws that you will daharmonize with the European Union, to coordinate with the European Charters, etc., and not only that at the level of local self-government, citizens will have no protection, but they will not have any more legal chaos in the city of Belgrade, or other municipalities and cities of Serbia; nor will local self-government be in the role of citizens, to use their constitution-guaranteed rights, but they will produce an even greater legal chaos which is, however, now, unbearable. So it would be good for you to reconsider your conscience in the next few minutes. It's obvious that you've long gone astray... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ..... And that you're not able to do that. I would tell you, Mrs. Comic, since you are so zealously informing me of seconds, that in some European metropolis the arrival of the subway is so announced. The law on Belgrade that you are about to pass not only will it not improve the accumulated municipal problems and public transportation of Belgrade's citizens, and about the subway they can still dream of.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18252	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, there is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this 134th member in the most harsh manner possible violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, at the time it was brought in, envisioned only Belgrade as a city. Article 117. The constitution says the city can be established if there are more municipalities in its composition, and Belgrade has earned so much attention that in the Constitution, a whole of the 118th with six views is devoted to it. All this has been regulated and what laws on the city of Belgrade can be passed. The second is clear -- the territory of the city of Belgrade determines by law. Only the law on the city of Belgrade, as a specific instrument, can regulate it, is its territory. Only a law on the territory of the city of Belgrade can be passed, not at all --a law on the city of Belgrade. After that, several other municipalities were declared cities, but that doesn't mean that they need to be invented now. In the Constitution, of course, when we change the Constitution, you invent special features and for the city of Belgrade, I agree. But now, this constitution does not give the possibility to pass a law on the city of Belgrade; exclusively a law on the territory of the city of Belgrade. Everything else is regulated by the Constitution. That's how the city of Belgrade is now built. He is in exactly the same status as other cities in the Republic of Serbia. That you invented a few villages, say, in Kragujevac to be one municipality, and everything else, so it's the city, it's your games now. The game of power, which I don't care about. But the conditions of the Constitution are formally met. Here in the Constitution, there is nowhere to be singled out of the city of Belgrade as someone to be passed a special law. Don't play with it. As much as Belgrade is now in this constitution, it is one city, such as Novi Sad, such as Nis, Pristina, Kragujevac. When you change the Constitution, let it be -- the capital of Belgrade, let it be the capital of Belgrade, whatever you want; and write in that constitution that he, his status, his organisation, his territory, will be regulated by a special law and we will have that law on the agenda in the Serbian Parliament. Now to tell us that we will have law on the city of Belgrade on the agenda, and the Constitution does not allow that, it is playing with the National Assembly. That's why we don't have the Constitutional Court of Serbia: to ride as long as you think you can and not as much as we can handle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18254	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 137, the abstentions did not vote 6, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure? Proposed by the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Marsican. [[(Sagar, disdain.) Voices - no right, hello...)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18255	Hello, the sequel goes into verse. Read the Rules of Procedure, every MP has the right to make a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He has no right, except for the president of the parliamentary group, to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to propose, according to the Rules of Procedure, before the debate ends in particular and before we approach the vote on the law in general -- which will be voted by the Democratic Party of Serbia because the largest number of essential amendments has been accepted; that is exactly why I am reporting, because it has been accepted somewhere over 40 or 50 amendments, and to a significant extent the initial concept of the law has changed -- that it should be borne in mind that the adoption of such a large number of amendments in the sitting itself can lead, unless one pause is left,... He's speaking to the Minister. It's your call to make, but I'm just warning and suggesting... may produce one document, one act that will not be well agreed; its provisions will not be brought into line because it has been intervened with the amendments and, therefore, I propose, under Articles 139 and 145. The Rules of Procedure, to take a break before deciding in full, should the relevant committees and representatives of the Government take a look at the definitive text of the law after the interventions, following the adoption of the amendments. I know it takes time, but I think it's a reasonable proposal to finally publish the text of a law that won't produce negative effects or some application problems when adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18256	I am putting on the vote by MP Dragan Marcjanin to stop by adopting the law after we voted on the amendment to Article 134 which was submitted by Parliamentarian Natas Jovanovic, and before we decide on an amendment to the 134th MP Milan Markovic. I ask the National Assembly to declare whether it is a standstill in the adoption of the law. For 64, against 94, with five abstentions, six of the 169 MPs did not vote. I insist that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Dragan Marsican. We continue the discussion in detail. The word is by MP Momcilo Trajkovic (proposed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18257	Dear MPs, during the debate in principle, for this speaker, I have suggested that the Assembly adopt a recommendation at the end of the adoption of the law on the principles for the formation of self-government for the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija, considering that we cannot pass laws that can apply there, and as we have seen today, no amendment has been adopted that could supplement transitional and final provisions. In these principles, I am a drawer to the heads of parliament clubs, but also to the president of the assembly, it is predicted that in territories where Serbs live as the majority form local self-government for the Serb community. It is primarily central Kosovo, it is the issue of Northern Mitrovica, it is the issue of the Kosovo Maritime and Metohija. Also, these principles provide for the formation of six areas of self-government; these are autonomous areas in which Serbs at a transitional stage, until the Kosovo status issue is finally resolved, could carry out their own self-government. Autonomous area for northern Kosovo, central Kosovo, Kosovo Pomoravlje, the carpal area and Metohija is scheduled. I think it would be politically very harmful to adopt a law on self-government today, in which Kosovo is not treated at all, without adopting one recommendation, which the Assembly can, in this way, further potentiate with the competent institutions of Serbia and Yugoslavia, which co-operates with the international community, to establish self-government for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. self-government with the majority Serbian population; thus overcoming the problems we currently have, which we will have in the next period. If we don't do so, I think it would be extremely politically harmful and it would be a very bad message to the Kosovo-metohic Serbs, because they will be left behind in those disturbed relations, and we will be unable to observe, as we are now looking at what is happening in northern Mitrovica, what is happening in Strpce and across Kosovo and Metohija, and we have no right to do so. I propose that this issue be opened, that there be a way (here, there is a member of the 257th that provides for it), and otherwise I have also handed over the basics and principles to the President of the Assembly and to the heads of Parliament clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18258	The proposal of MP Momčel Trajkovic is missing for three reasons - firstly, there is no Article 257 in the Rules of Procedure, but I am counting on it in confusion during the presentation; secondly, pursuant to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, recommendations, shall be made to the President of the National Assembly, or the Service, in writing; thirdly, there shall be procedures for putting on the agenda. The moment when the MP decides to write a recommendation and put it in the procedure, he will be at an extraordinary session if the agenda or at a regular session is established, when the Assembly declares it when the agenda is adopted. Given that none of these conditions have been met, I believe that MP Momcilo Trajkovic has done this proposal in the Rules of Procedure more because of the public, than because of the procedure of the National Assembly, but it is my duty to remind him that the procedure of the National Assembly must be respected. This stops the need to put MPs' proposal to the vote. We're moving on to further discussion in detail. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic to Article 134. The government and the judiciary and administration committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The MP withdrew the amendment, so he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Since we have completed the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments, does the proposaler's representative want the final word? There's a minister's word, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18259	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after several days of debate, we have come to the moment when MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be told about the proposal for a law on local self-government. This law means the realization of DOS pre-election promises made to voters. The process preceding the bill was one broad, months-long public debate at different levels, in which several local self-government representatives participated. I would like to say that the ideas of contemporary European legislation in this area, adapted to our specificities, were accepted, that the idea should have been an affirmation of the system of division of power, and, on the other hand, the establishment of a system of responsibility. We have accepted all the useful suggestions given in the form of amendments by the MPs, and all the MPs' clubs. For the first time in this matter, a drastic change has been made, which, of course, has caused great debate and great interest, quite justifiably, many MPs, who come from their local backgrounds and want to contribute to the affirmation of local self-government and this specific descent of democracy to the ground. The law has also been harmonised with the European Charter, and with EU regulations, it has been most positively expressed by experts in the Council of Europe. It is also a prerequisite for admission to the Council of Europe, and the law is otherwise just one of the stages in the full affirmation of decentralisation and affirmation of local self-government in general. Its full realization will be possible only after the adoption of certain structural laws, and of course only after the adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I sincerely believe will be voted by the DOS majority in this House by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18260	I hereby conclude the review of the draft law in particular and put to the vote the draft law on local self-government, in general. For 148, against 17, the abstentions, did not vote six, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on local self-government. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word was sought by the president of the parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18261	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to introduce you to an initiative that has arrived in the Republic Parliament. That's what the Republic Government told us, and I'd like to ask you for your understanding. It is about the emergency putting on a new agenda, as it has been found at the moment that there is a great need to give state guarantees to a German lender, who has singled out 150m euros to resuscitate Serbia's Elektroprivreda. I think it is clear that it is a general social interest, that there are no party obstacles in this, that we must therefore make this effort and put it through an urgent procedure to discuss this addition to the agenda and thus enable us to discuss on Monday a law that has five members and which is, in fact, only one form of state guarantee prepared by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. I think this initiative will come to an understanding, given that it is clear how important the Elektroprivreda of Serbia is to function in our society. MPs will have the opportunity to receive a proposal for a state guarantee bill by Monday. I repeat, he only has five members. That's what we're going to do to make a big concession to an EPS who certainly deserves something like that. (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18262	I put on the vote a proposal to extend the agenda and put on the agenda a point proposed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. For 132, no one with abstentions voted 24 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to put a new point on the agenda as proposed and requested by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The material will be delivered to the MPs during today's day. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, as deputy president of the parliamentary group. People's MPs are leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18263	Have a seat. It's not just -- it's the law and the Constitution, so get out of the O.R. Sit down, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, where are you running?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18264	I ask the MP not to speak to the MPs. He got his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-14-0.u18266	I am informing the MP, as the warning of the opposition MPs that an electronic voting system is being controlled, that 81 MPs are present at the moment and that we do not have a quorum to continue work. I thank the MPs of the people and call you once again, on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasha Micic, for the solemn marking of tomorrow's holiday. I am informing the MPs present, because we do not have a quorum for work, that the work of the National Assembly session will continue on Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 151 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have established that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly and we begin the work by notifying the absence of the MPs. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Stevan Lilic, Dragoslav Boskovic, Petar Misic, Dragisa Marinkovic, Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Jočić, Branimir Trajković, Đorđe Čukvas, Višnja Nežić, Goran Vesić, Juhas Atila, Nebojsa Leković and Sredoje Mihajlov. The People's Messenger Jon Chizamash will be away in the morning, and the People's Messenger Milos Radivojčević will be late for the beginning of the session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Natasa Micic announced that representatives of the People's Movement "Resist" and representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were invited to this session. We continue to work on the agenda and as decided on Thursday. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA CREDITSTAL FÜR NjiEDERAUBAU FOR THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE "ELECTROPREVRED OF SERBIA" You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Reports of the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, whose meetings were completed before the start of this session, will be presented to you during the debate on the principle and I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee has proposed that a legal and technical editorial be carried out in the name and Article 1. The bill, as well as to add the word "first" after the word "pre" in Article 2(1), and the word "principal" in paragraph 5 after the word "repayment" is added. The proposaler's representative agreed to this legal-technical editorial. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Committee member, MP Zoran Novakovic, was appointed. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups to open this item of the agenda to the Secretary of the National Assembly of People's Parliaments who will participate in the debate on the principle, so that a list of Members of Parliament can be prepared under the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vojislav Seselj wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
