ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19910	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I am informing the MPs that, according to official record, the session is attended by 145 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radmilo Milosevic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Alen Selimović, Dusan Cvetkovic, Višnja Nežić, Anton Biaci and Miomir Tadic. National MP Dragan Kovacevic will be absent from the morning part of today's session. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement "Resistance". Notification of the confirmation of the mandate of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose to establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have received reports from the Administrative Board, which have determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament have been met, with proposals for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Zoran Angelkovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list - Slobodan Milosevic; Jeleni Maslovar-Ralevic and Milos Todorovic, elected from the Serbian Unity Party's election list - Prof. Borislav Pelevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MPs Zoran Angelkovic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Milos Todorovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and hope for their good participation in the work of the National Assembly. I am also obliged to give you a notice on the education of a new parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new "Employment Group called DOS-Demochrist Party of Serbia", consisting of seven MPs. Professor Predrag Stojanovic was appointed MP for the parliamentary group, and Deputy MP Gvosden Jovanovic for his deputy. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Security Act (Common principled search with amendments to the Health Protection Act) According to the order of the Members of the People, according to the application for a word in this joint principle debate, the People's MP Arsen Kurjački, followed by the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19911	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, told us yesterday that the reform laws in the field of health are working, that they are in a more advanced phase and that they will be put into assembly procedure very quickly. If so, we think we should wait for those reform laws, and then all of a sudden we end up, not like this on a piece to solve certain things. But since there really is a need to comply with the Labour Act, then we can also do this part of the job, although the question is why these health reform laws and reforms do not go faster, is it because the competent ministry thinks that the state of health is not alarming. What exactly is the state of health care? In mid-March, a newspaper article published an article by the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases on Dedinj, under a daunting title - "Longs to Stop Your Heart". That's where the director explained in what low-cost and misery this reputable facility is doing, and among other things, he says that those patients who can pay certain costs themselves, and these costs, for example, for a bypass, for testing and installation, cost about 8,000 marks. He also says -- those who don't have money, stand on the waiting list. And to the provocative question of journalists if they welcome, he says - many do not welcome that order. These days across Serbia, a single flyer, a request from the University Children's Clinic on Tirsh Street. It's a clinic, who doesn't know, a college school base, where future children's doctors come to study and practice. Among other things, it's said what's going on at that clinic. In hematology, where children are treated for malignant diseases, there is no divorce of oxygen. There is no proper monitor in cardiology to monitor severe heart defects. In the burn department, the malter is off the wall, and the Polish equipment borrowed from the military is used for anesthesia. There's a campaign called here to help this hospital. The campaign says some ambassadors, actors, some companies, politicians, such as Mladjan Dinkic, Goran Pitic, Svilanovic, Bozidar Djelic, will participate. The question is, should we solve problems in health care through campaigns like this, via videos, or systemically? I note that these are Belgrade renowned health institutions, which, hands to heart, still receive much more money than other health institutions receive at other centres. I will only point out that the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases in Sremska Kamenica, for a similar size of business, gets far less money than "Dededenje", which was a favorite of the former regime, and unfortunately now this regime. How then do other health institutions pass through smaller community centers? Our condition is really alarming. It is unacceptable for the Ministry to treat health in this way and not to move into serious and fundamental system reforms in health care. But what to do, we will look back on this proposed law that consists of two lists and six members, but we will also process it to show that there are a lot of illogicalities there, although we will support that law, because it is necessary to harmonize with other laws. Therefore, the government's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, which we have received, is first prescribed by overtime. Overtime work in health institutions was prescribed by the 1996 Labour Relations Act, but unfortunately he did not find a place in the new Labour Act. There is only one provision that says - health care services, such as overtime, are governed by a special law - Article 38. The labour law. This special law is clearly the Health Protection Act. When we read it, we came to a closed circle, that the government prescribed overtime from the former labour law, and those provisions were not found in this valid Labour Act. It is clear that overtime should have been prescribed in the Labour Act, which we as a parliamentary group pointed to, but unfortunately there was no one to listen to us. The Proposer of the Law makes mistakes if he edits overtime as set out in Article 44. The 1996 Labour Relations Act, because it retains the indifference between duty and overtime. In addition to regular health care, there are two kinds of overtime. One is the usual overtime, which cannot be planned and this is the need for unfinished health services, a sudden increase in the volume of work and everything that simply cannot be planned, and is realistically happening every day. The second category is the so-called preparedness, or in the people called house duty, meaning when the doctor's exit occurs as needed, or at the call of the patient. This is a special type of overtime and must be introduced, and unfortunately it is not foreseen, because in some health institutions it is not justified, because of the general nature of the activity, to introduce continuous duty. These are, say, health stations by village, then institutions like this. Paster's New Sad Institute, where there's no need to keep an eye on it, but there's a need when patients come to respond and intervene. This is determined by the Director of Health Services to ensure continued health care. So, according to us, it is mandatory to separate overtime from duty. However, the Government's proposal covers only regular duty: at night, on the day of the national holiday and on Sunday, limited to only 10 hours a week, which in our opinion cannot provide adequate health care. This has already been confirmed in practice and we know that hospital duty lasts from 12 to 24 hours, after which certain days are provided, and payment has been regulated by this special collective agreement. Article 9a of this proposal states that health and other workers are entitled to increased earnings, overtime, in accordance with the law and the general act. However, this is excessive because it already stands in the Labour Act, where it is said: "Employees have the right to increased earnings, in accordance with the general act or contract of work, for overtime, work on the day of holidays, which is a day of unemployment, night work and work on shifts." This is Article 82(1). The labour law and it's very clear. There were no restrictions on increased earnings for overtime and duty to be regulated by this special collective agreement, as before, and with the invitation to this member of the Labour Act. Instead, the proposer demagogical gives some right to healthcare workers, whom they have, in fact, already under the Labour Law. In other provisions of the bill, voluntary and supplementary work is introduced into health institutions. In the light of the bill's proposal, it states that volunteer and supplemental work is introduced on the grounds that the Labour Act does not provide for the possibility of volunteering for traineeships and professional training, as well as the possibility of working in the form of supplementary work. That's what it says in the explanation, which we all got. This is partly true because the Labour Act does not foresee volunteer work, but it is incorrect that it does not know the supplemental work. So again the fine-tuning that can be checked; namely, members 93 and 94. The Labour Act, the Department on the Prohibition of Competition, is clearly spoken and therefore results in additional work and how it is permitted under the Labour Act. What is important is to point out that volunteer and supplemental work are not unique to health institutions. There are also in the economy, public authorities and public services. So we need to change the provisions of the Labour Act. These are the failures of the Labour Act, which we pointed to. Now these failures are resolved in the health law, and the rest of the districts remain unprotected. If we literally interpret, from the point of view of health, this proposal shows that from 21 December 2001 (when the Labour Act came into force) until today, both overtime and health services were not allowed, and that healthcare workers who were on Saturdays, Saturdays and weeks on duty were actually breaking the law and working outside the regulations. That's how we get to the point. By prescribing overtime, duty and volunteering in health, the Proposer of the Law directly corrects the errors contained in the Labour Act, and corrects them by prescribing the provisions of the 1996 Labour Relations Act. Of course, we are in favour of making these mistakes right and better than not being corrected at all, but we did expect some old laws not to be prescribed, but to be more modern, different and modernized, some relationships that are modern in Europe and the world. In order to legalise the existing complementary work of healthcare professionals, it is necessary to specify the type, way, duration of work with another employer, similar to that regulated by the Labour Act. It should also be established whether this type of supplemental work can be performed on its own by an employee in an establishment where he is employed, of course if he and his employer have needs and interests. This is a very important question that no one has touched, because this way, by regulating such complementary work, we can say openly, we would hit the ferocious corruption in health, and the capacities of health institutions would be much more rationally used, and thus also maintained investment. We all know that there are a lot of health workers who can't or don't want to open their own offices, they can't or don't want to work in other private offices, they want to do their extra work on their own jobs. We know the lines of private patients standing in front of certain offices during working hours in state institutions. So this question should once be raised, this public secret should be revealed and open up the possibility that healthcare professionals, out of work, work at their own workplace, work privately, naturally organised, with a certain amount of compensation, in the interests of all of them, employers and of course patients. Finally, as regards the volunteer specialisation of unemployed healthcare professionals, they should be allowed for the reason that this type of professional training will allow unemployed healthcare professionals to qualify for jobs that will later be able to work privately or in state institutions, but the point is that the number of these specializations and their niche species cannot be given chaoticly, but must be organised, they must be established by the regional health protection institutes, in line with the long-term goals of a single health policy in Serbia. As a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, we will support this law, because of course we understand that it is necessary to harmonise certain laws that have already been passed, but we appeal and insist that the Ministry of Health finally deal seriously with the health reform, because that is the deplorable need of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19912	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19913	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike some who spoke here before me and criticised the proposals of these two laws, I can tell you that the SRS will not support and at the same time criticise any law. So if we criticize him, we criticise the government, and that's why we want a better law. As the government's proposal, which is now not present, and we don't have a minister, said - these proposals for the law are not reformal. I agree with his assessment and I ask the question - why are they even on the agenda? Apparently, these amendments to the law need to be brought into line with existing legal regulations, but nothing new has been proposed in the first place. So, even so far, the employer's been costing up to 30 days, over 30 days, the medical board was sitting, and then it was falling for health and social security funds. Mr. Prime Minister and Vice President said there have been abuses so far and that these new additions to such abuses will be disabled. However, no part of the bill shows this and will certainly continue to be about the abuse of the old. So, how's it been so far? What the most SRS resents these proposals is supplemental work - how useful it is for both our health care and our users. Usually every crisis in society and the crisis of government feels health first. In my opinion, this looks like "my concern goes to another one." The government of the Republic of Serbia, as a legislator of these laws, acknowledges that it is unable to reward doctors and healthcare professionals in quality quality for its work, so it resorts to being able to carry out their work additionally with other employers. As this has been happening so far - even so far it has been, more or less, now only legalized what has been done so far and what has been done in any case to harm the citizens, i.e. the users of health services. So far, it has been a practice for doctors to evaluate themselves, in their own opinion, not all of them, but a good part, which the patient will consider as a health care user, and whom he will refer to with his colleague or employer, and then examine it in private and charge him well for it. That's what it's been like so far. Now you've legalized this and such abuses will be even more. I'd like to mention now, since they were mostly health workers here for this pay phone, that I've noticed that they're most concerned about the issue of overtime and duty, and that's why they're getting paid. However, the question arises, mainly for all those speakers who have been here - are the patients, or do the citizens exist for them or do they exist for the sake of the citizens and what is their duty? It is their duty to heal, and since you gentlemen from DOS have come to power, it has been working - about a year ago there has been an actual payment of participation; then the minister explained that it is necessary for healthcare institutions to buy through these participations manual material - needles, vats, alcohol, personal hygiene, cleaning agents, etc.; so you have introduced the participation that every patient who comes has to pay 20 dinars for each review and control; so you have introduced participation on medicines that are not paid, 20 dinars per box. And it's been a while. Now, I can tell you that I don't even know any more reasons why this participation exists and where these funds are going, because a few weeks ago I took my daughter to the doctor and I can tell you that I was really surprised when I was in the children's ward, for preschool children, at the door of the office where the injections were being given, and I read that my parents had to bring a needle, cotton and alcohol. It has never been in Serbia, it has never been until now that children had to carry a needle, cotton and alcohol, even at the time of the greatest sanctions. Gentlemen, if the situation had been a little better in health since you came to power, I wouldn't have criticised you so much. It's now proven to be worse and worse. What does it look like and what is the question of the current speakers, especially from the ruling coalition, that they want to show that they are not all to blame for the situation in health, is the question - why is the budget so pre-remended and where are these funds being channeled from the budget? The question arises - what about Batic's incursion in Galenika, when at that time in Galenica there was raw materials for the production of drugs worth about 10 million dollars? Mr. Panic used these raw materials, made medications, sold, and then the Serbian government took it from Mr. Panic Galenika. And let me remind you, I already said, these were funds, these were raw materials belonging to our health insurance and social security offices. The health debt of some two billion marks to citizens is mentioned, but no one mentions that you have been in power for more than a year and that this debt, as far as I know, has not been reduced. The question is, where are the funds going, where are the funds of the budgets that are being charged? So, all this work you've done so far has not been good, and I'm surprised that no one cares about it, not even in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the gentleman, the government's authorised representative, says - it's not my portfolio, I'm not in charge of it, I just came to explain these laws. I don't know why this government is in charge, especially what the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of, I know that he's made a lot of statements in the press about the sexual dissent of minorities, but he doesn't have the right to come out here and say, "I'm not guilty of the health situation." Well, he's guilty anyway, at least as an individual in one collective organ that doesn't lead the country right. By now, you've been from the West, I've said more than once about this pay phone, and you've accepted only ultimatums. Why don't you accept some of their smart laws, especially from the countries closest. For example, when it comes to abuse, Austrian health care has been much easier, much more painless and much cheaper to overcome all these problems, which they had with health corruption and health abuses. Why don't you use their experience? Why don't you accept from the West what's good? It doesn't happen there, especially in smaller environments, that doctors, that patients travel to another doctor, even though they have it in their place. And they travel to another because their doctor stares into their pockets and sees what they bring in their hands. Experiences, at least from Austria, are like that, and she's from the West, thought to be the West. There are several forms of providing health services: one - completely state-owned, and this is mainly reflected in hospital treatment; the other - completely private, through private clinics; the third - semi-private, where the doctor, whether the specialist, whether general practice, has his own office which he has equipped with his means, and receives the salary based on the number of medical insurance records used by his healthcare services. So, there wouldn't be one office full of patients waiting in line, which means that this doctor is doing a safe and quality job, and his colleague is waiting for patients who need to bring him something and eventually receive the same pay. I think the state of health is so alarming that we have these amendments to the law, especially today, it was not necessary and that it is time for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose one real, quality law, which will be in the interest of both health workers and healthcare professionals; the first would not have to walk from one another, from private to private, or to work on black, and because of the users of health services, this all exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19914	National MP Dragoljub Vojnović, replica. The basis for the replica is a commentary on the presentation of MPs who are doctors, as well as their views on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19915	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I respect and listen carefully to every MP's speech, but I believe that the previous speaker has misread, and I would even say - and I would say some things on purpose. It turns out that in previous exhibitions, healthcare professionals were only interested in overtime and how to pay for this work. That's not true at all. Anyway, that's not true at all. If you listened carefully, we talked about it. And secondly, I advocate, just like you, that reform laws be passed. That's what I'm talking about. We who work in this area, of particular social interest, know under what conditions we work; and we are at least, to say so, promoted so, although we are respected that we are first in corruption, etc. Please don't come out here with such opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19916	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and after him, the MP of the people Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19917	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dr. Jovanovic is not here, Mrs. Pavlovic, respected health ministry representative, respected journalists, SPS MPs indicated during the debate and adoption of the Labour Act that there could be some problems in bringing other laws into line with this, conditionally parent law, the law on numerous areas and activities. Interestingly, a number of MPs spoke quite differently when the debate on the Labour Law went on, and today it is rightly cut down by the provisions and consequences that this law has in relation to health care and health insurance laws. In this way, I point out to my fellow Members and fellow Members, the MPs, that when laws such as the Labour Act, which is a systemic character, must always foresee its fact and its real, usually negative, consequences for those laws that will just enter the congregation procedure and which, later, we will not be able to correct. But this is just a finding. We today cannot correct the provisions of the Labour Act, which define the changes that we are talking about here today. And the propo of frequent stories and one tension that exists in society that the level of corruption of health workers in the country has reached such a level that it has become intolerable, I am not a doctor, I am not a health worker, but I want to speak a few sentences about this problem, because I think that nothing faster and easier than a gun and a word is a thief in Serbia. From one and the other, the consequences can be devastating. From the point of view of the sad and tragic experience that my family had, I want to say: I am obliged to a large number of medical workers, respected professors, many people in pharmacy institutions, the Cacchak Medical Centre and a number of renowned health care institutions in Belgrade, that in four years of my address to these professional and wonderful people, I have never encountered any man who is gesture, explicit or in any other way asked me to bribe someone to do a health care service for my late wife. I'm obliged to say that because one story about corruption, which these days reaches an unprecedented situation, offends the pride and dignity of one of the most honorable professions in the world at all. Of course, in this way I am not amnesting anyone who has in any way wronged the Hippocratic oath, the Ethics Code, the Code of Professionals and the general moral code of principle. All who have different experiences should say it publicly or wherever it is to be said. But if they don't, let them shut up forever, because that makes it impossible for a number of patients, whose destiny is primarily important to us here, more important than the fate of health care professionals, to have normal, timely and quality health care. I had a moral obligation to say this because it's simply incomprehensible that anyone who registers as an NGO, as an anti-corruption resistance headquarters, as I don't know who else, has the right to place various people in corrupt in Serbia today, without having any legal or any other consequences. As for the law and the subject matter of our debate here today, I listened very carefully to distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament on the Health Committee this morning. I've spent almost 10 years of my life working at the Medical Center in Chačka, and I have enough information to justify talking about all this stuff. For the purposes of the Medical Center in Čačka in 1982, with a group of colleagues, I did one analysis - that a doctor who is on duty for 30 hours a month, if he has the opportunity to be on duty for 30 years, earns 30,000 marks more than a fellow not on duty. But that was a long time ago. Today, such calculations could not be done. The basis and motive for someone to choose a particular specialty was, among other things, the affinity to one or another branch of medicine, and whether on-calls are organised in that branch. The proposed legal solution, however, consists practically of overtime. I want to say that Serbia is not in the same degree of health care organisation in Piroth and Cačka, in Sjenica, and Milanovac and elsewhere in Serbia. If we pass a regulation like this, we will prevent a number of small health institutions from adequately organising permanent health care. In this way, we will do an ugly service, primarily to patients and citizens of Serbia. There are no black and white variants here. No solution exclusively contributes to a better degree of healthcare organisation. Many medical centres in Serbia today leave their fellow doctors, specialists, small centres and there perform medical practice in the interest of patients who live and work there to facilitate their position. Because, I must say, unfortunately, teachers no longer live in Serbia's villages, and doctors live long ago. A long time ago the priests began to go to the cities without merely serving in villages in Serbia. This problem is comprehensive, if we care about Serbia's village, we should also enable this legal solution not to shut down the ambulances by villages in Serbia, and age itself is difficult. If a man is still sick, he has no choice. If someone is sick and old, they can't go 30 kilometers to the doctor to give him adequate medical care there. I appeal, primarily to medical workers, doctors and people from the Ministry, to be reaffirmed and to be brought into the normal position of professions - the doctor of general practice. If there was a coma in something, it was in relation to patients according to the general practice. It's unacceptable for someone who's been studying for six years, who finishes his internship, to intern for a year, to be just a shifter at medical clinics for specialist doctors. It is necessary to allow these people above all to provide health care, adequate to their knowledge, their position, and the needs of their citizens, or patients. This way, on the one hand, we have in certain centres a number of specialists who cannot be employed, and in other places and other health institutions we have a lack of general practice that would be valuable there. The matter should be leveled, primarily for the benefit of Serbian patients and citizens. Here I have submitted one amendment and several with a group of MPs from the SPS parliamentary group, and that will be the case when the amendments come to the agenda. The SPS parliamentary group cannot support this law, not because of the whim and not because of the principle, but because the level of national health is one of the fundamentals in the SPS programme, and this law calls this level of national health into question as proposed by the law objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19918	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him, the people's emissary, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19919	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Health, two very important laws, health insurance and health care laws are being amended before us. From the health ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia, we are informed on the Committee on Health and Family that root changes in this area will follow at the end of this year. As an SPS MP who comes from the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, I believe it is my duty to point to some current problems relating to the field of health care and health insurance. Until the arrival of UNMIK and KFOR missions in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, health care and health insurance worked, despite certain difficulties, in a completely satisfactory way in all five districts, where there was a developed network of branches of the Republic Institute of Health Protection, as well as a developed network of specialist and hospital and preventive healthcare, in which insurance companies exercised their rights regardless of religious or national membership. After the UNMIK and KFOR mission arrived, the situation changed dramatically. Unfortunately, a number of health workers in a large persecution of Serbian and other non-Albanian living in Kosovo and Metohija lost their lives. I think that both this time and every other occasion should highlight the courage, determination and sacrifice of healthcare workers across Kosovo and Metohija who remained there, as well as workers and managers of the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica, as a factor of survival and the rest of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, neither this health care facility is able to provide complete health care because it is not equipped with the necessary diagnostics, laboratories and other devices, and due to a large inflow of patients from Kosovo and Metohija, a number of patients are forced to continue treatment in healthcare institutions throughout Serbia. This is, of course, necessary, because the pathology of the disease after the war has been extended, especially to mental and carcinogenic patients. Thanks to the competent authorities, the treatment of patients from Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's territory has never been questioned, and Serbs across Kosovo and Metohija are grateful to institutions and health workers for unselfish help. I'd like to point out something that's about to happen. Unfortunately, the UNMIK and KFOR mission, contrary to Security Council Resolution 1244, is working on something that could be devastating for the Serb people and members of the national minorities in Kosovo and Metohija. The future health strategy in Kosovo and Metohija consists of the Department of Health and Social Protection, which exclusively includes Albanian experts. Their proposed strategy does not respect the cultural, social self-loathing of the Serbian and other non-Albanian communities. Under the existing security conditions, equality of rights from the domain of health care would be compromised. All healthcare and health care organisations from the Health and Social Protection Department from Pristina began to take over on the ground. UNMIK has launched a competition for the selection of directors of primary healthcare institutions, i.e. the institution in which the largest number of patients is treated. Then, the health committees take full responsibility in the strategy and strategic planning and budget planning of basic health care. The Health Services Department completely ignores the role of our country's trustees, and co-operation with them is valued as undesirable. A built hospital in Gracanica that has an internal clinic, emergency surgery, gynecology and obstetrics is not listed in the plan and network of health care, and on their part there is an idea of shutting it down. Albania's Health Services Department is predicting something that is already hinting at the outlines of the future phantom state -- major Albania, which is that in the coming period Tirana, i.e. Albania provides health care to Kosovo and Metohija for carcinogenic diseases; the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, i.e. The clinic in Skopje should provide services to Kosovo citizens when it comes to cardiovascular diseases. There is no speech on co-operation with Serbia and Yugoslavia, as well as sending Serbian patients to hospitals throughout Serbia. Nowhere is the possibility of perfecting Serbian personnel in Serbia, but only in Kosovo health institutions. Full control of the delivery of medicines and pharmaceutical products via the Albanian agency Kadra is being introduced. The closure of secondary medical schools is foreseen, and this is in Gusterica, Gracanica, Plemetinii Kosovo Mitrovica. Where are our children going now? The document envisions that the health care financing system envisions the personal participation of patients, which would pose a major problem for the Serb people and members of the national minorities. Since Security Council Resolution 1244 does not mention the health issue anywhere, it is necessary for the competent state authorities to urgently address this problem that is becoming acute, questioning the survival of the Serb people and other non-Albanian living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. All this has brought great unrest and anxiety to the Serbian people and members of other national minorities, and an urgent need to answer the question of how and where the non-Albanian population from Kosovo and Metohija will be treated in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19920	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19921	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, both of these draft laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal to amend the Health Protection Act, are essentially just a alignment with the Labour Act. It reminds us all once again of all the perilousness of the law we passed seven to eight months ago. When it comes to the Proposal for a Health Protection Act, I would particularly like to apostrophe of additional work that is determined up to one half of full-time. I believe the introduction of such a large supplemental work will lead to negative consequences, primarily for patients. Most employees of healthcare workers working in a state-owned health institution will use to receive patients and direct them to their private offices. Of course, that's what's happened so far, but right now we're going to verify it even more by this law. Another very important issue is raised regarding this law, the Health Protection Act, and the specifics of the supplementary work itself. The question arises as to the quality of the work of a healthcare professional who works 7 - 8 hours in a state - owned health facility, who has four hours of additional work, and who also has overtime and duty. When all this is collected, it turns out about 300 hours a month, about 70 hours a week or, on average, one top doctor under these rules will have the right to work 12 - 13 hours a day. So how much a top doctor, and not just a top doctor, but any healthcare worker, can do 12 or 13 hours in quality. We also have these provisions under the Health Protection Act on overtime and duty. They're not the same categories here, it's so written. In the area of health insurance, the application of the Labour Act is particularly devastating, and here in this case it is clearly seen. You can see that and when it comes to all the employees, because we've been discussing it for a long time, and we've come to the conclusion that it's a gross principle, or how it's now said profit, a much more unfavourable principle than when we had a net principle, so we've had regressions, a warm meal, etc. Translated to benefits for absence from work and sick leave, when it comes to sick leave, we now have 65% of these profits. That's the sickness benefits. So far, the sickness benefits have ranged from 85% to 95%. However we measure it, we would see that these are much more favourable solutions for the people who need to use this right. The new regulations also stipulate that the employer covers sick leave, and I speak in a language that is suitable and that we understand each other better, covers up to 30 days and over 30 days goes to the Health Insurance Office. That looks like a very favourable solution at first sight, but it's a big question mark. It was done because factories, businesses don't have enough resources and now this right is being transferred to the Health Insurance Office. But what's going on? If the factories don't work, businesses, companies, if there's no payment to the Health Insurance Fund, then there's no payment of sick leave through this institution. That's quite clear. That's how users of this right are found in a vicious circle. They no longer know what's better, whether that previous solution or this current solution, because they are currently waiting around six months for sick leave in Serbia. That was before, but before there was a second time, there was a time of sanctions, a great difficulty. Now they're donations, but obviously, and we've talked about it multiple times, rarely donations come in cash. They give what they need, what they don't need so much, and it's supposed to be that they're great benefactors, that they give big donations and that they do a lot to us. Therefore, I also believe that eradicating a member in 46 does not mean anything, only adapting to new methods, or the Labour Act, but also reducing insurance rights. Article 50 does not mean that insurance companies will have a more favourable position, but they come into one complete uncertainty when they exercise their right. I'm talking sick. Deleting Article 2 of the 33rd Article, under which an insurance fee has been made for insurance companies whose prevention of work has been caused by injury to work or professional illness, brings these insurance companies into a very unenviable position. The fact that these persons will be covered by some other types of protection is total uncertainty and uncertainty. You know, when it takes some right to be exercised through the republican authorities, it's always much safer than when it's transferred to some municipal organs. This isn't defined as how it's going to be regulated. I'm saying, it's about people who get hurt at work, get out of work under these conditions or earn professional illness. It's an interesting situation, and with the rights of a funeral insurance company. The bill comes, in my opinion, to a reduction, because now it all comes down to 50% of the average earnings in the Republic. So far the solutions were between 50% and 70% at the municipal level; with those municipalities that had this small average this solution is not so bad. For municipalities where there were bigger profits, this is a worse solution, no matter what we can translate this into those gross principles and net principles. What is important, related to funeral expenses - should be said that in this proposal too, a large number of persons do not have the right to use funeral costs. For example, this right does not have farmers, who are exclusively engaged in agriculture, self-service owners, business owners, self-employed persons, priests and religious officials. It would be fairer and more humane to make this right by everyone. Of course, it'll be said that there's not enough money, but maybe you could think in a different direction. Perhaps it was necessary to delete that funeral expenses go to the burden of the Health Insurance Institute (Health Insurance Institute is however a health organization or institutions, however you wish), and to move this right regarding funeral expenses to another institution, to another institution. Finally, all in all, it is true what the promoter defined, that this is not a reform law, but it is true that these bill proposals, both of them, mean the reduction of insurance rights, which is also the case with a number of other legal projects that have come into this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19922	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic. The SPS has five other registered speakers and a total of 13 minutes available.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19923	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, as the chairman said there were five other speakers, will briefly look back on the harmonisation of these laws. Namely, it says, the reason for the adoption is to comply with the Labour Law and with the newly established gross principle of salary accounting. If you remember, the SPS parliamentary group was absolutely against the Labour Act, and it had significant objections when it comes to the gross profit principle, because we said that all fees, when it comes to the calculation of the gross principle, were more unfavourable for those who receive them, were in the event of termination of work and of the technical surplus worker, either when it comes to sickness benefits. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, it is clear that it is a degradation of all labour rights for which they fought over the past ten years. It's practically a probe of the terrain that when a foreign capitalist comes and takes over the company, it's all over, that he doesn't have to worry about anyone else, especially the workers. We really thought that health care was of particular social interest, but seeing how the government behaves when it comes to, say, only the Ministry of Health, that for seven or eight months we haven't had a health minister (practically, this extremely important area nobody cares about), then it's no wonder, anywhere to meet a healthcare worker or a patient that both trees and stones are throwing both at this government and on the principles that are now ruling in health. In fact, both of them are terribly dissatisfied and virtually unsatisfactory to see the way out of this stalemate that the health care has fallen into, and hence the patients, or those who need it. If it is taken to be a 65% compensation now, and that was before (although my friend Toma Busetic explained it, it should be pointed out once again) 85% to two months and 95% over two months, and mathematically we proved it very easily the last time that 65%, when it comes to the gross principle, is still much more unfavourable than before 85 and 95%, when it was the net principle of profit calculation, so once again it is those who depend and who have been brought into a very difficult situation. It is indeed high time to approach the adoption of a comprehensive, comprehensive health insurance and health care law, so that those who need it will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19924	The People's MP Đura Lazic has the word, and after him, the MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19925	I would not repeat what fellow MEPs have said about Article 1. The proposal to supplement this law, because it was indeed professionally and reasonably explained all the objections to this part of the bill. I know that the proposer, in his explanation, intended to confirm that these proposals are being made to comply with the Labour Act, and that is why these changes arise. The arguments presented by colleagues only confirm the fact and claim that the Labour Act was quite bad and show that in certain segments it is negatively reflected. Also, one of the reasons was that the reduction of duty, i.e. the reduction of overtime, in accordance with the Labour Act, would allegedly cost health work. I think it's going to be the other way around, because cutting health care workers, doctors, will impose the need for new people's reception, especially in smaller environments. In large centres, cities, where there are a lot of personnel, it will not reflect negatively, but in smaller environments it will also increase costs for this area, because we lack doctors, especially specialists in these smaller environments. A fellow vice-president of the Ljubisa Maravić Assembly has brought out drastic things in the area of health care in Kosovo and Metohija and all that is being prepared by the Cypriot government in Kosovo. It has contributed greatly, I think, to our government and our country's leadership when it urged Serbs to go to the November Shiparian elections. In this way, our government, our leadership, has recognised the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hekerup, despite the Resolution, the Declaration, which was unanimously brought into this assembly, to declare the void of these constitutional frameworks. Now we've come to a matt position. The Kosovo government has been formed and our health care is cut off from the Republic of Serbia, and our government is not responding to this, although it has a lot of rights and obligations under Resolution 1244. If what the Cypriot government is planning is happening in Kosovo and is working on it, then count on a large number of people from Kosovo and Metohija to continue to leave the area, because they know well how they went and what health services they had at the time when the Cypriot health care was at work, before the creation of a single Republic of Serbia. It's a similar situation in the field of education, but we'll talk about it when they're on the agenda of basic and secondary education laws. I would only tell the government's representative, Mr. Vice-President Korać, one appeal from the Coordination Centre, the distinguished doctor, Novice Petrovic and Mr. Samardzic of the Return Coalition, to do everything possible to keep health institutions in northern Mitrovica, central Kosmet, Kosovo Pomoravlje and Strpec. If these institutions are not preserved and preserved in Serbia's health system, then the situation will be even worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19926	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19927	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Maraviæ, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today we are talking, in fact, about the consequences of the "Solan" vote, because all we're talking about here is the consequence of the Labour Act that was brought by a voice from abroad. Also, this looks like we move on to sports, like when in basketball you deliberately hit the ball against the board so it doesn't go through the ring, and then you jump into attack and give the basket, and you write and jump in the attack and the basket. You've written some changes and additions, and then by the new year, you'll write changes and additions again, and then a new law. Then it'll turn out that we've passed a 500 bill during the term of office, and that's out of our minds. You write some amendments to three members, of which, in principle, you give yourself some amendments or, forced by amendments to the MPs, you write your amendments to correct what you did not write well. So, it's illusory to talk about two laws that are out of a few dots, which just harmonize with the law that this assembly didn't actually pass, except that it counts that it's passed, because so far at least in practice it wasn't, you've introduced that paper, that it can be voted from abroad, give your hand away and press the button. So, the illusion is to talk about something that we're harmonising with something that wasn't legally passed, unless the point is that when you make statements, it turns out that we've passed so many laws that this congregation is working as a jeweler, and it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19928	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. He is not present, then the last registered MP, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19929	Ladies and gentlemen, to be brief and clear, the Act of Labour that we have adopted, more precisely which you have adopted or not adopted through some magic tricks, is not good, and therefore this harmonisation of health insurance and health care laws with this Labour Act is not good. So, briefly and clearly, health care as a very important social segment was first under pressure from abroad to our country, but we managed to preserve a high level of health care despite sanctions, wars, bombings, we managed to establish all of our health institutions that were destroyed during the bombing. Unfortunately, we are unable to protect them from DOS authorities. As one example, I have to run out that there were no doctors at the Bureau before I arrived at DOS authorities. I don't know if it's going to stay that way in the future, but the health situation is really getting worse compared to what we had before. As a contribution, I can point out many people who come to the offices of the Socialist Party of Serbia today, because they cannot meet their needs for cytostatics, to provide treatment or to continue treatment at the Military Medical Academy, because of what the Health Insurance Office has disabled further treatment at the VMA. They're trying to somehow get the drugs they need, which they can't get at the pharmacy today. Also in favour of the protection of all those honest health workers, doctors who have given their skills to maintain a high degree of health care for our citizens in all the unfavourable circumstances that existed, I must be sure to advocate that the wheat is really separated from the weeds and to say that for some time already, since I attended the session of the health board, where Mr. Zarko Korać was also vice-president, to appoint those who have committed abuses, let us hear their names and last names, let us see who they are. If they are, tell me, if you have the names and last names of those who wrote on duty, let us name them. There's no need to mix honest healthcare workers with people who aren't fair. Also, the story of corruption in general does not stand, but must be concreteized and I advocate that the really grain be separated from the weeds. I must point out that, on behalf of young people who are today or at the conclusion of medical studies or seeking engagement, I cannot agree with the introduction of practice on supplementary work, indiscriminately, in terms of the fact that there are a number of unemployed doctors, healthcare professionals, and that those who work are allowed to work alongside regular work and extra work, which I don't think is right after all. Therefore, the Labour Act is not good, and these amendments to the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act are not good, and we can only talk about reforms when you provide that level of health care that existed before, so that only when we reach that level of health care are we going to reform the better. So far, your reforms have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19930	The word is from MP Joca Arsic, who has exhausted a list of registered speakers, MPs in the principle debate on health laws. The SPS parliamentary group has 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19931	Dear fellow MPs, since there is very little time left, I would like some attention. These proposals, which are in fact amending and supplementing health care and health insurance laws, have practically made cosmetics in relation to existing laws and what is fundamental is to comply with the Labour Act, and that is already said. There are certain illogicalities here. First, we're going back to the old Labour Act; when it comes to duty, it's completely equal to overtime and duty, which can't possibly be the same, because if we restrict that duty can take up to ten hours a week at the most, what happens to a doctor who goes on duty after the afternoon shift and ends it in the morning, he's practically on duty for two weeks. I think there are certain illogicalities in the proposal, and I think the closest solution proposed by the SPS parliamentary group is that this should be 20 hours a week and that the total takes 80 hours a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19932	People's MP, the MP's group has taken advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19933	I thank you, I haven't been able to say everything I thought, but I have pointed to one illogicality and to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19934	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and MP Zivodarka Dacin, representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19935	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the general decline in the real standard of the largest part of the population, mass unemployment, the problem of ageing and the limited possibility of funding pension funds affect the growing demand for health services and the growing potential for their use. It is therefore necessary to monitor and study the health status of the population, hygiene opportunities and living and work conditions, and then implement comprehensive health care measures. The primary health care provided by health homes also requires local self-government to provide direct assistance to these institutions, in terms of investment and ongoing maintenance of facilities and the supply of medical equipment necessary to improve healthcare. Since local self-government should meet the needs of citizens of their direct interest, and health homes are directly connected to citizens, it is of interest that local communities are materially and technically qualified to provide citizens with maximum levels of health care. Here we have just a positive example of local self-government in Zemun, when radicals were in power and when absolutely all health institutions were renovated and acquired a whole new equipment to provide health services; among other things, when radicals were in power in Zemun, a maternity home that had been out of office for ten years at all, began again, to the satisfaction of the citizens, to function. If prevention is very important, and therefore the function of the health homes, I will present to you an example of early tumour detection. Early cancer can be cured by surgery, while late-detected cancer must be operated and the patient exposed to cytostatic therapy, radiation therapy with prolonged hospital treatment. The treatment cost ratio of the previously detected tumour to the late detection is one to 10,000 monetary units, i.e. It costs so much more to treat a late-discovered tumor, not to mention the outcome of the treatment, just by making a late diagnosis. It is therefore important that people be enlightened in health, so that prevention is much more successful. Health institutions are so organized and territorially distributed that there is a huge difference in the quality of services and the ability to use them. That's why the basic concern about the health condition is the primary concern of the individual, his family, and then the state. Therefore, persons and institutions providing health services should operate on market principles. Then health care will be better quality, and healthcare will be more efficient. But the state only appears in legally prescribed cases, when an individual is not capable or has no means of health care. This is what I have already mentioned in the previous exhibition, that persons over 65 years of age, children, persons exposed to some infectious diseases and how they should be treated free of charge, or all care, regardless of their material condition. Although thanks to DOS, we have a list of 300 drugs, as many as there were on the positive list, there are now 100 medicines. These are medications prescribed on the burden of health insurance funds since 19 October 2001, when DOS came to power. Health insurance organisations should provide guarantees that the health care provided will be charged. The Serbian Radical Party is therefore for competition, as this leads to a decline in the price of health services. Earlier, a private initiative was prevented, but now I fear that with the behaviour of DOS authorities, led by Dr Uroš Jovanovic, deputy health minister from the Democratic Party, who is otherwise a surgeon and works in private practice, state hospitals do not become more inferior in any respect, in relation to private initiative and unfair competition. It is known to all of us that, for example, most gynecologists, besides working in state hospitals, have private offices and spend most of their time there, so there is an objective danger of state hospitals being left without specialists, which and how they mean to Serbian citizens. In all areas of healthcare there must be competition between institutions providing health services, but institutions can only begin their activities after a specialised organisation, which has been transferred to the public health care business, issued a solution that meets the requirements and rules laid down by law. But today is not the situation. In Leskovec 15 days ago, an authorised health inspector banned work due to inadequate permits and equipment, the Emergency Centre of the Health Center. Only after 24 hours did he withdraw a solution to the ban, although the actual state has not changed at all, suggesting that the work of the health centre is being conducted on a political basis, not according to the law and the conditions of work. That is why the Serbian Radical Party advocates that the doctor return to the care of patients, and that the organisation's business and the creation of conditions for the work of the profession be entrusted with some other professions. Prime Minister Djindjic pledged at the beginning of his term that he would decisively stop the drain of our brains. Is it successful - it is sufficient, if you followed the morning show, how many Serbian citizens, our high-ranking intellectuals left the country only in the last period, but apparently DOS authorities do not want to inform the public. A large number of unemployed health workers, under the Serbian Radical Party programme, can resolve the issue of employment through the home doctor's institute; doctors would thus become health guides to the whole family, taking full care of their patients' health. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that all health care investments have absolute tax release, regardless of whether investments are invested in state or private institutions. In this way many spas, rehabilitation centres and highly specialized health care facilities would be attracted to foreign patients because of our famous human potential. It is necessary, as in civilised countries, that medicines should not be issued without a prescription, and therefore without adequate health diagnostics, although this is common practice for us; rigorous control measures should be introduced there. Health care must be such that it does not endanger the health of citizens. Capable and professional healthcare professionals should use their knowledge and do their job, not fear whether they belong to certain political parties, or because of their political inadequacy they will have certain unacceptable conventions. The Health Insurance Act is obvious, and it was recognised by the Deputy Prime Minister, by the Republic Health Insurance Institute, whose director is Dr. Mijat Savic, and his deputy (or adviser) is Dr. Zoran Vesic, brother of Goran Vesic. According to the latest report, the Republic Health Insurance Office has done positive business. Does that mean that insurance and healthcare workers have been damaged, or has health insurance rights been reduced? Of the health insurance funds, 80% go to the personal incomes of employed healthcare workers, and 20% are allocated for material costs. The material costs are: medicines, x-ray films, lab reagents, food for patients, gasoline, spare parts for cars, disinfectants, etc. I ask the question - why were the last three months of the funds paid for the material expenses on two occasions worth 50%, i.e. in three months, only once the amount paid for the material costs is paid. Is it waiting for all the negative proposals of the law to be made before the appointment of the new health minister, and that these lagging assets, which were obliged to be paid in good time, then also show the success of the newly appointed minister to the secretary? It is interesting that Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, who is a dramatist by profession, believes he is the most competent to decide how long the birth should take, and that doctors should work on shifts, because each of the patients, especially when it comes to young children, can be timely informed when their pediatrician is working. Mr. Chedomir's inexperience, especially in contact with small babies and children, gives me the right to know that all parents are too subjective to their children's disease, so that when their child is exposed to a high temperature or, God forbid, a more serious disease, such as an epi attack, certainly have no time, no reason to wait for their pediatrician to be on shift, to apply adequate diagnostics and therapy. I'm going to have to educate him that the average birth lasts for 12 hours, that the firstborn period is much longer, and that, despite the fact that the birth can lead to a well-trained midwife, with the supervision of an orderly obstetrician who is responsible for the outcome of the pregnancy he controlled, I don't recommend to people like Jovanovic that even theoretically considering that they are competent to think about it. Because as the founder of wood gynecology, Dr. Kish, said, "Don't kiretate if you can't operate." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19936	The word is from MP Zivodarka Dacin, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19937	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I am really pleased that in this address there is present and dear, young colleague, Cedomir Jovanovic, and for his sake, and for the sake of all those who are not really on the agenda, and give themselves the right to comment on the concepts and their diversity and specificity that is exclusively related to the health profession, I think you must admit that we, who have spoken here, and we work at least 25 years in health care, are much more competent to discuss the subject that is on the agenda today. Also, I'd say that we should make it our work to make everything that's right better. The recommendation that we leave our party books in our purses, ladies or ladies, and the MPs in their bags, can't really stand, because I responsibly say that all of us health workers in this assembly have agreed and reached a consensus on the problems that are clearly present in the work of health institutions. You know, it's very easy to give a flat rate -- it's limited working time to healthcare professionals at 10 o'clock a week and 40 a month, so please gentlemen directors, gentlemen health care workers, redistribute, while ensuring continued health care in both primary and secondary, as well as in tertiary institutions. However, you need to understand something. In the last election, you received, I say, the absolute trust of the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens were obviously not satisfied with what the previous government was doing. But how pleased he will be with what the current government is doing - it will show time. Because, simply, and what belonged to them, you, as such, are abolishing. The best judgment on everything that's done and what's done will give us time and our patients on this matter, and that's roughly all Serbian citizens, so let's leave it to them to give the final word. I'd say that the stumbling block here is actually from this story of one bad labour law, which, I say, none of the professional, competent people from the health profession were involved. That could've been ignored. It could have been the first -- to do all the laws, is it now popular to say -- reform, but it's obvious that there's something that needs to be done in the field of health care and health insurance, so then we'd all be actively involved and warned about what the rigid consequences of the Labour Act can be by health care and patients, which is the most important thing. Now, it's clear that this is just a alignment with the Labour Act, and who says that this Labour Act is valid? He's showing himself, here on this first case, like a law that doesn't meet what's expected. You know, it happened again that the Labour Act and all these situations were made by people sitting in big centres and looking at or not the problems that big institutions and hospitals have, clinical centres, and it's certain that there are probably extra employees of health professions somewhere, and, of course, I could say, some other professions. However, since you are the government, your obligation will be, above all, to perform the proper health network of all institutions and institutions. Secondly, to record the pathology of the field, as far as the disease and the patient is concerned, to record the number of employees and to determine how many employees to be. You know, it's all easy to say, but it's hard to make laws that will be able to reconcile all this without patient suffering. Remember, we are here for the patients and for the citizens of Serbia and as health workers and as MPs. It's going to be a great responsibility to say, because it's definitely true, that our primary health care is disabled in professional staff, in doctors of general practice, dentists, pharmacists and so forth, and that maybe there's a surplus specialist. It will be difficult to say that one department in one hospital, whether in Belgrade or in the interior, has a higher surgeon, intern, gynecologist, pediatrician, and that after 20 years of specialist training, one of them should go to the hospital of general practice of the village or city, to eventually cover the patients, because there is the highest frequency there, without endangering the situation at the station, or as far as the patients are concerned, or about the staff. Or, to say the least, that's definitely a phenomenon in the interior, that there's an extra dentist in the dental field, who, of course, is increasingly committed to private practice and that someone after 20 years of specialist work needs to go to the hospital general practice of dentistry. It's not like that anyway, and I think it would be very difficult to direct, only to rule certain decrees or not to know how, someone who's in excess to go inland to work, to provide permanent health care for all patients. These are all the problems that all of us here are very well-intentioned, aware of the fact that much cannot be changed, but indeed, from one of the most positive wishes to go to the benefit of the patients. Let us not forget - they are the most important to us, and all citizens of Serbia are our patients, because the birth, and unfortunately the other end, ends mainly where the whole life runs; it is always about health care, health insurance and everything else. Definitely, we from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group have submitted several amendments to the wish that, if nothing else (because it is the government's justification that it cannot, because it is not in accordance with the Labour Act, and it is absolutely clear to us), we would like to encourage the agenda of this assembly to come up with a proposal on amendments to the Labour Act, so that what has already been proven in practice has been avoided and corrected. You know, there's the impression that we're turning into a really inhuman society, where people with their soul, their heart, and finally our emotions, are not needed, but robots. Let's not do that and not lose what's fundamentally, which, first of all, each of us, as a quality of man, should possess. Once again, just to clarify - the Socialist Party Group of Serbia will vote against these two amendments and additions, not because it is not aware that this is a alignment with the Labour Act, but because of the fact that there are strong arguments in favour of being able to change the least and to benefit our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19938	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19939	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the citizens of Serbia are our concern and that we must think of them as patients who deserve the best health care. This is not a topic that other questions should be raised about. But since they are open, this debate will not end without us, as the DOS parliamentary group, saying that the citizens of Serbia have been someone's guinea pigs for the past 10 years, not patients. And that Serbia, along with them, in those 10 years, has been destroyed, and that you, as a parliamentary group of SPS, as people in power, as a parliamentary group of SRS, as people in power, were then silent. You have silenced one Milovan Bojić, one Leposava Milicevic has been silenced, one Tomislav Jankovic has been silenced, you have failed the malversions at the Institute of Oncology, the malversions with cytostatics intended to treat children, you have failed everything that has destroyed this society, not only in the segment of health, but in everything that health has followed. We can discuss the current situation, and I suggest that in these discussions we put the party book aside, because when you go to the doctor, you don't go with the party book. If it ever worked out, you can't go any more today. It goes with a health book, which is worth exactly what this company is worth today. We're not satisfied with that, and we want to change that. We are taking on the kind of responsibility that follows the failure of the Ministry of Health because it does not have a minister at the moment; it is clear why there is no minister, it was our fault and we should bear and pay a full price for that kind of policy we have made. But we cannot remain silent in front of all those indicators that clearly, at the moment, tell us that Serbia does not have the means to pay 300 medicines and thus burden the Health Insurance Fund, when it is clear that no state in transition pays more than 100 medicines. The World Health Organization standard is 100 medicines on the list of mandatory medicines. We had 300. Of those 300, we didn't provide 30, but that's why people who provided Serbian health after October 5th ended up in prisons for embezzling funds and for failing to subdue their interest to the interests of citizens, on whose behalf they allegedly had implemented the policy they had implemented. So when we talk about these amendments to the health insurance and health insurance laws, we're talking about amendments to the Labour Act. There's been a lot of talk here about this law. The divisions that were present in parliament are clear. But we're still behind that law. Serbia cannot be changed with respect to those laws that have led it to the state in which it is located. If we want to talk about health care, we can talk about its technological imperfections, its complete excellency, its human excess. Look at what the Medical Faculty looks like, look at what this country we live in, the country where Milovan Bojic reached the Academy of Sciences, without any published work, without any surgery. He could have been an academic of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts only on the basis of the malfeasances he made, the malfeasance you allowed him to work. Look where the other people are. The iron broom, which cleaned up Serbian health, did not clean it on the basis of party membership, and it would not be good to bid here now with the names of the people who stayed on their functions; it was only cleaned on the basis of a lack of respect for the law and robbery. The robbery was most pronounced at the Institute of Oncology, in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, at the Cardiovascular Hospital of Dedinje, in Kamenica, in Kragujevac, in Novi Sad, at the National Front, and Ratko Krsmanovic, your coalition partner, was employed at the Dedinje hospital. Find one DOS MP who's getting paid today at Dedinje Hospital or anywhere else. Find an example that you can identify with what's been going on in this country for 10 years. Do not honor us all that we must do as something that we do with cold heads and mercilessly. We are aware of the problems these changes will cause in some situations, and therefore we have left the possibility that, unless it is possible to organise a different work, we organize work with respect for this overtime. But where there is a possibility, it will be done. Because this country has to do something like that to one day be able to give citizens who come to the hospital what they deserve. We will uphold this law. I urge you once again to consider first and foremost what you have left as a result of your decade of rule in this country. I'm not saying you wanted to do it at all times, but these are the consequences of your concrete work or turning your head aside. And silence is sometimes giving consent. You kept your mouth shut in front of all of them. We're not asking you to keep your mouth shut today, but we're asking you to speak the language of the fact, to tell us where two billion marks are, which we can find today, which are left behind as the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund, the responsibility that we're trying to settle. Where that money is located, where else, to pay for 300 medicines; where there are money to pay doctors for overtime; where are those funds that will be renovated by the Health Centre in Leskovec. Someone was building a train station in Leskovac, but he didn't take care of the Health Center. A year ago, a Kragujevac, in which an X-ray functioned in the 19th century, ran out of x-rays. But this clinical center in Kragujevac was run by a senior SPS official, not DOS or DS. These are the results of your specific work. Health reform is needed. The health reform must be attended by everyone, it must be implemented very carefully and the final word must be given by natural health workers. This isn't a health reform. Health reform has been prevented, among other things by our political error, as we have agreed to sacrifice Serbian healthcare for some allegedly higher political goals over a year. It is something that will have its own consensus and a clear real political price that we will also pay, but also those who have set us up with such a health minister; a health minister who is more struggling for his apartment he entered than for Serbian health for a year, how much he worked in that post. The Health Insurance Fund returned in 90% of its debt to healthcare insurance providers who received compensation over the 60th day of their stay. It's 90% back. The price of the drug has been broken, the supply has been improved, and is that enough? No, but it's only a year's worth of real changes. These countries have been destroyed for 10 years, and you've been setting up a bill for your mistakes after a year and you say you've done a little bit; you're calling a contest; you're organizing humanitarian actions for Tirshova; so of course we're organizing. We're asking people who have to help us because we don't have any anymore, but you didn't do it, you're where they didn't find it for themselves. In the oncology you found funds for yourself, you found in the Red Flag institutions funds from the Solidarity Fund for yourself, at the university you found funds for yourself, for the best students of the Medical Faculty there is no place in asistinian positions today because they were divided in the past 10 years. We can talk about specific names, but look at the results of the commission organised at the Ministry of Education, which controlled the diplomas that were assigned there, the control of the calling and the titles that were distributed there. These people today need to decide someone's life and death, people who got a degree based on a party book. We will not agree to such a kind of policy and will be very happy to engage in a debate on amendments, with a desire to accept that kind of amendment that will reduce that pain that follows the application of this law. But unless this law is implemented, Serbia will only continue to fail. And if we have to choose between the silence that's closer to you or the telling of the truth and the fighting for something better, we choose this second and therefore we don't allow you to talk to us that way. It's true that I'm not an expert in childbirth, but I know very well that those people who deal with this business must have the best working conditions and that's our duty. The way to the best conditions is this time that we chose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19940	The right to replicat first comes from MP Goran Cvetanovic, as representative of the parliamentary group in relation to the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and from MP Zivodarka Dacin. Right on line, Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really apologize to all Serbian citizens for what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, because he said Serbian citizens were patients and had been guinea pigs before. I mean, on behalf of all MPs, I owe the citizens of Serbia an apology for what was said. A lot of things are said, I don't know why the SRS was mentioned, because at no function, we didn't have a representative of the SRS at any of the directors' posts, so even if there were malfeasances, and I'm not getting into it, certainly the SRS isn't responsible, it can't and it doesn't want to have any consequences for that. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic mentioned the Leskovac Health Center, I don't know how much he was directed, but unfortunately there instead of investing in machines, ultrasound, in the scanner, there are over 80,000 marks, and some say 160,000 marks, I don't really know, and for 80,000 marks I'm sure, it's been invested to make health center doors to sensors at the official entrance. If you think that right now, at a time like this, you need to make low ceilings and make an emergency center, and that the same doctors who have been on duty so far, with cardiology, orthopedics and surgery, must be present all the time, so in function, absolutely nothing has been done, no movement, then obviously you have no good information. You said and admitted that the current government had no more money, obviously because of that anxiety entered your ranks, you promised six billion dollars, big investment projects, start production, and obviously there's nothing. I'm sorry that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is referring to some threats, I don't know who, whether personally or all of you, apparently Serbian radicals are not afraid of anyone, not one Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm just asking, which is why Chief VMA declared yesterday that the mob was behind him. Which, and any mafia, you probably know a lot better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19942	The word has a folk MP, Živodarka Dacin, a replica to the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, followed by MP Srdjan Petrovic, as representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19943	It's probably life experience and work experience that keeps the peace of mind. That's very important. I think Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said something he shouldn't have combined in any way, which is that the patients were guinea pigs. Please, let's not replace the thesis, at the time of the ten-year rule of the Socialists, at the time of the sanctions, at the time when we had a large number of refugees, when we really didn't have the money, a health care service was provided, I must say, as far as it could have been. I didn't say that you think that this is something that's good now, at least on average, if it's not minimal, and now that there's no sanctions, since there's no such thing, we expect you as the ruling majority to do something more positive. At that time, we did not limit the disease to 65% gross, but there were 85%, and 95% and all that is now being abolished by these laws. Please, we should definitely separate the names of the people you mentioned here, Mr. Jovanovic, they were never members of the SPS; and come on, let's get it over with. You didn't mention her, I'm talking about the names you said. Let's not talk about what's happened in the last ten years. For a year and a half, you've been in power and indeed, as a man who carries positive energy, I don't want to take part in this discussion of the subject. Let us keep in mind only the patients and citizens of Serbia. Let's all work on the good of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19944	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group, replicating the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19945	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I regret to address the government's representative, but not Mr. Koraq, but the government's spokesman. Here we have heard all the problems the government has had in the last six months, since there has been no health minister in the Serbian government. I don't know if these problems were conditioned by the DSS withdrawing its minister and bringing up problems in the work of the government, or whether these are the problems of lack of political will to reach the Minister of Health. Now we have a situation to discuss changes in these two laws, which concern health. Only at further points of the agenda will we discuss the Law on Ministrys, which will allow, at least so we hear, to fill the place of Minister of Health. We don't know what's more urgent, whether it's more urgent or not. Obviously, there has not yet been some kind of political compromise within the parties of the rest of the DOS, which they call DOS. I'm sure that's why we don't have a health minister. Until then, the Minister of Health is Mr. Obren Joksimovic, and for this reason he uses what is used as his minister of health and belongs to him. Surely, now that we have had a day-long accident of the Ministry Act, after which the change of ministers, or the completion of the Ministry of Health, Mr Joksimovic would return what does not belong to him, but belongs to the state of Serbia. So that thing will work itself out. If this is a major problem for the government, then the Ministry Act should have been the 2nd or 3rd item of the agenda. I don't think this thing's gonna work out, and I don't see any reason for so much fear and confession from government members and their spokesmans. This thing's gonna pass, and I think it's gonna end well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19946	I am concluding a joint principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and we are moving to a decision on the draft laws in principle. First, I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act in principle. For 133, against 53, the abstentions were not voted 19, out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Secondly, I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, in principle. For 131 against 52, the abstentions were not voted 20 out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. The National Assembly will carry out a separate search on all draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out, which have been accepted in principle, in particular on laws and votes in general. We move on to a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, in particular. (SINGING) ) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milan Stankovic and Rajko Baralić; Toma Busetic and Milan Stankovic; Toma Busetic and Arsen Kurjački. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee on the examination of the bill, in principle. The Legislative Committee did not submit a report on the amendments submitted on the draft law. I remind you that, according to Article 160(5), and in accordance with Article 136(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without a report from the Legislative Committee or to set a new deadline within which the Legislative Committee is obliged to do so. I ask that the National Assembly decide to consider the draft law in particular without a report from the Legislative Committee on table amendments, and with reports from the Government and the Committee on Health and Family. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in particular without a report from the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. For 103, against 46, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority to consider the draft law in particular without a report from the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly, having concluded a common principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act has been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Bushetic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment requesting that this article 4 be deleted. It's about Chan 33, and it's about the second position that needs to be deleted under the bill of law. That position of Article 233. The Health Insurance Act reads: "If the temporary prevention of work is due to injury to work or occupational illness, the income compensation belongs to the insurance company from the first day of that period and for the whole time of its duration." In the explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that these are persons who remain jobless and will be covered by other types of protection of unemployed persons, and will be covered by different forms of social programmes. I don't think attitude 2 in this article should be deleted. I simply think it's humane that people who have a professional illness and experience an injury to work to continue to care for the Health Insurance Department. Yet it is a republican body that has the most money, and every other solution, and the transfer of rights to another institution, creates great uncertainty. And if it's some social programs, it's very hard to say that these social programs will cover everything, including the rights of these faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19948	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac says the government does not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. For 32, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 50 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Stankovic and Rajko Baralic. The Health and Family Committee has accepted this amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19949	Mrs. Komic, a colleague of Dr. Milan Stankovic and I thank the Committee on Health and Family who accepted the amendment we offered. We're sorry the government didn't do it, but I believe the National Assembly will do it now. Article 10 of the amended Act reads: "The remuneration provided by the Office in the cases referred to in Article 30 of this Act shall be 65% of the basics for compensation and shall not be lower than the minimum earnings established under the law". Now, exclusively from attitude 1, there are cases where that's not the case. The legislator foresees it to be a work injury and a professional illness, voluntary tissue and organs and maintenance of pregnancy. My colleague Stankovic and I suggest adding, among the exceptions, point 4 to "no sick child". A large number of us had the opportunity to work, and he is now working with a large number of colleagues, who, during the raising of their children, had an opportunity under the earlier law, and also on the basis of one understanding that was assumed by the management of the company in which they were employed, that whenever a child is sick, they have the right to be absent from work. Since we can no longer base anything on default, it is our duty to deal with this issue by law. I think it deserves our attention that the Members of the People's Parliament, our esteemed colleagues, make a positive statement on this amendment submitted by my colleague Stankovic and I. So I ask you to make a good correction to the proposed legal solution and accept the amendment that the two of us have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19950	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Goran Cvetanovic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19951	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments submitted by MPs Dr Milan Stankovic and Rajko Baralic really have a purpose. It is evident that if there is already an exception to injury to work and a professional disease, which is absolutely realistic, that there is also voluntary giving of tissues and organs; lately you have heard that illegal organ trafficking has started in Serbia, let's say that the kidney is worth about 100,000 marks on the illegal market, so unfortunately, these things have been happening lately that people are in a position to trade their organs because of some of their material inability. If it's under the third point of "preservation of pregnancy" and we fight all the time to get the woman pregnant to the end and that child when she's born is healthy, it's logical to be a fourth point, and that's "no sick child". If disease occurs because of various etiological, genetic predisposition or other reasons, then it is necessary, in any case, to enable the care of a sick child. First of all, in medicine he is known so-called. Placebo effect. This is when you give the patient a medicine that, in fact, has no fact, but the patient is not aware of it or does not know it, and because of this psychogenic effect, she feels that this medicine makes him much better, so that according to this placebo effect, especially when little children are concerned, the closeness of parents next to the child and that it will affect the course and outcome of the disease to be more positive and to make therapy more adequate and faster, so that the child becomes a healthy citizen of our country. In any case, no abuse has yet been recorded that parents are taking sick leave to nurse their children if the child is not really sick. At least that's the case I haven't heard of, so the MPs of the SRS will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19952	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19953	I will respond to the MPs who have proposed this amendment, above all because the committee supported their proposal, out of respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Health Committee. First, healthcare professionals know well that this has never been otherwise regulated throughout the past period and they are, in practice, seeking a new right. Unfortunately, there is another coming, and that is that there are no material opportunities in the Republic Fund for this extended right to be achieved in this way. Of course, this does not mean that in some future, with a better and richer budget of the Republic of Serbia, such rights will not be extended. But at this point, these are material realities. So we can't oblige the Republic Institute to pay off what we know in advance that it won't be able to pay off. I have to say openly now that in the previous period, I don't mean the previous year, we just had this practice that the Republic Institute didn't pay what it was supposed to pay for because it didn't have the material possibilities. Even in the previous period, this wasn't regulated differently but now, so these kids up to three years old. I suppose you'll accept that at this moment, the government can, creating a new economic situation, promise citizens what it can't actually meet. So, in some future, I personally hope that this kind of right can be realized this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19954	The word has been passed by MP Zivodarka Dacin, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19955	Dear fellow Members of the People, I certainly cannot ignore the fact that all these restrictions are being done precisely because the missing funds are also in the Republic Health Insurance and Ministry of Health, although I am sure there is a solution. The motive for this amendment by the SPS MPs is that very sincere concern for children and family, and God forbid all our children are healthy. I'm not sure this would be any significant imposition on the Republic Fund if they accepted this amendment. That is why I ask you once again, I appeal to all MPs, bearing in mind that a consensus has been reached, and to the Health and Family Committee, that you vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19956	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. For 56, against 76, two abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. A representative of the government declares that the government does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, as the applicant for the amendment to Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19957	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that this member be deleted. I know it's very difficult to do, because this is simply adapting to the provisions of the Labour Act, but I'm taking the opportunity to point out all the perilousness of the Labour Act. Our Labour Act is much worse than the European Labour Act. A few weeks ago, there was a mass protest in Italy due to a change in only one member, three million people were in Rome; and this law is worse. There is one more thing I want to say to the president of the parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic. The strict application of IMF rules, World Banks and other international organisations on our field is not a good solution. It's all around us. The Prime Minister said a few days ago that Romania, Bulgaria, are hopeless, but said Serbia would not experience that fate. It certainly will. Our policy must be open to Europe and the world, but something like Slovenia, where domestic production and national banks have not been shut down. We are going that way, so I believe that this strict respect for all that imposes on the IMF, the World Bank will lead to devastating consequences everywhere, on every ground and in every country, and in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19958	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19959	I'd like to answer what we deleted from the old law, and here we have a proposal to keep it. I think what the government has proposed is more favourable for the citizens of Serbia, because it is quite simple to say -- according to the earlier bill of law, those who had less employment had less compensation than those who had more employment. We have now made an amendment that all citizens of Serbia, regardless of the length of the internship, have equal compensation. Personally, it sounds fairer to me as a man and to use one perhaps unusual word, more normal. Because it's a little weird that when people are sick, they don't get the same thing, but one who has less internships gets less compensation. The disease is a disease and apparently the state has to help the working man equally. So what I did before was not logical, and in this case the solution is in favour of the citizens of Serbia and that is why we did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19960	The word has been made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Tomo Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19961	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not about the standards of the IMF or the World Bank, but about the World Health Organization, and I told you that. It's a much wider organisation than the IMF and the World Bank. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, there is no European labour law. There is Italian, there is German, there is Slovenian, and we can talk about examples of Slovenia; but don't forget the facts described by Slovenia, it's a state that has a 15-fold social product with two million inhabitants than Serbia. And don't forget the facts that describe Italy; it's a country that has a 3.5% unemployment rate, and we have 46%. So based on these facts, perhaps the most concrete result of the rule we have faced and the problems we are trying to solve is the one that we are facing. We have put an end to the Labour Act and despite all your expectations, workers have protested, but not in Belgrade, but in Rome.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19962	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment on Article 13 for a vote and I am asking the MPs to make a statement. For 29, against 104. There are no abstentions, no vote 38, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milan Stankovic. The Health and Family Committee and the Government have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Milan Stankovic, as the applicant for the amendment to Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19963	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in front of the SPS Group of fellow Members Toma Busetic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. I don't need to say that the greatest mortality is practically among the most socially endangered citizens. All social rights have been practically reduced over the past months through various laws. They were reduced when they retired, in case they were fired, in case of childcare, etc. When a socially endangered family occurs even in a fatal accident, it is practically an accident. We have submitted an amendment to Article 17, which requires that a percentage of 50 be replaced by a percentage of 100, just for the reasons mentioned, to help the socially endangered population, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19964	The word is from MP Goran Cvetanovic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 17 is indeed adequate, because we ourselves know that citizens have reached the lower threshold of social endurance. Unfortunately, I don't know if the most endangered population has the highest mortality rate, but it's evident that the birth rate is much reduced. If we take any small environment, let's say the Grill, where you have 20,000 inhabitants, last year 256 people died and only 172 babies were born. Just because two of the most important moments of birth and death are in everyone’s life, it is necessary in this social situation to help a family who is bereaved and who is already sad enough, at least materially. Two amendments have been made to this Article 17. In one amendment, it is proposed to be 100%, meaning to meet these families, the second amendment 70%, so I really ask that at least one of these two amendments be adopted, and I would ask the chairman to establish a quorum before voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19966	Why are you looking for a quorum and on what grounds? I ask MP Goran Cvetanovic to establish the basis for which he seeks to determine the quorum. I find that the MP has not submitted an orderly proposal to determine the quorum. The word has been passed by MP Zivodarka Dacin, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19967	Dear fellow Members of the People, I think that there really is a real basis for accepting this amendment, since the proposal in the law to make it 50% of the salary at the republican level, and since it is about 10,880 dinars according to the latest data, means funeral costs -- which is as simple as death is an integral part of life and immortality, which sooner or later each family -- at this point would be about 5,440 dinars or about 5,500 dinars. In view of the very low standard of our families' lives and the fact that the funeral costs are approximately impossible, or rarely when they reach less than 30,000 dinars, we have a sincere desire to at least show our humanity and understanding at these times. Look, there's a later draft of the law, and it's said -- if death happens outside the funeral site, 75% will be compensated; so that would be about 8,000; and only anyone would get compensation from 10,880 dinars, God forbid someone dies outside our country's borders. Is that even compatible? I do not see that it would significantly improve the material situation of the family's failure to adopt this amendment, but simply, it is something that is truly possible and acceptable. I therefore ask all MPs present in the National Assembly to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19968	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment on Article 17 for a vote and I am asking the MPs to declare themselves. For 32, against 76, abstentions 14, 30 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. And the last amendment is an amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people Arsen the Qur'an.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19969	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, my amendment is similar to the amendment of my predecessors, but I will try to explain it a little bit more, and I may be able to convince you that this amendment should be adopted. We are a society in which many of our citizens, because of their lack of wealth, deny and most basic needs -- proper nutrition, health care, adequate clothing and everything that should belong to us in normal society. What men will not give up at any cost, it is a worthy funeral for their most born. This decent funeral, unfortunately, today represents an extremely high cost for the average man. This cost he cannot settle from regular incomes, so he often owes or even sells something of property, so that he can honor all that is required of him. For example, in order to know what size it is, I'll tell you that the funeral costs at the cemetery are between 10,000 and 15,000 dinars, depending on the place, the size of the city and the municipality, with the demands of public utility companies, which are already standing, for a large collection. The cost of funeral equipment costs from 15,000 to 20,000 dinars. The cost of unspeakable society, music if the deceased is an atheist man cannot just put himself in the ground and that nothing happens, or the cost of religious escorting if the deceased is a believer, amounting to between 3,000 and 5,000 dinars. The other part, which no one counts for, and is also very burdensome for the house budget, is a matter of reputation, a matter of respect for the house and the deceased, how many people will come to you after the funeral, that is, the anniversary of death. We know very well what it looks like and what it unfortunately turns into. These costs are also below DEM 1,000-1,500. One of the greatest shames in our people is to remain in debt for the funeral. That's what nobody's gonna let themselves be by the other one to shit on your grandmother. No one allowed it, under any circumstances. So, all these costs, which rarely anyone can avoid, especially some cult funeral customs with our people, fall very hard on our people. Not to be pretentious, but because of the funeral of grandparents, grandkids often remain fruitless, without shoes, without books, until these costs are settled. That someone may condemn, like some primitiveism, may look at it one way or another, but that's how it is today with us, and for a long, long time, it will certainly be so. So far, the Health Insurance Office has provided about 8,000 dinars on behalf of the municipality to the municipality, all of these costs, expenses, but in principle, that amount has been spinning. Now, this bill stipulates that the amount is reduced by about 5,000 dinars. ( I wasn’t counting correctly, it would be about that amount, which is the principle of harmonising the calculation of gross earnings, as explained. ) Did the people, who spent their entire working life on health insurance, at least deserve to be helped by the state to be properly buried, if we already know how they've been treated these past 10 years and what the state of health is, we've heard that in previous discussions. What is the item in the balance sheet of the expenditure of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, we can determine from "The Report on Financial Business of the Republic Institute for Health Insurance for 2001". In this paragraph, "expensions", as referred to in point 17. "the cost of funeral expenses for 2001," the rate of participation is 0.63%. It's the cost of the funeral at the expense of the Bureau. Because of the application of the "gross principle", in 2001 these costs were 0.78%. The comparisons are planned for 3.18% under item 4. So here's 0.63%, and here's 3.18%. With all the respect for the problem of teeth and the provision of dental services, it can still be a little bit prolonged and solved in a different way. The problem of dead relatives can only be solved by a funeral (if someone wants to say it's a cremation, and that's the kind of funeral), and in a very short time, a given - two of these "problems" have to be solved. So the problem of the funeral, among other things, arises because no one likes to think about it or talk about it until it happens. And then, these are the problems I'm talking about right now. Therefore, I urge all MPs to think seriously about this and decide that this percentage, or the amount of aid that is being refunded at the death of a health insurance company, is not to be reduced, so that we should leave it the way it has been so far. I told you who they were. We're not going to burden ourselves with the expenses of the Department of Security, and you can be sure that we're going to help people in this situation a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19970	There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19971	You heard a colleague who explained the amendment. I'm really surprised that DOS has a very strange logic and that it really handled some strange principles. When it came to the first child, they were guided by the fact that every family tends to have that first child, so they don't need to stimulate that first child. Now it's obvious DOS is run by some other logic, that everyone who died, he was buried, so you don't need to help those families. Obviously, that logic is not adequate, so I suggest that such an amendment be adopted, if it couldn't be 100%, at least 80% to help those families. Please, under Article 95, determine the quorum. I suffer from asstigmatism, I have poor vision, but I suppose you see visually that there are not enough MPs in the Assembly room, and your duty should be done as you should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19972	I hope the MP will improve his eyesight since we share the disease. Article 95 says the president of the National Assembly interrupts work when it determines the lack of quorum. That first attitude is the basis for which you answer. Do you allow the address of the government's representative on this amendment, so let's determine the quorum. The People's MP is in agreement. ) Thank you, Mr. Zarko Korac, has a representative of the government, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19973	We also have a synchronization here, i.e. from net to gross. However, of course, I understand Mr. Kuryacki, the amount he specified is the amount for Novi Sad. The average income in Novi Sad is higher, and this is about the average for all Serbia. Of course, it's not the same income in Novi Sad and income, for example. in the White Palace. There are poorer and richer parts of our country. What is interesting, and people here have repeatedly called for European practice, it is precisely an observation by the World Health Organization that in most of the health insurance laws of their members this does not appear as the original law of the Health Insurance Act, but it is a communal obligation. Indeed, there are richer regions and countries in Europe where the environment, the city, the community provides these funds, up to the full amount of one average, depending on the decision. So, we actually turned the situation around here and still kept what's some decades of practice with us. I agree with those MPs who said that from the point of view of some customs and what people would like would be a good thing for them to make up for it. But here again, the same problem arises, in principle, and any next government, given the times that have come, will have to promise citizens only what they will actually be able to do. And to promise what cannot be paid, which cannot be compensated, is not good from the perspective of our country's future. We're going to have to live in economic categories and now I'm only talking about economic categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19974	I ask the MPs to, as proposed by MP Goran Cvetanovic, establish a quorum for work. Here you go. I remind the Members of Parliament that the electronic system has established a seat on which the MP and the card to be placed in the parliamentary unit is seated, so I would really ask all the Members of Parliament present to fulfil the obligation of the Rules of Procedure and to place their card in the MP's unit. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 80, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Having just completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the proposal's representative, Prof. Dr. Zarko Korac, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? No, I don't. ) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act as a whole. For 112, against 15, the abstentions were not voted by three, of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Today's work of the Assembly will continue to be searched in particular in the second health law after the break, at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to continue our work. We continue to discuss the 5th item of the agenda, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Predrag Mijailović, Mihajlo Jagodić and Dragoljub Vojnović; Branislav Blažić and Goran Cvetanović; Milan Stankovic and Toma Busetic and Predrag Canovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly, following the completion of the joint principled search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act was also discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Predrag Mijailovic, Mihajlo Jagodic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19976	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 9th Democratic Party of Serbia have tabled an amendment. The essence of this amendment is that duty and overtime are not the same categories of work. An explanation of the decision of the Legislative Committee, i.e. the Government, not to accept this amendment, is that it does not comply with the Labour Act. It is true that it does not comply with the Labour Act. But at the same time, I stress - this amendment is in line with a sick man and it protects a sick man. Otherwise, if this amendment is not adopted, a sick man will be damaged, so I ask, is it more important that it is in accordance with the Labour Act or is he a more important sick man? In addition, when the Labour Law was adopted, the proposer of the law said in Article 38 that this problem would be resolved in the Health Protection Act. Why aren't we working this out now? Is it because of some principle or some spite? I think there's only one way to lead the stubborn way through a sick man. I wouldn't repeat what overtime means. It's just that it's a stay after a certain time of work, if there's not a round of work, in fact, so-called. a complete medical procedure, whether it's an operational procedure, whether it's an endoscopic examination or something. Therefore, our duty begins at 1400 hours and lasts until 7:00 in the morning. That claim that there is a so-called world. The shift work isn't right. The world is working from 9:00 to 6:00 p.m., there are two hours of breaks, so 7 hours is normal working hours. I note that it's European working time and that's how all the companies do it, and that's what we do from 7:00 to 1400 hours. Please, it's 6:00 to 9:00 in the morning. This is done in this way in the world, i.e. by keeping on the watch, and what is best; it is so - called. preparedness, so that the younger doctor stays in the ward, while the specialist, just in case, in the range of, say, telephone, can quickly come and intervene. We're not so rich we're looking for more preparedness. Overtime work and duty are the most difficult and bloodiest part of the job and no one here can claim that we want to do it for money, because simply a team that is reduced to one doctor or two nurses the most takes over all the obligations and difficulties that will arise during duty. So, gentlemen of the Parliament, who thinks he's easy to call, let him come with me or some other doctor, spend one night in a health care facility, he'll figure out what it is. The objective of this amendment, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not to make money. The objective of the amendment is to organise the work of a health institution in our country in the only way possible. The prescribed article 44, in terms of the form of Article 99(4), reads - that overtime and duty may take 10 hours. What if we say, and most often in children's wards, we have three doctors. They'll be on duty one week at a time, and what about those five days, or the other four days, who'll cover it. Next, even if we had seven doctors, did any of these doctors have the right to get sick, to go to professional training, on vacation. It is clear from our doctors that we are only using two weeks and four of our vacation seasons in July and August, and we can use three or four of them on the condition that we find a colleague who wants to replace us. It's adapting, it's selling health for a patient. Therefore, gentlemen of the People, I appeal to you, not for the sake of the doctor, but for the sick man, to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19977	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word is by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19978	The proposed amendment is good. The Serbian Radical Party will vote in favour of the amendment, among other things, because the SRS parliamentary group has proposed a similar amendment, only our amendment has one more position. In the government's explanation for why this amendment is not accepted, it is said that, as overtime, it can be introduced at night, on days of national holiday and on Sundays, the proposed solution in Article 1 of Article 4. The bill that can't last more than 10 hours a week per employee, we find appropriate, because the alleged solution for many years has been present in practice. If the government has been constantly pushing for reforms, and if it points out that there have been some irregularities in earlier work, which is true, I see no reason for the existing solution, which was wrong, to continue. So, in any case, it's necessary to change that solution. The reasons for the change are multiple. The reason for the amendment of Article 9a of Article 1(1) is that there is a need to comply with the provisions of Article 37(1). The labour law, which regulates - that at the request of the employer, an employer is required to work longer than full-time in case of force majeure, sudden increase in the volume of work, and in other cases when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned. It's overtime. It is clear that duty in healthcare institutions does not represent overtime in this regard, but rather a special type of overtime, which is necessary and common in health institutions and as such must be regulated specifically by law. This team before the problems with the basics and the level of remuneration of employees for duty, i.e. the free-day compensation, were created in current health practice. Just because surgeons are doing hard work, and they don't have an underprivileged job, that's what healthcare professionals aren't looking for, at least these provisions need to change the upcoming solutions. Healthcare professionals who have only 12 hours of rest between two consecutive days and hours spent on duty should enter the monthly working hours fund, because under the Labour Act, the provisions of Articles 34, 37 and 39 are scheduled to enter the hours of work. Such solutions have been denied healthcare workers who are on duty, since those hours they spend at work are not allocated to pension funds. That's why health care professionals are at risk here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19979	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word is by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19980	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should be adopted in order to preserve and preserve the process of working in health institutions and how citizens, these end-users, would not suffer. We do not think that the adoption of this amendment would greatly damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which the needs and salaries of health workers are financed. And we will also take action to maintain the quality of such not excessively large health care of our citizens and the quality of the services they now enjoy, which may be proportionate to the economic moment in which our country is located. We think it would be good to adopt this amendment. Unless it passes, we as DSS will vote in favour of amendments to those parliamentary groups that go in the same direction and that follow our amendment. Only the truth works, I would like to give one of the information mentioned in the morning section, that Mr Joksimovic is still in the apartment. Mr. Joksimovic moved out of an apartment that he won for use by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's an apartment that's slightly less than 30 square meters. Unlike Mr Joksimovic, who moved out of that apartment, some others moved into villas on Dedinj. I think it's something the public should be informed about, so if we're already talking about it, then we need to know full information that he's guilty of the only thing that didn't go to the villa on Dedinj, or to a three-bedroom apartment, but in a 23-square garage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19981	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19982	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not deal here with the housing problems of either Mr. Joksimovic or all those you mention in the halls. It's about the wrong interpretation of what I said. First of all, I do not think it is the DSS's exclusive guilt over the results and effects of the work of the resolute minister, Mr Joksimovic. I think we are equally responsible for this, because despite the health workers' protests, despite the facts that followed Mr Joksimovic's choice, which described the emphasis on this candidacy as a breakdown and within the DSS itself, agreed to something like that. I only said it would be much more useful if that man had used the energy used in defending his apartment to defend healthcare workers' rights for a different organisation of health care in Serbia. I think he has a lot of right to live and, at the same time, has a lot of right to enjoy all those status ones, I wouldn't say the privileges, but the norms that follow that kind of calling. Serbian ministers, the country's presidents, the government's presidents, while doing their job, must respect the norms of civilized political life. These standards also oblige us to, among other things, the kind of behavior that Mr Joksimovic did not resort to, but he said enough about himself. I don't think this debate should go that way. If you forget what kind of man it is, I remind you to look back a year and see what the members of your party said about him, what Mrs. Kostic said about him, what your Health Committee said about him, who didn't propose him, and, finally, look what his health colleagues think of him. There is no man who supports such a kind of policy. A voice from the O.R.: That's our stuff. ) It is true that these are our things and should be resolved within our coalition, not in this way, because it is a common shame. (Dejan Mihajlov: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19983	You're the one who caused the replica. A parliamentary group is mentioned, and it has been misread. [[Dejan Mihajlov: He had no right to replication, no mention of it.]] Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 90, against 71, with six abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Blazic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. A representative of the Government does not accept this amendment. The word has been given by MP Branislav Blažić, submitr of the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19984	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 1. However, what characterizes this discussion so far shows that an attempt to politicise this problem has been made. I would especially like to say that this politicization has been tried by those people who aren't in health care. I'm sure the health workers, who spoke in these two days, didn't want the politicization of health care. To go out for this pay phone and say that there used to be politicization, and today there isn't, how some party books used to go to the doctor, and today they go to health books, I think it's a cheap demagogue and it doesn't answer the real truth. There's been politics before, and there's politics today. Therefore, it is an evil in health care that should be eradicated, in any case. Until it's done, it's hard to find new travels for some health problems. What we wanted to help in this situation, not looking at any party programmes or some cheap political demagogy, is a desire to point to a problem that is evident, that this will be a very big problem to organise a health care service, especially in some hospital services, such as surgery, anesthesia, for the simple reason that we do not have enough perpetrators and that will put the problem of whether we will be able to ensure the adequate permanentity of health care and the level that we have so far. It's a simple explanation. It's not about any desire for any profession to manifest itself dominantly over the others. It wasn't a wish, as someone here said, that Serbia was being threatened. It is unfortunate that someone here says that Serbia is being threatened, and that it will be kept on duty in services that are otherwise unable to do so. Gentlemen, call it what you want. Whether you call it duty, whether you call it overtime, is the essence of whether we are able or whether we want to provide a permanent level of health care. It's not politicisation, for the simple reason that the opposition should be happy to accept such a law, because the government that does so tomorrow in the elections in front of its voters should explain and say - we did it or so, and then voters will evaluate. It's the essence of a pre-election campaign, to say -- they promised us permanent health care, and they lifted our duty or preparedness. Here in the first article it is clear that even Saturday is lifted. Gentlemen, Saturday is gone. It is not mentioned whether it is on alert, on duty, and not mentioned in regular work. Only Sundays and national holidays are mentioned on duty. What about Saturday, who's gonna work Saturday? Did you think about what, for example, on the surgical team, one must be prepared at home? Mathematically, simply speaking, in some areas it's not feasible. It's not about wanting it in every place. He'll be able to do it somewhere. Where he can, maybe he can support himself. But you have an environment where you won't be able to do it. It's clearly something that needs to be ruled out. In our amendment, which is very similar to this previous one, we offer only very simple solutions, which should provide exactly what is the essence of the desire in health care, which is the permanence and level of health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19985	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19986	Dear People's MP, as far as your question is concerned, why Saturday turned out, I have to admit that I have that question, and I'm going to ask it to the Ministry of Labour. I think you're right, so it's Saturday and Sunday weekend. That's why it surprises me, too. You asked the speaker that question, and so will I. It takes one change, later, to show up on Saturday. It's not clear to me either. The weekend is Saturday and Sunday. A week cannot be set aside, even when economic reasons are taken. I respect your arguments and arguments by a number of healthcare professionals that there are really health institutions in which certain problems will arise in this kind of work organisation. But we have to be honest and say that there are many more institutions in Serbia where there is a possible organisation of work, primarily in the opinion of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the professional public, since there are still enough employees, not to use the weightier word, sometimes the excess staff, who can realise it. The fact is that here, in fact, it limits the right to stay on duty and compensation for duty; that a different organisation of work in the institution is trying to dissipate the budget, i.e. the health fund for duty, but it also provides adequate protection for the health of citizens; therefore, no one wants to put this at risk to the protection of citizens' health. I have to say, since a number of these amendments and a number of your reactions are largely consistent with the letter sent to me by the Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals' Union -- it's practically the only union where only doctors and pharmacists -- and I even recognize, which is quite correct, in some performances and their views. There's a much more serious problem, that the Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals Union forgets that the Labour Convention does not allow this organization to work. When a man is on duty and finished, he'd have to have 15 hours apart and that's just the Labour Convention, signed by all the unions, and that's what they're fighting for in the world. Here, paradoxically, it is proposed that health care alone is not subject to it and that healthcare professionals do it in a way that physically tires them out. It's possible it's in favor of patients, but it's unfavourable for them as humans, and it's also at some point the quality of work. I'm going to stay with what the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection has answered, but I'm going to ask myself if there's a possibility of reviewing, that Saturday shows up, and I think you're right. It's a possible change. Secondly, I'm quite sure that we try first to see if this mode of change works and if it doesn't work, so does this congregation exist, there are health workers, and of course, then I'm pretty sure it's going to get away with it. I think this is the correct answer to your questions. In other words, this is one attempt to organize health care in another way. No one here is talking about that there is a part of the professional public who believes that in a number of health institutions there are extra people who are not on duty, such as the fact that out of 15 doctors often only five always on duty and ten never on duty; you know well, and other healthcare professionals, that there are a lot of problems. So this is one proposal that tries to solve small financial opportunities, and keeps what you want -- protection of citizens' health.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19987	The word is issued by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19988	Of course, this amendment will be supported, it is in line with that of our previous amendment, and I think that Mr. Korac's explanation, Deputy Prime Minister, has given us the full right to submit this amendment and I think that this amendment should be supported at the next vote. I also believe that the previous amendment did not receive support because it has those whose cards were inserted, and they are not in the room and that they suddenly appeared at the vote. Take the fifth row, there are four MPs, and there are seven cards. Now, whether they're sitting in front or behind, we don't know who's sitting there, but simply the monitor is saying that, and that's maybe one of the reasons why the amendment didn't go through then. The fact is that you violated the Rules of Procedure when you gave the word to Mr Jovanovic because he had no right to reply, because he was not mentioned in the previous discussion. Mr Joksimovic, mentioned, is the fact that he has caused a lot of controversy, as well as that the Democratic Party of Serbia is fully behind him and is responsible for his work, because it has proposed him. If the only thing that could be against him, in his work that he was in an apartment of 23 square meters, the garrisoniers, then that man more than successfully did his job and more than successfully protected health care, warned of the illegalities that existed, and that's the man who prepared it in June last year....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19989	Mr. Michael, please return to the agenda. You've been given a word on the amendment, so we don't get into any more of these party problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19990	Mrs. Micic, you gave Mr. Jovanovic the right to the replica when he had no right to do so and here he made a series of incorrect claims about Mr. Joksimovic, who simply can't stay like this, go on the air, because Mr. Joksimovic prepared a package of health reform laws last year; these are the laws we are supplementing now, were on the government as drafts; if we are talking about health and health problems we have in health today, we need to see whether or not he had support from the government in which he worked and whether or not he had the support when the colleagues of the government and the government were making completely different conclusions, which were signed by people who even sat here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19991	Mr. Michael, you first challenged the replica by not talking about the subject, not talking about the amendment, so I gave you my word, and that's why I gave you the replica. Right on the replica Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19992	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is another characteristic example of ignorance, which is one of the dominant features of the party you represent, Mr. Mihajlov. You were not present during the afternoon debate when I spoke, and at least my intention was to introduce in our controversy an evaluation of Mr Joksimovic's work, especially to solve his housing problems; nor did we do so. So, we can hardly explain to healthcare professionals all the messages that came from the resolution ministry during the period in which Mr Joksimovic led him. What is up to us is that through the reform of this segment of our society, we correct all the harmful consequences that have been inherited and which have been possibly increased. This amendment, which was proposed, was partly acceptable to us, but it is not precisely formulated and therefore cannot be supported. I fully agree with the initiative to define overtime for Saturday, but we cannot support this amendment in that part of it that requires the introduction of overtime during the night, because there is no categorization and no circumstances under which this work can be introduced during the night. If there were this categorization, if we knew in which cases it could be done and if it were normably precisely arranged, we would support such a thing. At this point, no, but if there are new corrections in the meantime, we are prepared to put that into our session by emergency procedure and correct that kind of illogicality. It is important to say that we in health care have a sufficient number of workers, a sufficient number of doctors who can accompany these changes and that only with additional efforts should we reorganise. But let's at least try, at least try to step up a problem that's serious and that we don't want to talk about by hiding our heads in the sand. These problems cannot be solved, nor will they be solved without our willingness to face them. There's a lot of support coming from the world, there's a lot of credit, there's a lot of donations, but this society can't live through such a form of donating and covering its material and financial needs. We have to do something ourselves, and this is the kind of try. If the Health Committee accurately formulates situations where overtime is introduced as a category to be covered by the Ministry of Health, or the Health Insurance Fund during the night, in situations where there are not enough doctors in health institutions, because they exist, we will support such a thing. But we can't because of one health institution, we're sure there are, introduce a principle that would then be applied to the Serbian Clinical Center, which employs 7,000 people, and look at how many people are on duty. These are serious problems and we're trying to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19993	National MP Goran Cvetanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that the amendment of the SRS has been positively accepted and that the Vice-President of the Republic Government has declared that it is precisely the reason for the amendment of Article 9a of position 2 that there is a need to comply with Article 39(1). The law on the work of the Republic of Serbia, which reads that the working week lasts five working days. I came forward, given that the problem of exposing the president of the DOS parliamentary group was precisely the part that refers to the fact that nighttime duty is being introduced at night, in the days of national holidays, on Saturdays and Sundays, since the period of time relating to nighttime work has just been potentiated, to biharming what is evident, which is that night work is really the hardest work, that even scientifically proven that during the time period between 24.00 and 0.02 hours sleep most intensely, man is the most relaxed and relaxing. If one of the health workers is working precisely during that time period, it means that he gives the most energy, invests much more than others, so it is precisely specified that it is night work, that this is and how significant and that this amendment of the SRS should therefore be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19995	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 79, against 73, with four abstentions, did not vote 34, out of 190. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Stankovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19996	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Toma Busetic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. We have proposed amendments to paragraph 1, in point 2 and in point 4. In point 1, we suggested that the words "putting in shifts, redistribution of working hours, or" be deleted. In practice, in this way we tried to prevent the employer from introducing work in shifts in health institutions, in which it is impossible to work and do work in such a way. In attitude 2, we also suggested for duty, for reasons that explained colleagues before me, I will not repeat what they said, we consider the afternoon work, not just nighttime work. Nighttime work is a special category, and we consider the afternoon work on duty, for the reason that in the afternoons a very small number, a very small number of employees remain in health care institutions, than it is in the morning hours, so that the team that works the afternoon has a larger number of jobs than it is in the morning hours and therefore has to pay in a special way. In Section 4, we suggested that overtime could take more than 10 hours a week. So we suggested that it be 20 hours, for all the reasons my predecessors spoke of. I suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19997	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Zivodarka Dacin, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19998	I must express my satisfaction that, after two days of debate, we have come to a fact-finding state, where it has been recognised that overtime and night duty cannot be put under the same conditions. I would just like to explain what is definitely the only one of the proposed changes, which is that, by harmonising with the Labour Act, overtime is limited to 10 hours a week, or 40 hours a month, again to one specific situation. The organisation of health centres services, such as Kikinda, where I come from, and there are more in Serbia, has problems in primary health care. When I was talking about 20 hours, I was only thinking about the possibility of the director that, as he has done so far, he's hiring after full-time doctors during the day, specialists to cover the hospital's general practices of the city and the village, so that we don't deprive our patients of the service. In this case, if there's another employer in front of the home of health, then it's absolutely allowed by that supplemental work, and that's all clear, but the problem is when one employer is. It's definitely impossible here, for example, with two hours a day to cover the hospital's general practice. I really do, and I think that we should certainly analyse all specificities, give at least some flexibility and the possibility that this number of overtime hours in the week will increase, to leave the Director, of course, at the same time the responsibility to direct it to the Ministry, so that some exception can be made in the environments where it is really impossible to organise, with arguments, to allow a part of the budget to be allocated and to pay more than 10 hours a week. In view of all this, until we get to some other changes and additions, which will benefit patients and health workers, I really appeal to all of you to accept the amendment submitted by the SPS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u19999	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment proposed has already been discussed over a long period of time and you know, most parliamentary groups, on shifts and on shift work. It is obvious that SRS MPs agree not to be a shifter in health services, and it is true that certain health institutions are specific, especially in smaller areas, where such work is much harder to develop in shifts. We've been pointing all the time to the negativity of all this. If the government remains rigid in those views, they will obviously make a mistake, but ultimately, it is up to them to decide on it. In Article 2, where the word "day" is introduced behind the words, it is precisely the period of afternoon work, because in the morning the intensity of working with patients is appropriate, but in the afternoon it certainly does not differ a bit from working with patients, but it is mostly even bigger, especially for individual professions and specializations, such as orthopedics and surgery. In item four, the word "ten" is replaced by the word "twenty." We also have an amendment from counterpart Predrag Canovic, who suggested 15%. This is where the SRS differs. She doesn't agree with either 10 or 20%. She thinks that's exactly what doesn't have to be limited at all, that it's really specific. I've already explained surgical operations, surgical teams that are on the team, births that last for at least 12 hours at a time, which is why the SRS suggests there's no need to limit the number of hours at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20001	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 91, against 82, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There is a word from the People's Messenger Dusan Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20002	Madam Chairman, I find that Mr Cole Kovacevic of the League for the Shumadi is not in the hall, I ask that his presence be determined and then applied to Article 117, which says: "For the MP who uses the identification card of another MP, otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was carried out will be annulled, and immediately access to identification and revote." Since Mr Kovacevic is now entering the O.R. as some other MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20003	And he stood at the door and listened while you were talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20004	I'd like to ask you to take a list and determine the actual results of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20005	Here you are, right on the line, MP Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20006	I don't have any special replicas, except to show I'm here. Sir, I was outside the door, and the fact that the electronic system didn't record that I took out the card, it wasn't my fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20007	I will annul the amendment vote on Article 1 submitted jointly by MPs Milan Stankovic and Toma Busetic, and it is known that the electronic system can continue to identify an outsider. So I ask the People's Parliaments to re-enact ourselves on this amendment. For 82, against 81, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment and I ask the MPs, do you have a proposal again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20008	Ms. Micic, by repeating the vote, you have admitted the fact that the previous vote was not valid and that there has been an abuse of the electronic system, so I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure to the end, not half the position of Article 117, or to suggest, as it says here, a measure of distance from the sitting, or to express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20009	I reiterated the vote, because you expressed your suspicion, and while you were speaking, I saw, standing at the door of the People's MP Kovacevic. Secondly, you know, you know, the fact that I can't control the electronic system in that sense is that when the cards are drawn slowly, the identification remains. I am sorry that MPs who are not often present, then rare occasions when they come, use now to make this and ask the service to deliver me a list, and on the document we have a place where they sit. Since it's from this session, we'll determine exactly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal, is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20010	Mrs. Micic, you just realized that Mr. Kovacevic was entering the O.R. at the time of the vote. The first position of Article 117 says, "The MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit and checking out when leaving the hall." So he wasn't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20011	I realized the man was standing at the door while you were talking at the pay phone. He didn't vote? I've got a list, he hasn't voted. And secondly, Mr Ilic, when we are already teaching the Rules of Procedure, Article 97: "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the President of the National Assembly immediately." So, you have no right, you can make a proposal as a MP, but you have no right to advertise an injury, only the president of a parliamentary group can do it. And you have any suggestions? Please, MP Aleksandar Vukic has a proposal for the Rules of Procedure, but not to be an injury, but a proposal. So it's not an injury, it's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20012	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to, and I'd like you to remind those who are rude, to respect the elemental order, and those who think they can do something about what they were throwing at, they can come out of the O.R., and I'll follow them right away, so they can show me. There's something I don't see that they're running to get out, it seems they're not as brave as they like to get. I have a proposal regarding Article 117, which is that, Mrs Micic, since in public, and outside of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are constantly making some suggestions on where, how and how the money you took from the SRS should be spent, and given the fact that this is not the first time today that the Rules of Procedure is severely injured, I have one good proposal. Namely, I will point out first how the Rules of Procedure is violated, and then what is my proposal and ask you to put it to a vote and from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept it. Today, I told Democratic Party MP Tomislav Panajotovic that he had removed the card of Cedomir Jovanovic who had been out and was away for more than an hour, and the card indicated that he was present in the hall. It is marked in such a way that it did not vote, and it does not matter whether it was a vote or not, but I am telling you this because of the following fact: because someone will say the next day by the representatives of the "Resist" or some other organisation, as Cedomir Jovanovic is the most present of the heads of parliament groups, and he is actually present with his card, not him. Therefore, in order not to come to such a kind of delusion, because of such an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure as was done just before in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and because of the difficult state of the hospital in Tirshovo, the Oncological Institute, because of the need to assist various associations, so as not to take money from only the MPs of the SRS, and I think they like it, that they have no objection to the assistance of these institutions and MPs of the DOS, give them those measures that you are in charge of the Rules of Procedure to give them. And not only do you use it to steal money from the peoples of the SRS, and then you're generous with the money of the SRS, and you're generously saying that there's humanity at work, so you're giving it to these institutions. You don't give it to them, you take it to the MPs of the SRS. We don't mind that it goes to these institutions, but take it to DOS MPs, especially when they violate the Rules of Procedure in such a harsh and obvious way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20013	You advertised the breach of article 117, and you had a proposal to give the measure of distance? (Alekdandar Vukic, from the scene: to transfer the money to the Oncological Institute.) ) First, read Article 117. So, MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the O.R., and the MP was in the O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit or checking out when leaving the O.R. He wasn't sitting, but he was in the O.R. Secondly, I can give you a copy showing Ambassador Branislav Kovacevic, 13th row on the left, seat 9th, did not vote. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: But he participated in the quorum. He didn't vote. Here you go. He was in the O.R. What's the problem? He was in the O.R. next to security. Therefore, there is no basis to express the measure you have proposed. We move on to Article 1. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The Health and Family Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20014	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that an amendment to the Soviet Parliament group, which, by the way, was adopted by the Health and Family Committee, which provides for the introduction of 15 hours of overtime per week per employee, instead of 10 hours, as foreseen by this draft law. In view of the specificity of the work, and given the need to provide continuous, continuous health care, we believe that this is a much more comprehensive and adequate solution than the solution proposed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20015	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Goran Cvetanovic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20016	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised by Dr. Predrag Canovic's procedure, which is being misbehaved. For amendments proposed by other parliamentary groups, which are absolutely similar to what they propose, he does not vote. Then he officially goes out for a pay phone and asks for the same vote. It is obvious that things are constantly happening, as before, that the Soviets or the People's MPs of that party whenever a law needs to pass they do not vote, and when it is irrelevant, then they are then the opposition, or acting opposition. It is high time for Serbian citizens to vote clearly and clearly, to vote in favour of all government laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20017	Replica, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished gentleman who had just come out, came out because he was advised by someone who had been Deputy Prime Minister for two and a half years, and someone, ladies and gentlemen, who had ruined health care. Imagine, they're proposing amendments now, and they've been in power for two and a half years to do something. The SSJ is an autonomous party, will always vote in favour of those amendments it considers useful, that such amendments will improve the law and that such amendments will help both healthcare professionals and users of services. We won't go out all the time when we're called by this political party, which has been in power for two and a half years, but the citizens have recognized what they're doing it for. Because their members, their committees come to the USSR and because they no longer believe what that party they were in is talking about, but they trust one party that takes care of the citizens and the party that keeps their word. Not about a party that says during the government that will leave the government, so it leaves the government during the war when the SRJ was bombed, and then blackmails that same government to get eight apartments to return to the government. Yes, it is, ladies and gentlemen, it is. They now call the SS and don't know what they're going to do, so they mention the name of Professor Pelevic, how he's not a professor. That's why the doctor of the SRS is only for the fraud of the Serbian people, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20019	Replica, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20020	I thought only DOS was going into the campaign, but here goes the little touch. We are accused here of crime by Dragan Markovic - Palma, who was named the country's best entrepreneur the year he delivered 150,000 tons of coal. As the only uncut exclusive military lifeant. At a time when the military fought against the NATO Pact. He's accusing us of passing committees and members into his party. So let me give advice to those who join that party at all. More of your members died in the armed clashes on the streets than during the NATO bombing. So let me give advice to all Serbian citizens: you were formed by Slobodan Milosevic to take the votes of the SRS. More than once, you and your bosses put a sock on your head than I ever did. I don't know why he puts a sock on his head. Let me give you another piece of advice, Mr. Markovic, friendlyly, don't vote for me anymore, so I lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20021	Replica, now as an individual, MP Dragan Markovic. It's just like a parliamentary group. You use it every time. Now I have given Goran Cvetanović a radical party, an individual challenging Markovic, and to you, just a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been a merchant for 20 years, unlike Mr. Nikolic. I don't think it's illegal to trade goods, and that's why I paid taxes. I haven't supplied an army in the last four years, for your information. You, Mr. Nikolic, are criticizing the health care (Mr. Šabiæ leave Mr. Nikolic to hear) and, Mr. Nikolic, I went to the hospital, to the KBC in Kragujevac, went to the surgical ward - there was no tiles anywhere. You took those tiles and took them to the apartment, shame on you, Mr. Nikolic. That, ladies and gentlemen, is so little for you that you took the tiles, but you also did the taps, that you're not ashamed. What are you talking about, Mr. Nikolic? Mr. Nikolic, is there a small indication that I have received more votes from you in your Kragujevac? You got 5.5% as a host, and you call me a criminal. I got 9.5% of the votes in Kragujevac. Are you a councilman, Tomislav Nikolic? You're not. And you went to the election, Tomislav Nikolic. I am a councilman, Tomislav Nikolic, 95% of the votes I won in the committee elections. But remember, for you people will never vote again, only if you move to a city, you go to Vojvodina, and there you trick some small municipality to vote for you. But here, they don't give it to you either. [[Sagar.]] They don't give it to you either. I recommend you, your time has passed, stop dealing with politics, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20023	He has the right to the replica Tomislav Nikolic, as a National MP, if you will, can use it. (Tomislav Nikolic started coming out of the O.R. () You can, as an individual, as I have given him, mean as a National MP, not in front of a parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20024	I must confess that I have no right to a replica and I consider this to be the president of the National Assembly assessing what is right for him. It would be very ugly if the two political parties were to face a pay phone like this. But this is where one political party and one gang clash, so... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I warn you of Article 101, to take care of yourself. )......................................................................................................... I don't feel at all affected by what's going on in the National Assembly. It was time for someone to tell you who it was, how he got into parliament and how he got the votes. The survey committee on the murder of Minister Pavlovic Bulatovic, whose composition was representatives of all political parties represented in the federal parliament, received statements -- that you were personally introduced by the UDB into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this election. She only introduced you this time and never again. If the arrest warrants are collected after you in all European countries, there is significant information that you have actually defiled the reputation of Serbs abroad by giving a party, formed by the UDB, of criminals, the name of the Party of Serbian Unity. And when it was meant to stand up to your boss at the time he was strongest, it was only the Serbian Radical Party. You've always been used to intimidate opponents of the current regime. This time Djindjic uses you to intimidate Serbian radicals. Are you sure you're up to it, Mr. Dragan Markovicu-Palma? And there's only one thing I'll never be able to forgive any decent people who sit next to you in a group of MPs. Whenever I say criminals, let them know what the SPS and the JUL passed two or three months ago to you, I don't mean them. I mean these originals that have been with you since day one. On these, which are...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20025	Mr. Nikolic, I've already warned you of article 101. I give you a second warning because of the insult you've inflicted on the MP's group. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20026	And I wonder where I got the right to a replica, and that was a warning call. I don't forget what Zeljko Raznatovic-Arkan did to the other side of the Danube and Drina, and I never said a bad word to him. But for what you did here in Serbia, you can never be forgiven. After all, your teacher tried to be a candidate for Montenegro's president in due time (President: Time. But it wasn't just that he had an apartment in Budva that helped him. It was necessary to meet some other conditions, especially to obtain confirmation that he was not under investigation or not convicted, which he had never been able to secure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20027	Not to be confused, just to tell you, I have given one and the other MP groups the right to reply, the heads of the parliamentary groups one by one for the parliamentary groups, and one by one as MPs for personal insults. Both Dragan Markovic and Tomislav Nikolic. This is where we close the circle of replicas. The word is from MP Zivodarka Dacin, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, on the subject of an amendment submitted by MP Predrag Canovic to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20028	Dear fellow Members of the people, indeed, as a man, I am saddened by this fact that political passions have overcome my mind, where patients have been neglected above all, as well as health workers, and in the name of all of them we speak here for two days. I would really like to ask you to be reasonable and tell you that the SPS will vote in favour of the amendment of counterpart Canovic, because our condition was 20 hours, and now it's 15 hours. The Health Committee and the family of the Serbian Parliament have accepted this amendment and we, as the SPS parliamentary group, think it would still be a half-step towards a better solution. That is why I again appeal to all MPs to vote and accept the amendment of counterpart Canovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20029	You have no right to a replica. (He speaks to the Messenger Wolf. It's nothing offensive, she just urged everyone to take care of the subject, that it's health care. I don't see anything offensive about it. You have no right to a replica. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 81, with four abstentions, 14 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Predrag Mijailovic, Mihalo Jagodic and Dragoljub Vojnovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure? And you're not even the president, you're not the deputy parliamentary group. You have a suggestion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be nice if he would give me a heads-up right now, I came up with a proposal, after you just broke the Rules of Procedure, that you allowed the worst possible insults, even some people who didn't finish four classes of elementary school, to be brought up here, but I won't talk about it. That story is over. Anyway, there's something else I'd like to tell you. It's interesting that you didn't think to give a warning, say a single word, and when they were answered, not with so much noise and approval, after hitting on their DOS benches, you gave a warning to Tomislav Nikolic. I repeat once again, I have a proposal for you, Madam President, since you have this kind of... To me, you're the president of the National Assembly. I didn't hear there was a function of the president of the National Assembly. Maybe you'll bring it in. I wouldn't be surprised. I still don't belong to that circle of yours that will accept anything that comes to your mind. So, I ask you to accept my idea and my proposal from earlier, and this proposal is that you are not just kidnapping the MPs of the SRS and then boasting about how human you are. Do it, here comes the representatives of the government, all those who, in one way or another, support, take the money and tell them that you are human in action, how you will do something for the people, how you do it voluntarily, and not just by taking away the MPs of the SRS. By the way, what you're going to do, and I see, a lot of people are looking forward to taking away, so Tomislav Nikolic, and what he's got under the law, is now selling it, because you took it away from him. But don't worry, he'll survive, too. Like this kidnapping in the congregation, as well as those who need families to support and do not receive salaries, sheets and everything else, because you take them here, don't worry. We'll survive. And we'll survive getting kicked out of the party rooms. And under the tents we'll survive, but we'll beat you and then we'll charge you all, all together, be safe. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20031	Mr. Wolfie, I agree with you now, and I accept your suggestion. Indeed, I will not punish any Members of the Serbian Radical Party who respect the Rules of Procedure. You have now come forward to make a proposal - according to the Rules of Procedure; you have used, you have misused a pay phone and used a straight line. And that would be the same... (Employer Wolf is insolent.) ..... And it would be possible to apply the Rules of Procedure and give you a measure, but, well, I'm tolerance, so I'm not. Parliamentarians Predrag Mijailovic, Mihajlo Jagodic and Dragoljub Vojinovic submitted together to the 2nd amendment. [[Sagar.]] The Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. At the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, MPs Predrag Mijailovic and Dragoljub Vojinovic withdrew the amendment. I ask MP Michael Jagodic if he remains with his amendment? It's pulling the amendment. I find that the MPs have withdrawn the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, me and my colleagues from the DSS have withdrawn this amendment because the issue of volunteering and working, which is not provided for by the Labour Act, is regulated by another law. Please, somehow, it seems to me that whenever we start discussing health care, something comes up that this House doesn't look like Parliament. Please choose a second chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20033	I have already determined that the amendment to Article 2 has been withdrawn. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Stankovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Toma Bushetic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dr. Stankovic and I have suggested that volunteer work be paid. Of course, there's not enough resources. That's some explanation. It is not good for some health organizations to pay for volunteer work, and some health organizations or institutions do not pay for volunteer work. What's wrong with both of these laws, it's exactly that alignment with the Labour Act. We socialists are in the same position today - the labour law is catastrophic. Representatives of the International Labour Organisation, Vice-President Bronstein, said the law is not worthy of Serbia, as countries with democratic fluids. The fact that the workers, when the law was passed, didn't go to the streets and that we didn't have Rome, we don't want unrest in the SPS, but the fact is one: who's running the unions today? All unions are government. The head of one is Smiljanic, who was the candidate of the Together Coalition in 1996. The second is Canak, who participated together with DOS in the conquest of power. The third union is controlled by Minister Milovanovic. So that's a clear thing. What we insist on is that we must not strictly apply the rules of various international organisations. For example, only 20% of the unemployed in Argentina, and with an average salary of $500, there was a wave of dissatisfaction. For what? It is precisely because of the application of these models of international organisations, market economy models and the participation of foreign banks. That is why we say that we should be careful when it comes to the demands of various international organisations. As far as this amendment is concerned, he can retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20035	I find that MP Toma Bushetic has withdrawn the amendment. Does MP Milan Stankovic withdraw the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bratislav Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20036	Just for a little while. Mr. Bushettic, maybe it's true that all three unions aren't under the control of the SPS, they're not, and that's lucky for this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20037	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20038	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for a year and a half, this people has had time to see for themselves their happiness and to fulfill their faith in the DOS coalition and the DOS regime. One of the characteristics of the DOS coalition and DOS regime is that the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, with such a pompous title, has DOS MP and DOS minister. I'm giving you independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-10-0.u20039	Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, in general. 93, against 45, no abstentions, did not vote 42, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. As we approach the end of our working hours, I suggest we take a break and consider the sixth item of the agenda - the bill on university - we continue tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 158 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Miomir Tadic, Zaharija Trnavcevic, Momcilo Trajkovic, Ratimir Svirčević, Teodora Vlahović, Milka Marinković, Miroslav Markicevic, Melank Shandor, Dragan Kovacevic, Zoran Bošković, Višnja Nežić, Vladan Jovičić, Natasa Milojevic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Petar Misic and (before noon) Neda Arnerić. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a UNIVERSITY LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Velimir Simonović, Dragisa Popović, Jakov Stamenković, Dragisa Popović and Anita Beretić, together Dragoslav Bošković and Stanko Kovačević, Mirko Rosić, together Nenad Lemajić, Milan Radulović, Bojana Janić, Dragoljubović and Vladimir Andrić, Predrag Stojanović, Predrag Čanović, Zalđa Mirčić, Gordjana Pop-Laživić, Tomislav Veljić, Zlatović, Miroslav Veljković, Vladimir Dobrosavljević and Igor Soldatović, Milorad Mirčić, Gorda Pop-Lažanović, Dragažanović, Tomišar Niković, Radović, Žalnadić, Žalnadović, Žalnadović, Žalnadić Žalkodić Žović and Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žović. At the meeting of the Committee on Education of the Amendment, the MPs withdrew: Zeljo Huric to members 2 and 5, Predrag Stojanović to members 39, 64, 65 and 111, Dragisa Popovic to members 69 and 74, Miroslav Christodulo to member 103 and together MPs Nenad Lemajić, Milan Radulović, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojinović and Vladimir Andric to members 69 and 74. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on International Relations, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction on the amendments submitted. Members of the Committee, MPs Vladimir Garčević and Bora Stanimirovic, singled out. Members of the Committee, MPs Pal Shandor and Dragisa Djokovic, set out at the session of the Committee on International Relations of Opinions. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a principled search. Does Professor Gašo Knezevic, Minister of Education, want a word? Here you go.
