ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 190 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. Before we move to the agenda, I remind you that on today, a year ago, Parliament was established in this session and I congratulate you on your first anniversary of successful work. Let me, for this matter, remind ourselves briefly of the results of our one-year work. In this period, the National Assembly held 15 sessions for a total period of 95 days. In addition to the constitutional session, six regular sessions of 63 days and eight extraordinary meetings of 31 days were held. The National Assembly considered 90 points of the agenda and adopted 129 acts; 48 laws, 81 sublaws (decision, resolution, etc.).). The proposals for acts discussed by the National Assembly were accompanied by 2,984 amendments, which were discussed by committees in charge. I want and expect this National Assembly to work even more efficiently in the coming period and to achieve even better results in its work on the welfare of all of us. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Miomir Tadic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Radomir Naumov, Jelena Milenković, Ratimir Svirčević, Srdjan Sikimić and (before noon) Dragan Jocic. I hereby inform the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Secretary of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, acting as the mandated representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted a bill laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is provided for the 2nd session agenda. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" to this session. You were presented the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 22, 24, 30 and 31 October, 5, 6, 7, 8, 19, 20, 21, 22, 26, 27 and 28 November and 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17 December 2001. Is there any objection to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 22, 24, 30 and 31 October, 5, 6, 7, 8, 19, 20, 21, 22, 26, 27 and 28 November, and 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17 December 2001. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 146, no one, abstentioned one, voted 52, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opening of this session, a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was committed. Last year, in an extraordinary session, we asked for the minutes to be adopted from the previous session, and then the position of the National Assembly was, in accordance with Articles 163 to 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I must confess, which also regulates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to work in an extraordinary session, on the predetermined agenda delivered by the authorised caller of the extraordinary session. We have been given the agenda for this extraordinary session and in that agenda it does not say that we will adopt the minutes from previous sessions. In that agenda, it doesn't say that we will have the right to parliamentary questions. You are Mrs. Micic, starting to adopt the minutes, although it is not in the agenda. I could accept that, but if that's the principle and you'll never give it up again. Now I ask you: since you are putting in the jobs that the National Assembly is doing normally at sessions, did you foresee that we have the right to ask parliamentary questions at the end of this session, although they are not foreseen in the meeting delivered to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the authorising officer of the agenda for the extraordinary session? I only ask that the National Assembly, once and finally, adopt the principles on which it will work. If the Constitution has not seen the difference between the extraordinary and regular session, except for the agenda that must be established in advance and which is not declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then there is no adoption of the minutes and no parliamentary questions at that extraordinary session until today. If you think it's necessary for emergency sessions to be adopted, then we must also have the right to parliamentary questions. I'm inclined to accept that today's record cannot be adopted from previous sessions. After all, we spent the entire regular session without the adoption of the minutes from the previous session and were never ready for adoption. (President: Time. ) You accepted that as a fact and did not occur to you to stop with the session, to delay it for a few hours until the record arrived. In such conditions, when there is no adoption of the minutes from the regular session at an emergency session, it does not seem too logical to adopt minutes that were not on the agenda at an emergency session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16317	Mr. Nikolic, the adoption of the minutes was never the point of the agenda, nor in previous councils, when you were also a MP. Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say: "The minutes of the previous session of the National Assembly are adopted before the establishment of the agenda". As regards the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall apply at an extraordinary meeting, if the provisions of this Chapter are not otherwise specified." As far as the minutes are concerned, it is not different. As far as parliamentary matters are concerned, you have article 165: "In the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, parliamentary questions can only be asked if the motion for an extraordinary session has provided for it in its request." Of course, it's not supposed to. So there will be no parliamentary questions at this meeting. Are you happy with my answer or should I put it to a vote? Silence means approval. So you're satisfied. You were presented the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 20, 21, 26 and 27 December 2001. Does he have any objections to this record? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at that session, the president of the National Assembly used the authority to confiscate the right of all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party by making it impossible for its representatives to speak of a bill that was extremely important for the Republic of Serbia. Although we have provided you with documents during the session to determine the rights of representatives of the parliamentary group, deputy president of the parliamentary group, you have ignored these rights and in the record you do not realize that my word has been taken from me even though I have spoken the truth after this speaker. That truth was confirmed by the media after me, and I can see that you believe the media today very much. That truth was confirmed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, when its representatives in Zrenjanin said that Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov, after a tour of the trihinosis sufferers, went to the pub from the infected area, got well-injected and got well drunk. (President: Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning about the infringement in Article 101, and on the basis of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because facts are forbidden from the private life of others. I don't even know what Mr. Vesenov's doing in private, I read the paper. That was in the paper, Mrs. Micic, and you could probably read it. It was the same day that I noticed this phenomenon with Mr. Vesenov in the front row, and when the Prime Minister then pushed him out of the National Assembly session, so he wouldn't embarrass him here with his behavior. You took away my word then. This is why you're giving me a warning today. Mrs. Micic, it's just proof of how little tact and measure and how little knowledge of human nature you run sessions of the National Assembly. Mrs. Micic, I would ask you to have the same attitude towards all MPs, each MP's group. I allow myself, and I will never object to anyone coming out here for a pay phone and objecting to what I do at a session and even what I do in my private life. But don't use the opportunity to warn and take away words, deny the opposition's MPs the right to criticise the government's behaviour and individual ministers in the assembly. If I told you here he was an honorable man, he should have resigned by now, you might not have warned me. But I don't know to what extent an honorable man should go. I know what I'd do, I know what someone else would do. I don't know what other people are going to go to. It's just mine to notice what's going on in the Assembly and to distract you, since you're obviously looking at only the MPs of the SRS. I ask that my remarks be made in the record as to why my word was taken from me and the writing of the press from that day forward that I was right, because the minister proved it later, and here are the DSS MPs who said so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16319	According to Article 85 paragraph 2: "The objections to the National Assembly's minutes are decided without a search." I therefore put to the vote the remarks that MP Tomislav Nikolic made at the minutes of the 3rd session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly. For 66, against 105, abstention four, 34, a total of 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted an objection to the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, which was issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Anyone else have any objections to the record? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16320	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the third session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, after the word was taken from Tomislav Nikolic outside the Rules of Procedure, means, on the basis of a flat-rate assessment by the president of the Assembly and during the session, the chairman of Rodoljub Sabic gave me his word on two occasions as representative of the parliamentary group, until his seat was again taken by the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly and invited me, after I called to speak as a representative of the parliamentary group about an amendment, to go out for the speaker. When I arrived at the pay phone, she told me that she regretted and that I had no right to speak, regardless of having proper authority from the deputy president of the parliamentary group that in a situation where both the president and the deputy president of the parliamentary group are not in the O.R., I am acting as deputy president of the parliamentary group. She didn't accept that kind of authority. She gave me two warnings because I didn't want to leave the pay phone and took my word. Following the session's interruption, which does not stand in the minutes, the power to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group's representatives was given to Natasa Jovanovic. In signing the mandate, he served as SRS deputy president Gordana Pop-Lazic. Mrs. Micic accepted such authority and allowed Natasa Jovanovic to speak. That means she admitted her mistake and the authenticity of my signature and my function at that moment, the deputy president of the parliamentary group. In such a way, harshly breaking the Rules of Procedure, apparently, the president's goal was to get as many SRS MPs away from the session, hit the pocket, and make it impossible for us to have a representative, which the Rules of Procedure provides us at all times. Teached by this experience, Mrs Micic, here you have already given him a warning in the first address of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. We have delivered to you, this time reporting that all of us 23 on a specific schedule represents a parliamentary group, so that there will be no future situation, that the SRS parliamentary group will be left without its representative. I ask that it be entered in the record, meaning the entire course of events, not as you have stated, that only on the basis of Article 103, I have injured the Rules of Procedure and that this is why my word has been taken from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16321	I am voting on the remarks issued by Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 63, against 122, the three abstentions, did not vote 24, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted an objection to a report highlighted by Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, an objection to the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16322	The story spoken by counterpart Pop-Lazic continued on December 27th, but not after the break, as it stands in the record -- at a time when MPs should return to the hall, (because it is not your DOS custom), it usually takes an hour for your collection - about 1600 hours, which is not indicated here, that you have collected the quorum. The SRS parliamentary group agreed on what counterpart Pop-Lazic said - that through power in front of the parliamentary group, I should address not only the National Assembly, but the entire Serbian public and say why the SRS MPs leave the session of the National Assembly, where, among other things, the budget was adopted almost 100% higher than the 2001 budget. It was attended by Serbian Radical Party MPs to comment on the proposals made by the Serbian Government through numerous amendments they submitted; for which the SRS MPs by the chairman, Mrs Natasa Micic, in the worst possible way, opposed to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, were harassed; scycanned. They were told a warning in a situation where nothing, but nothing offensive, ugly, was spoken of by any means by representatives of the criminal government. You have forgotten this, in the part in which it is said that all these remarks I have made before the parliamentary group under the authority of Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic; therefore, that authority and its signature you later admitted - and that is why you had her removed from the session earlier. So you changed your mind after only an hour. I also said something that doesn't stand in the record, so please make it right, and that's exactly what I'm saying. I said the SRS ambassadors are not leaving the National Assembly session because of those members, but because they will no longer suffer the terror of DOS authorities; the criminal governments of Zoran Djindjic and his ministers and all that...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16323	Miss Natasha, I give you a notice under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16324	I'm not surprised at all, Mrs. Micic. (President: Please focus on the remarks on the record, not on holding a press conference. No, it's not a press conference. Your press conferences are really funny. We could have followed it back 20 days, as well as your decisions that you're making on your own initiative. This is not a conference, it's a naked truth that hurts all Serbian citizens. It is good that the president of the Serbian government has come here to hear one of the people's representatives of me, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, the congratulatory Serbs, the congratulatory people who will continue to fight you the way we've been doing it for a year. And about the efficiency of your congregation, not that there is no speech, but... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, I warn you to return to the subject of the objection to the minutes, rather than to the free topics. I'm going back to the subject, the theme is that you didn't put the key thing in the record, and that's that I said... (President: All right, we'll put it to a vote. )......................................................................................................... that Djindjic's government is criminal, that you terrorise SRS deputies and that's why we're leaving the session. That's what you need to fix. There's nothing else to argue about. You've made quite a reference to which members of the record I've called. You need to explain why this rest does not stand, which is why it is not included in the record that my remarks and the invitation to what happened before the break, when you took Mrs Pop-Lazic's word and denied her the opportunity, even though she had the orderly authority of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, given as we did throughout the session to represent the SRS further on the amendments to the 2002 budget that you brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16325	I would like to put my remarks to the vote on the minutes tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 64, against 111, abstention 6 did not vote 33, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this remark. Does anyone else have any objections to the record? No, I don't. ) I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 20, 21, 26 and 27 December 2001. For 145, against 54, the abstentions were not voted 15, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, with a call from the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, which was called upon by a group of 93 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 163 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the call for the First Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, the following Dn e n i d 1 was identified. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, submitted by the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, 3. Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 7. The proposal for a decision to suspend the validity of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a schedule like this. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a motion for a decision, submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia. If they want to discuss this point, would they like to ask the applicant's representative if he wants to speak? He doesn't want to. ) Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Are there any interested in the word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under normal circumstances, really, should not talk much about this because it is about jurisdiction, duties and the rights of MPs and MPs, and because everything should be in line with the rules applicable in the National Assembly, as well as with the number of votes won, or with the percentage of participation in the National Assembly that each parliamentary group has. Since the constitution of this call for the National Assembly, unfortunately this is not the case; the committees of the National Assembly, the National Assembly Presidency, are not composed of what the relationship of forces in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia looks like. At the time when we first established committees, behind you who refused to represent the Assembly in small, as far as our composition was concerned, there was arrogance, force, desire to completely defeat those you had won in the election. It's been a long time since then, the passions have, I suppose, calmed down, the heads have cooled down, the problems you have every day in your functioning should have led you to a different way of thinking, and so I object that you are making changes within the board within the existing state. I think now is the time to return to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - not ignoring any parliamentary group, and now there are many more than at the beginning, immediately after the constitution of the National Assembly - to sit down representatives of the parliamentary groups and to determine the percentage of each parliamentary group's participation in each individual committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; to determine which parliamentary group through its member will take over the leadership of the committee; to determine how many finally the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, and from which parliamentary groups will be vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we are bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the election results, which you have greatly changed in these years and a few days as far as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia exists. There is no longer a single DOS parliamentary group - there is a DSS parliamentary group, and then there is the separation of another number of MPs from the DOS parliamentary group and the establishment of several new parliamentary groups that bear the parent name of their political parties. In this situation, it is no longer possible for the distribution of obligations in the Assembly to concern only some fictitious DOS that no longer exists and parliamentary groups of opposition political parties that have not changed their composition, in the sense that they have broken down into a larger number or some new parliamentary groups. That is why you should initiate, Madam President, President or President, as you will, and I accept any communication with you, except that whenever I turn my back on you, you can put your hand in my pocket -- and as you are engaged, active and agile to introduce many other newspapers in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, let's first regulate what is old and what needs to be regulated. These are: the committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the post of president, which you seem to usurp, as vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to which they have the rights of certain parliamentary groups. Without such communication with MPs who think otherwise, you will not have decisions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia based on the interpretations of the committees in charge. The committees of the National Assembly cannot be composed exclusively of those who are in power and cannot be composed so that the rights of the parliamentary groups are not based on their power. If you want, we should sit down, determine: how many committees there are in the Assembly, how many parliamentary groups will have members on which committee and who will have the chairman of which committee. We must establish committees of the National Assembly according to the attitude of forces in the National Assembly. You nod, you get me, I love it, but it's obvious that this composition of the National Assembly doesn't match the composition of January last year. There are no more 176 MPs on one side, but they have broken them on several sides. Therefore, I suggest that you postpone this item of the agenda, to stop, to transfer it, of course, with the proposal's consent, as the last item of the agenda, and in the meantime, to finish the extensive deal. This would show that you have a desire to negotiate and that you want the National Assembly to work in harmony with the law and with its Rules of Procedure. We will vote to move this point, to be on the agenda of this extraordinary session, but to move to the agreement; and if you refuse, as you will, as we have lived these years without board membership, we will continue to live. Besides, it turns out your boards didn't look like anything without us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16327	Is anyone else answering the question of the motion for this decision? Alexander Vukitch is looking for a word. You didn't deliver the list. Please submit a list of registered speakers on this agenda item. I already prayed ten minutes ago. There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accepted a proposal or initiative from the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, because I think we would do so much for Serbia, I think that this would make the tensions in Serbia incomparably less. It is not the government's majority's goal, therefore, of the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we have, on all issues, strong opposing views. I guess there's a possibility that we can agree on something, but if you don't accept it and if you want to keep the status quo, it'll be everything as it has been so far, then it's possible. I am surprised by some solutions within what you have proposed, and that is why it would be very necessary to agree, to make, proportionate to the power of parliamentary clubs, that is, the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that relationship in the Assembly committees. I am surprised to see that you are proposing to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Natasa Micic. We do not, of course, ever enter your personnel solutions, nor do we, in the extreme line, concern ourselves, but it is interesting that there is something where we are yet to see constitutional reforms, as you say yourself, and I hope that they will not be as they have been presented to us in recent days, that we will not continue to malign Serbia. If she's going to be that expert, and besides all the laws, past court rulings, she's giving notices to the MPs here, so when she gets paid for what she's said, she's giving another warning, so there's no more money being won. (President: Return to the agenda topic. ) Well, you are my topic, Mrs. Micic, and your anti-constitutional behaviour, and you are proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I won't be long, it wasn't my intention to talk about you. Serbian citizens can see it at any time. Indeed, it was my intention that, if possible, once again, and if there are those in this decision-making hall, and I am sure that the President of the Serbian Government is the one who can influence it, it would be good for him and for all of us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept this step to move this point of the agenda, to be the last in a series; to agree in a different way to deploy seats to MPs in the Assembly committees; and then I am absolutely sure that we would have a different atmosphere, not only in the National Assembly, but we would have a different atmosphere in the people and in the Serbian citizens. It would be one indicator of how the government wants to respect all those who don't think the same as her, all those who think differently, all those who speak differently in this House; to show that she doesn't mind a different view of the relevant assembly committees. By the way, I'd like to show you, President, obviously, the future Committee on Constitutional Affairs, today you said you called representatives of some NGOs. I don't mind, but I can see that there are no representatives of some other NGOs, let's say representatives of Serbs exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, who are also in front of the National Assembly building, which you didn't invite, so if we could invite them in such a way, it wouldn't be bad for some more people to attend this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16329	The order of the agenda, as you know, cannot be changed without the consent of all promoters; therefore, it is impossible. The chairman of the Constitutional Committee has been the edge of the Rules of Procedure of the President of the National Assembly, and you know it very well. And as for NGOs, it's my discretionary authority; and, of course, I can answer for myself, and some I'll call for; for now I've called the People's Movement Resistance and I don't see why it bothers you. Are there any more reported words? We have 19 minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16330	The issue of committees, changes in DOS personnel policy on several occasions in this National Assembly meeting, membership in individual committees -- this is something that absolutely does not concern SRS MPs. We constantly point to your poor staffing when it comes to other very important segments of the functioning of our society, and you've had the opportunity to see it in the selection of Judge and Public Prosecutorial Officers. However, this is something that conflicts with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, still valid, if you have no intention of changing it, and the explanation you gave in the proposal for this agenda point is something that at least wants to hide what actually happened here and who here is being kidnapped by the committees and working bodies of the National Assembly. You, Mrs Micic, I assume you have been better informed of the Rules of Procedure since you received the seat of the Chair of the Assembly; I believe that at least those parts of the Rules of Procedure that are of interest to you and your MPs have studied well, if you do not know those who determine the obligations, rights and duties of MPs; for almost every little matter you think you do not like, you give notices to the MPs, thinking, I suppose, that by taking directly from us our only receipts, the salaries of MPs in the National Assembly, you will prevent us from saying what hurts not only us, but also the citizens of Serbia. But here in the explanation it says that, on the basis of Article 43. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the DOS parliamentary group (you should have put in motion Dr Vojislav Kostunica, you are all elected to the total of 176 MPs) to make a choice, i.e. a change. You need to explain to us, as well as the Proposer, whether this is a membership of committees that have previously been MPs of the defiled DOS, as you said, defined by the number 131; and that is the question, we will see already in the debate, starting with the second item of the agenda, whether that number is still 131; or whether it is usurped here and places on the committees of those parliamentary groups, whose right it belongs to. You have already heard from colleagues Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic that from the first day of such a decision by the ruling majority, there has been an uptake of those seats on committees belonging to our parliamentary group by reciprocity, meaning representation of SRS MPs - and when it comes to committee presidents, the total number of members and vice-presidents of the Assembly. That's why we were in principle against this abduction of the place, and that was the only reason we haven't participated since the beginning, and until today we don't participate, in the work of the board. However, this is another good opportunity, a debate on this agenda point, to point out to the general public the delusions that are being made by MPs from the back of the DOS parliamentary group, which is that SRS MPs use the opportunity on many local televisions (which are all under your control), do not want to participate in committees, so they write numerous amendments, usurp the Assembly. As you say, we're in destruction. We are not for you a constructive opposition and to me it can only be a compliment, as well as other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Because when you from the beginning, it means from the constitution of this National Assembly, you are violating the basic principles of democracy and usurping the right of the parliamentary group to, in accordance with the number of MPs you have won in the elections, get presidential and vice-presidential seats, and membership on committees, then what do we expect further; and how can anyone in Serbia believe that story about how you function - I don't know how. In committees, you make arrangements there, and very often, in practice, you agree one thing, and then you have problems here because some of them break out of your congregation majority, so they won't vote exactly the way they decided, as they promised you at those board sessions. It would not have been good for you at all, and for your parliamentary group to boast about how many working days the Assembly had, how many committees worked, how all this worked, because if it had not been for luck at all, you wouldn't have put it on the agenda, and you wouldn't have already been in force today, such laws directly affecting all citizens of Serbia, of course, by causing them great damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16331	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to a concrete debate on the agenda, I would like to ask the chairman that when she mentions her name in any context, she does not feel it personally and that she does not react so bitterly and emotionally. With a set of circumstances, you are in that place, more specifically, through a network of inter-party trade within the DOS, you have taken that place, and if the MPs of the SRS point to some kind of irregularities, and in particular when it comes to committees, then don't take it as if you're the center around which this entire assembly is spinning. You may be until that moment until a new trade is made, a new agreement within DOS, and that's where your career ends - you pass as your predecessor to the benches, to be an MP, as you've been selected on the list, so please do not comment on it in the future; and if you have any comments, go out for this speaker. At least you could pick it up from the Martians. That was good. Although he also had a habit of throwing "out of the back," but he mostly went out for a pay phone to replicate. As far as the committees themselves are concerned, we, the Serbian radicals, are doing the truth, at first we didn't want to participate in the committee's work, for one single reason. At that time, the power ratio was such that the participation of Serbian radicals in the Committee's work was disabled. You were unique. You are uniquely selected on the list. You were most of them. You had 176 MPs back then. Your name was DOS - Vojislav Kostunica. You did what you thought you should do. Meanwhile, after a year, much has changed -- it has changed especially when inter-party relations are at stake within the DOS. Now a new composition of the assembly committees, new amendments to the assembly committees and how we are interested in Serbian radicals. We are interested for a simple reason - to make it clear from this pay phone whether, in the interest of and on behalf of some tolerance that is primarily seen in the work of the Assembly, in the functioning of its committees, you want the Serbian Radical Party to participate in the work of the board. Or, to make it clear to everyone -- no, we who make up the still narrow majority, and we are called DOS without -- Vojislav Kostunica, do not want the Serbian Radical Party to participate in the work of the Assembly committees at all. What is the importance of the participation of the representatives of each parliamentary party in committees? Not to change something drastic or radical in committee decisions, but to achieve a certain tolerance, to achieve certain preconditions so that the Assembly can discuss more peacefully individual proposals, individual laws, legislative acts that are proposed and which are discussed by committees. This way, gentlemen, instead of keeping your mouth shut and not saying whether the Serbian Radical Party and its representatives are needed on boards to show you this great democracy and democratic principles on which you, as you say, function - make it clear and loud. We won't be angry with any answer. We Serbian radicals will accept it, but you know - we are interested in working and participating in the work of the Assembly committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16333	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. It's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16334	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the need for this congregation to be reformed in some way in relation to the committees provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The ratio of force in DOS has been disrupted to the point that a new "card-sharing" is necessary, because that is how it is, in fact, in practice. As for the Serbian Radical Party, if you consider it necessary to continue politics, that parliament works, that you have vice-presidents and ministers who would never be ministers in any country, nor would be vice-presidents, nor officials, nor members of assembly committees, in relation to the number of votes these staffs would actually get in the elections, and it is known how and how elections were won, and that there are parties that would never enter parliament if there were no such concept and platform that was in 2000, October. The Serbian Radical Party is interested in committees only if you accept the redecoration of the assembly forces in this parliament. It will not happen to us that very important issues, which are decided on the assembly committees, are decided by those members who have two or four or five MPs from their party. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party proposes, which is a valid proposal, to redecorate the assembly composition in relation to the assembly committees; to elect representatives of parliamentary parties to force and proportionate representation, which the party has in parliament in view of the number of MPs. We will not look like a democratic state, we will not introduce ourselves to the people and the world so that we have democratic parliamentaryism. Once again, I say - the Serbian Radical Party is for the Assembly Committees to be formed again, to re-establish the number of vice-presidents of the Serbian Parliament; to seriously consider the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, because the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, according to the party from which he was elected, cannot represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor can this parliament be represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16335	Thank you. Since there are no more applications for discussion, before I conclude a single search, I ask - does the promoter want the final word? He doesn't want to. I'm concluding a unique search. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 127, there are no, abstentions, no 58 votes, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted this proposal. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF AUTONOMAL SUPPORT You have received the bill submitted by the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vojislav Janković, Milos Lukić, Petar Petrović, Predrag Canovic, Dragan Marković, together Jovan Deretić and Zoran Novaković, together Ratimir Svirčević, Živica Pridojević, Teodora Vlahović and Karolj Kermec, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Petar Jojić, Stevan Kesejić, Miroljub Veljković, Vitomir Sljužarić, Milorda Mirčić, Aleksandar Vučić, Veroljub Arsić, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Slobodan Janjić, Slobodan Živić, Bozidar Živić, Goran Cvetanovic, Srboljuboljubović, Branislav Blažić, Lazar Marjanski, Zlatan Marjanović, Božidar Vuković, Božirić, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović and Žović Žović Žović, Ivan Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Mali Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović. National MP Dragan Markovic withdrew, writtenly, amendments he submitted to Articles 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49, and MP Zoran Boskovic withdrew the amendment proposing that the word "Vojvodina" be added in all members of the bill, which mentions "the province". You have received the Government's opinion on the bill, as well as on the Legislative Committee's report. At the session of the Legislative Committee, during a statement on the draft law in principle, the opinion was set out by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16336	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Article 90. Rules of Procedure, I propose that the debate on this point lasts in the double time provided for by the Rules of Procedure, given the exceptional interest this point has produced in the public, at the time when it was found to be discussed in the Assembly. So, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I propose twice the time to discuss this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16337	I put the motion put forward by MP Stevan G. Guduric, i.e. the time of the debate would be 10 hours. For 60, against 96, with five abstentions, there was no 34 vote, a total of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposal of MP Stevan G. Guduric. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, at a session of 21 January 2002, the Legislative Committee is in accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have fulfilled their obligation to consider compliance with the legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia of the law establishing certain competences of the autonomous province and from the point of view of the obligation of the same member to monitor the construction of the legal site of the Republic of Serbia. We have come to the conclusion that the omnibus law is actually the first step in decentralisation of the state and that in legal, organisational and territorial terms it helps to profile Serbia as a modern European state. Under this law, in accordance with the Constitution, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is subject to over 200 competences from 24 areas of social life. It is logical that in the process of decentralisation, the AP Vojvodina should be the first because it has democratically elected authorities; because there is a constitutional foothold for such legislation; and because there is an administrative apparatus that can help achieve such powers. In the past ten years, members 108 and 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that it is possible and necessary for an autonomous province, from a number of social areas, to grant certain powers and therefore to establish bodies, organisations and institutions, were not respected, nor was such jurisdiction defined in a logical and consistent manner in the laws covering those areas. In this sense, the laws very restrictively, inconsistently, symbolically transferred such powers to an autonomous province. The claim that the new constitution, namely the adoption of a new constitution, is an obstacle to the transfer of competences is simply not true. The timing of a new constitution cannot be accurately dimensioned or predicted. In addition to a complex and complicated constitutional procedure, there is also a problem of relations with Montenegro; the dramatic difference between the adoption of a sovereign state constitution and the adoption of a federal unit's constitution is. Therefore, the insistence on the adoption of a new constitution in order to carry out decentralisation, and in accordance with the existing constitution, the existing democratic capacities set out in Articles 108 and 109 can be used. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia would only be a delay in this process, which is absolutely not necessary at this time. A team before the new constitution involves the expansion of jurisdiction and certainly extends the definition of decentralisation and regionalisation of the state. Incorrect were the objections of some opposition MPs on the Legislative Committee (both in the public and in the session itself), which were primarily to the fact that this law had no place in our legal system, i.e. that no jurisdiction from 24 areas of social life could be laid down by one law. It is simply not true, as much as the law that defines the territorial organisation of the state, by its nature, provides for more jurisdiction. Look at the Law on Local Self-Government, which contains provisions relating to health care, education, local police and communal economy. They are also not correct remarks that such a law establishes a parallel legal system, and that parallel legal norms are introduced that will apply in a different way in the unique territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, there is only a specific application of certain provisions and adhering certain powers to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. It is also incorrect to note that this law is not suspended from the point of view of Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for a commitment to provide for the budget to meet those obligations provided for by a certain law, because those funds are provided for in the budget, are only not dimensional in such a way as to provide for all competencies, i.e. to provide for the amount of funds needed to achieve these competencies. But with budget rebalancing, as well as the local self-government law, those funds will be widely dimensioned. In addition, nature itself, the legal and essential nature of rebalancing, is to emulate the planned and projected state with a factual state, and the actual state will be determined by the adoption of an omnibus law and the adoption of laws on local self-government. The Legislative Committee is of the view that this law certainly does not give state prerogatives to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. On the contrary, this law fulfils the constitutional obligation laid down in Articles 108 and 109 of an obligation which has not been implemented for 10 years, gives about 80% of those powers that can be granted under the existing Constitution; although we must stress that this has not yet reached the level of competence that would meet the European criteria for regional organisation of the state. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and with the legal system, you can have a calm conscience for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16339	I give my word to the proposing representative, the president of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Cank.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16340	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, MPs, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has been in a position for years to be in one of the anti-constitutional positions, because in 1990, Serbia centralised and constitutionally abolished the autonomy of Vojvodina and Kosovo, the Constitution created by Slobodan Milosevic regime with its associates a war machine that inflicted a huge amount of evil on itself and its environment. (Lowers from the hall: Warning.) There was a chance that Vojvodina would be brought into an anti-constitutional position. The anti-constitutional position is the result of a series of laws passed in this assembly, so that this omnibus law, which is not only a list of wishes of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and its Executive Council but is in line with the Republic government, serves to bring the AP Vojvodina into the constitutional framework of the Constitution in force in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law changes neither spectacular nor changing, but it is the first law, in a number of years, that speaks of the Vojvodina. This could prevent further radicalisation of relations with Vojvodina, as the largest number of Vojvodinan citizens is not satisfied with the AP Vojvodina's position. There are twice - that this law should be passed and not be adopted. If adopted, we can expect things to be resolved by parliamentary means, things to be resolved through constitutional changes, there is no solution to the AP Vojvodina issue of constitutional change. I don't think that's the problem. It's more of a question. However, unless the law is passed, it will be a sign to the people of Vojvodina that there is no hearing in this high house for their problems and specialities. If something like this happens, I need to draw attention to the fact that this will put the reform process at risk, that this will endanger the process of normalising our society in general. I think it's a responsibility no one should take on. The AP Vojvodina issue as a federal unit of former SFRY, the AP Vojvodina issue as the only autonomy that exists, essentially, in Serbia right now, is the question that you, voting here now, will determine whether you are for change or not. The adoption of this, as I said, is not an overly significant and not overly impressive law, without amendments, because these amendments would mean a change in what has already been agreed and a change in what is in line with the Vojvodina Assembly as the highest representative body of the people of Vojvodina, would mean an act of goodwill. The rejection of this law would mean that there is no hearing for Vojvodina in this high house and then the citizens of Vojvodina would be forced to be late and other ways of exercising their rights. I suggest that the Assembly pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16341	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16342	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the four most important points in the change programme, which brought most DOS in December 2001, was the decentralisation of authorities and the return of true autonomy to local self-government and the province of Vojvodina. Today, several days up to the anniversary of the formation and this assembly, in fact, on the agenda of this extraordinary session are both the laws: one relating to the return of some responsibilities and the transfer of certain rights to an autonomous province and the other on local self-government which should be a step towards the true local self-government in Serbia. I think that, as much as in one case or another, it's only about the first step and one part within the system that just comes into existence, it has one symbolic meaning, because if anything was vital and alive in Serbian democratic tradition, then it was a local self-government, then it was the trust of the central government in its citizens, who have organized on a local, municipal and county level since the uprising days, throughout the 19th and 20th centuries; and if anything remains alive through a system that was completely centralized during the 50s, then it was this force of locally self-organised people who managed to, despite very restrictive legal and constitutional provisions, to have their rights and some of their interests carried out and satisfied. So I think the Parliament's position on these proposals means one signal and one message in relation to our democratic tradition and our democratic future. I totally agree that this isn't about, and it can't be about after the first year of fundamental change, something very big, but it's about one step, one direction that's very important. Therefore, the vote of this assembly and the result that will be at the end of the discussion of the law on local self-government and the law on the return of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina is much more than just voting on one law. Since August, a commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the Commission of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, has been working on a project which was initially defined, and has remained to do what is possible within the existing Constitution and what has been missed for the past 10 years, as in some other cases has happened during these years, to prejudge and to indicate a new constitution. In this case, it is about the fulfillment of a void that is very clearly defined in the existing Constitution, Article 109, where all topics and areas in which the AP Vojvodina should regulate its interests and its affairs and where the central government should trust it, and that it has confidence in the democratically elected authorities and the province, that they are doing these tasks. That's never happened before. That, if this law is passed and this package of laws is passed, it should begin to happen. There are two principles or one principle with two elements that we are constantly handling and which should be kept in mind. One is that democracy is always deregulation, delegation and decentralisation. There is no democracy in which one center decides, and then, by vertical means, those decisions are implemented. Democracy is always that you have confidence in people who, where they do their jobs, should also have responsibility for it; they should, of course, have motive, because if they are responsible, have jurisdiction, they will be motivated, then they will be able to compete with each other, then we will be able to measure their results. It's a democratic system, then. Democracy is as successful as the market is successful because it creates competition. There's competition where people make real decisions. If they only carry out someone's orders, then they're soldiers, then there's no competition, then there's only discipline. It could be in the military, maybe in some prison, but it can't be in the company. That is why centralised democratic societies are inefficient. That's why it's important to take decentralisation and autonomy as something positive. The second element is control, so to speak, because all we have to do is keep in mind that only if the system works, if it's not threatened by decentralisation and deregulation, that decentralisation can bring better results. So one degree of autonomy requires a certain degree of stability and functioning of the system. If in one system that is not stable you delegate powers, you might get 10 independent and unstable systems; it was a feud in Europe, when in one system that didn't have strong central authority, strong control mechanisms, strong integrated mechanisms, you had centres, local power centers that turned into countries. It is a danger that exists in all unstable regions. We are, as is known, an unstable region. That's why we need to be very careful. We are always looking for one measure that, depending on the degree of system integrity stability, we are giving maximum deregulation, maximum delegation, maximum decentralisation. That is why the amendments that the Government has made -- only one small correction, where it wants to preserve the unity of the system, in those areas that we believe are still not functioning well enough so that we can risk one deregulation or delegation of jurisdiction, as foreseen in the proposal of the Vojvodina Executive Council. This does not mean that in the next step, if those solutions are shown to be effective, it will not happen. At this stage, I think that in certain areas, first of all, health insurance, there is a need for some caution. It's not decentralisation itself. Its goal is to raise the quality of services citizens receive from the state service. Decentralising and delegating the powers of the central government makes sense that people who are in contact with the authorities on the ground, who know best how that authority works, which are its results, can best control it; that they end up getting cheaper, better services, faster services and that this authority is more responsible. The assumption is that there is one general system of democratic control that measures both the standard of services and the legality of implementation - means, which measures that decentralisation ultimately takes place as raising the quality of services that the state or public sector owes to citizens. The rule of law and the market are these two mechanisms that allow decentralisation and autonomy. Neither one of them in our country works perfectly. While this is the case, of course, of both autonomy and local self-government, we must speak with caution and move gradually into that area. I think the principle of real measure is the principle we should be handling, and that the principle of autonomy and local self-government should not be challenged as a principle. That debate, which I think is relevant, is trying to answer the question whether we found the right measure, in the sense that we're too careful, or that's enough; or maybe it's too much, so maybe we're easy to think about. I think at this stage of our social development, so to speak, we found the right measure. This is about three or four essential things that will change how public services and the public sector in Vojvodina will operate. First, some founding rights have been transferred, which so far has been passed on to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. If you look at the founding rights, if you look at other countries, you will see that in most European countries these founding rights have municipalities -- not even the surrounding areas, municipalities. Basic education, basic health care, basic social security, all of this is located in other democratic countries at much lower levels of state hierarchy. That's not how much this is about, decommissioning the unity of the state government -- it's simply about one logical process of delegating some responsibilities to places where people live best know what they need and how to do it. Second, these Sukadro's solutions. I think it is very important that this practice ceases to be referred to from Belgrade as directors, commissioners, all possible functions; at government meetings, on staff committees, hundreds of names are mentioned which no one knows, which nobody knows whether they are good or not, and many mistakes are made there. I think it's much better control, and that much better quality solutions are if in the local environments for a while it's being discussed; if you know who the candidates are -- control is much more effective. It's not very effective if you find out later that the one appointed may not be the best. In a local community, in an autonomous province, there is a greater possibility and the likelihood that human resources will be better than if done from a centre in Belgrade. Then, permits, certificates and everything citizens get from the authorities should be as close as possible to the people who ask for it. Through this package of laws, one huge part of it will be transferred to the New Now. People won't have to travel to Belgrade to get different permits and different certificates. I think this procedure should continue to be decentralised, and as much as possible led to where people live. I think we're one of the few countries in Europe where the capital still represents some kind of sun around which all the planets are turning. It's not good for the capital either, and it's not good for the central government either, because it first burdens the central authorities. On the other hand, it creates animosity across Serbia. If in your midst you felt a certain negative emotion in relation to Belgrade, although it may be easy to move people in Serbia today to an anti-Belgrade resentman, make sure it is not the ninaught of this authority, or the intention of Belgrade, to be some base, in which all that is in Serbia is located, and then divides into a spoon for all those who come to Belgrade. I think it's good for the position of the capital and for the position of the central administration to delegate as many things as possible to where citizens live and where they can do these jobs easily. The fourth thing that is important for Belgrade, for other parts of Serbia, which is a model here for something I think should be implemented in the follow-up process, is financial control. This is, the creation of sub-accounts within Serbia's single budget accounts, so you will see how much money from a particular region is being paid into these accounts and how much money is eventually being rerouted to those regions, so that the spending of that money is then agreed and agreed with democratically elected authorities in those regions. In this case, it's the AP Vojvodina. For example, healthcare; health insurance contributions go to one sub-account, which is, of course, within the central budget account; then it is known how much is paid and then with certain structures of the Vojvodina Health Ministry Executive Council the priorities agreed and how this money will be spent under a general plan for Serbia's health care. I think it's a good approach, that it's a control mechanism, and that story -- where our money is, in the end, it's going to be the past. I'm also interested in where some people's money is, if they think they've given more than they've got. I'm interested in putting it out on that single account and seeing if it's solidarity, if it's more than you get, then it's helping underdeveloped areas, and that's how we're going to declare it. I think this assembly will always vote the budget in which it will hold one percent of solidarity with those who have fewer, but to know which part is set aside and to know that those who pay that money voluntarily give up one piece, and for the other part they are consulted and asked about the way it will be spent. So I think this law is one step in the right direction. He's imperfect, like all the first steps in reform. I propose that the National Assembly vote in favour of this law, because I think we will not only, as a congregation majority, fulfill one of the important election promises, but I think we will also get close to those democratic countries that are the model for our development, which is currently almost the whole of Europe. By adopting this law, we also meet one of the conditions for membership in the European Union, because decentralisation, regional autonomy, is one of the principles on which the European Union rests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16343	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16344	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, autonomy is by definition the form in which certain territories or social groups have special status and rights established by the Constitution or other regulations because of their specificities. A set of these special rights and resources, which can be material, financial, political and legal, for their achievement, as well as a special organisation, constitute an autonomous status. Of course, you know that by definition there are various forms and different divisions; primarily territorial, functional, and personal autonomy. There are always fears of differentiating and nuanced autonomy from the federal concept and local self-government. There is no concern here, because autonomy simply does not have what, according to the classical state-law theory, is considered a crucial destination, which is the monopoly of the state government, or sovereignty of the state government. There's no such thing as a fear here. In Europe, three countries were recognizable by the degree of autonomy, which is: the former Soviet Union, now it's the Russian Federation; Italy, and Yugoslavia. I must tell you that there are even autonomous republics and autonomous areas in Russia; the republics have their own constitutions; the areas have their statutes, or regulations - there is even the citizenship of autonomous republics in Russia, and there is no such thing as that. Italy is even more specific, it is divided into 19 provinces, some of which like Sicily, Sardinia, Trentino-Alto Adijje, Val d, Aosta, the Julian Krajina, have precisely the specificity of autonomy. The provinces even have the right to adopt their own laws, have administrative and financial autonomy to some extent. There is also judicial autonomy in Sicily. Therefore, the proposal for a law laying down the jurisdiction of an autonomous province or so on. The omnibus law is a project that forms an integral part of the decentralisation strategy, i.e. the establishment of content, currently fully constitutionally naked autonomy of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Such a form has been established, as previously said, by the constitutional provision of Article 109. - even clearly defined areas in which this autonomy was achieved in its basic form, an autonomous, independent way of determining issues of importance for the citizens of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in accordance with the law, but these rights are simply systematically ignored in the process of adopting legal acts in those areas. Of course, there is no reason to wonder why this is so; the political establishment that was in power and which brought the Constitution in 1990 systematically violated it, especially with regard to any rights of the autonomous province and local self-government, or, in other words, it brought them down to one mere form. It was a legal articulation of an irresistible desire for power and that, by the authority of one. This was in some way the normative expression of the centrifugal political forces that ruled during the 1990s, in which all public powers, all the important powers, were withdrawn to one center of political power. Serbia's constitution is missing in many ways, but it is such that it provides the possibility to take the process of overall democratisation of society, and the concentration of power and decentralisation of public authority, to take the first steps towards restoring authentic territorial autonomy in the constitutional and legal area available. It is not about returning autonomy from 1974, it is part of a legal history; such as AVNOJ's decisions from an egg session; these are acts from another time, a completely different social, as well as a political system. This is about an adequate articulation of the rights provided for by the Constitution. The problem, therefore, is not in content, but perhaps in the form of a law that has a mark of so-called. Omnibus Law. It's a bit unusual, and it's a slightly ungrateful form that brings a certain degree of newspaper into our legal order because one legal act changes a whole series of special laws. However, the current situation is unsustainable. For a decade there's been strangulation of autonomy and it's now, perhaps, an angry wound that's been searching for angry grass. That is why a form of law is proposed to measure our real possibilities, whose advantages exceed its possible weaknesses. We hope that MPs of the Republic Parliament will support the proposed law on the return of certain responsibilities of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, in hopes that the near future will bring lasting solutions to Serbia's constitutional arrangement as a democratic and decentralised state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16345	I thank you, there are no conditions for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, paragraph 3, where it is the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to give the President of the Parliamentary Group a word if he reports for the replica. I've been looking for a replica to Mr. President of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly, because I'm probably just like all of you are caught up in the fact that here, in this House, which is supposed to represent democracy, it's threatening, it's talking about having to be realized in the whole of the agreement that someone has reached somewhere without any amendment. Whoever remembers a close history, even though we've been talking for 10 years, surely this discussion reminds - in the pocket of the wallet, about the shoulder of the machine gun.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16347	Mr. Ivkovic, you had no right to a replica, you reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16348	We had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, who rightly said there is no democracy in which he decides from a centre. Obviously, there are no agreements in DOS on this matter until the end. For the record, Serbia was also a democratic state and no one, nor the president of the assembly, has the right to threaten to be anything else if MPs decide differently here than he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16349	Are you asking the Assembly to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact you used the right to reply, you misused the right to report. The word has the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragan Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe I share the opinion of many of you that today is a historic day; it is not so historic because of the law that is before you and which we want as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MPs of the DOS, and I suppose many among you, to vote. It's about the day we mark the beginning of an attempt to change Serbia's outdated political system. This law cannot be historic in itself, because it is passed under the 1990 law, called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under this constitution, nothing particularly new can happen, but we have decided that even in the context of opportunities, thin, very narrow, which it allows, we are going to launch a reform of the political system, a conscious delicacy of the internal situation, a number of issues standing before us, a great deal of doubt, wanting to bring together on the project reform of Serbia's political system and tomorrow the new constitution, where it should be the summit of these changes, as many citizens as possible, and those of you who want to speak on behalf of the citizens. For me, the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy has been resolved within Serbia as a state. Serbia is a state, Vojvodina is autonomy, and there can be no deviation. What the Dukes care about is the control of natural resources, but within the framework of uniform regulation, the treatment of natural resources, the financial effects of the use of natural and other economic resources on the territory of the Vojvodina. Vojvodina autonomy does not harm the state of Serbia, it does not remove its basic functions that ensure unity between state territory, legal regulations, executive power and judicial authority. Serbia remains and will be a single state, which the internal decentralisation system cannot disrupt, nor does any of us represent a violation of its unity through decentralisation. On the contrary, decentralisation is the way of ensuring the state integrity and restoring the autonomy of Vojvodina is only the first step, I suppose, towards a fundamental change in the internal layout of government, which will make Serbia stronger, in which far greater power will have local self-government, regional self-government and, of course, autonomy. The solutions are yet to come, we will see which will satisfy us mostly, but the position of the convincing majority of the people of Vojvodina is presented by the decision of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. No one, I suppose, wants to deny the legitimacy of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, whose composition is known. In the Vojvodina Assembly, the opponent of autonomy is almost gone, and it was won in the 2000 elections. This and how it is a political fact that we assume Serbia's Assembly will particularly bear in mind, because in the Serbian Parliament, it is a historical responsibility to understand that assembly that is not under it, but which wants to help with the unique work, the unique decisions and our common strength. We have carefully tried to prepare this law by responding to the possibilities and abilities of all of us to stand behind it. We've worked a few months to prepare this law. He's in range. He's not big. From the point of view, first of all, the Duke, this is really small. We are just about to improve the autonomy of Vojvodina, but this improvement of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a dam, but it is not only a defence for improving the autonomy of Vojvodina, it is a dam for the fundamental change of the entire political system. It's gone, and it's been over the past ten years and, clearly, to insist on centralised and centralised. Centralism and centralisation are the strengthening of governments when society is poor, when a country is threatened by someone outside, or when there are such disputes within the country that require that slowly, day after day, one right citizen, regions, groups, be taken to the benefit of central government regulation. We don't even have an economy anymore. However, we were also the first in that ex-socialist world to attack centralism, but the Soviet Union in this country will never be restored again. With centralism, we've said good-bye to each other in our previous arrangement. There are no outside threats that we need to protect ourselves with centralism, nor within the country there are differences that would require that all political, economic and many other decisions come from only one centre. Hence, retaining the existing centralist arrangement would lead to radicalisation of not only the relations between many political and economic groups, finally and region, not only between Vojvodina and Serbia, but also within Serbia, as there are strong motives in Serbia to carry out effective decentralisation. Finally, a regionalist arrangement, a federalist arrangement and how it is spread across Europe. Take, for example, Spain, which few of us know so well, at least its political system, where autonomy and how it's spread; let's look at the German federal arrangement; let's look at the arrangement of Great Britain and many other states on this continent. We will see that regional arrangements and autonomy are the way to cross state borders, the way of co-operation, and that within the country are the kind of political system that enables the exercise of rights and the emphasis of many, with the right of motives shown. As much as we respect regionalism, local self-government, Vojvodina, but also decentralisation, we will be closer to Europe, and our path to it is not backwards with old solutions. And that is why I call on all the MPs in this assembly to understand, by the voice of the people, that before Serbia there is a historical responsibility, that we begin with a new age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16351	Thank you. Does MP Zoran D. Nikolic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16352	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President and members of the Government, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, have taken the view at the session of the Legislative Committee, given that the work of this Committee is about monitoring the harmonisation of the bill with the legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I will limit my discussion to this particular round of issues. But before I say a few words about these moments, I'd like to say that as a member of the SPS, it's a natural push for territorial autonomy. So we have a positive relationship with territorial autonomy. After all, we have installed these pledges, when we were in a position, in the existing Constitution, because we are aware of the fact that certain specificities, historical, cultural, geographical, linguistic, ethnic, which rule in a certain area should find their mark and place in the legal system of the state. What we certainly disagree with is, first of all, the form and essence of this bill, which we have on the agenda today. We don't think this bill is in line with what was said in the introduction, primarily in its form. Regarding the compliance of this law with the legal system, the minister said in his opening statement that an unusual legal technique is that omnibus law, which some call the law of a towmaker, is one law that changes more than 25 republican laws. In the legal system, we will now have one dualism if this law gets the support of the majority in this House -- 25 republican laws will be in force and one special law that regulates the same matter in something different or quite the opposite of these existing republican laws, which we believe does not contribute to the legal order but rather contributes to legal chaos. But it can also be a question of legal beauty or legal technique, and it is less significant. Much more important is the relationship this law produces with regard to compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There's a few dots I'd like to count quickly. The first one is related to a particular group of issues that simply could not have been subject to this law, because according to adopted legal theories from one entity to another only what is owned can be transferred. What is not owned cannot be passed on. It is obvious, both to the legislator and to us here, that a particular round of issues in the field of social security is, above all, part of health, pension and disability insurance in the Federal State. Well, if that's the case, then the Republic of Serbia can't do something that's not its jurisdiction to pass on to the authorities of territorial autonomy without attitude, without consent, without federal law. On the other hand, there is something that simply cannot be transposed by this law, and it is transmitted almost in all areas. It's a matter of administrative oversight and surveillance at all. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, supervision of law enforcement can only be given to state authorities -- republican authorities and no one else. The rural authority can be entrusted with the enforcement of the law by a certain Republic law. But only a state authority can control the enforcement of such a law. The republican authority - it simply could not have been the subject of this law without simply breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (Glasses - it is regulated by amendments. I accept that amendments to the Government and amendments to the Members of Parliament can be corrected, but this is the subject of our further debate. I'm in a position to talk about the bill now as it says. Third, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that while transposing certain rights, funds are also provided for the exercise of these rights. There's no such thing in this law. We have received a story from the finance minister, when the Budget Law is passed, that after the adoption of this law, there will be a rebalancing of the republican budget and that according to this part of the funds will go into the province's budget and part into the municipal budget; but we must be aware that at the moment we raise two fingers for this law, the law will not be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Fourthly, the Constitution of the Republic defines the authorities of territorial autonomy -- we know who they are. However, this law introduces some other bodies that even the Republic does not have. It is primarily thought of by the famous – the Ombudsman, whom the Constitution and the legal system of this country do not possess, nor the means for his work. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm sorry, here's the end. And, fifthly, it is probably a time-consistencies; the final provisions say that this law will apply from January 1st, which makes the whole law retroactive, and that means the whole law against the constitution, which is also not possible, and I would conclude from everything that this law was passed by the promoter with the call to the Constitution, but that this law is equitably and very broadly in violation of the Constitution. I don't think the promoter chose the right path. I guess someone was in a hurry for this to happen. We think that the right path is either to amend 25 republican laws or to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that the issue of territorial autonomy is settled in a different way. But first of all, because of these formal things, for us socialists this law is not acceptable and will not get support at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16353	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, acting as the president of the parliamentary group, followed by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16354	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group will vote against this, as you called it -- the omnibus law, because we Serbian radicals believe this law is very dangerous to the survival of the Serbian state. If this law is passed, it will not be legal or legitimate. Why won't he be legal? Because it will be contrary to the existing Constitution. You can't legally change the Constitution. The Constitution of this jurisdiction did not provide for an autonomous province. You cannot make up for what is not in the Constitution, which is not provided for in the Constitution, as regards constitutional norms, to make up for the law -- nor can you legally change what is in the Constitution in a very specific way. It is not legitimate, or it will not be legitimate because you did not promise the people in the election campaign to adopt this and to edit things like this in Serbia from a constitutional and legal aspect. You should have promised this to the people in the election campaign. If you haven't promised this, and if this is directly contrary to your policy and your program, then let's go to the election first, so show this to the people in the election, so if the people accept this, the people have the right to commit suicide. For us Serbian radicals, the will of the people is undeniable. It was neither the Democratic Party's policy nor the Democratic Party of Serbia's policy, the two leading parties within the DOS. The two parties' policy has led to a shift in past elections. The rest of the parties, besides the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, would probably not have crossed the census. Here is evidence - Zoran Djindjic, 1994: "Yugoslavija's future is in greater centralism" (in the hands of the newspaper). He stands here for a much higher degree of centralisation than the one that existed in 1994. This is your policy, which you promoted until you came to power in public. You suddenly changed that policy when you came to power. When in a civilized, democratic country, there is a sudden change in the basic political concept -- to the elections, to check. Here were the words of the 1990 Constitution. The constitution is the only democratic constitution Serbia has had since the Vidovdan Constitution. What are you laughing at? The Vidovdan Constitution was a democratic constitution. After that, by 1990, we had no democratic constitution. The 1931 constitution was derailed after King Alexander suspended the Vidovdan Constitution in 1929 and carried out a coup. The constitution that we had in 1946, then the constitutional law in 1953, then the 1963 Constitution, so the constitutional amendments of 1967, 1968 and 1971 and the 1974 Constitution were not a stop in the right sense of words. That's what they're called. Communist stop. The communist constitution in the legal theory has meaning as fascist. There's no difference, no way to make it, no political... (President: Mr. Seselj, I warn you on the subject of the agenda, is not a debate on the Constitution and history... Please, this is a principle debate... (President: Main debate on a concrete proposal... Don't warn me. This should be understood first and then warned. This is a principle debate on a legislative project that changes Serbia's constitutional arrangement. You should have warned Nenad Chanka when he praised the 1974 Constitution here as democratic, and the 1990 Constitution attacked as non-democratic. You didn't even hear that, I guess. I know what I'm talking about, and you guys take a deep breath, listen to me carefully, try to understand, so if you find that's not the subject of the agenda, I'll accept your intervention. What was the problem with the 1990 Constitution? He had a feller in terms of democracy. If elections were then called for the constitutional assembly, so that the constitutional assembly had adopted a new constitution after the period of the communist dictatorship in Serbia, the constitution would have been impeccable, with a view to the democratic method of adoption. However, the constitution was adopted by the previous communist assembly and that is the problem of its democracy. He partially compensated the pheler for the citizens' entry into the referendum, but the referendum cannot be a complete replacement for the democratic feller of this kind. The constitution became legitimate, in the right sense of the word, when mass citizens, almost all political parties, under the constitution, went to the elections in 1990 and acted for a full 12 years under the constitution. Of course, in the method of adoption, there was felericity, but they are not so important that they can deny the Constitution as such. Since the constitution is relatively democratic, therefore, is not without a shortage, but it is democratic, it can only be changed by that procedure provided for in it for a change in the constitution. After all, you came to power by that constitution. If that constitution is not legal, regular, your authority is neither legal nor regular. You've seen the fate of that constitution that you've come to power by, so don't throw it so easily under your feet. As for the concept of autonomy that is trying to inaugurate here, democracy is constantly being talked about. Democracy and autonomy have nothing to do with it, they have absolutely nothing to do with it, as democracy has nothing to do with federalism. That's what Mr Djindjic should know, he was studying with respected German political philosophers. What does federalism have to do with democracy? Nothing. It has to do with democracy, and without it there is no democracy, a strict division of power, a multiparty system and direct parliamentary elections, freedom of the media... It's something that makes the essence of democracy in a formal and legal sense. Federalism and autonomy have nothing to do with democracy. Federalism can make democracy worse. How is he threatening her? Because it inaugurates the two-home decision-making system. We also received a constitutional project today, where a two-cameral system is predicted in Serbia. This blocks the main branch of government, something a little more equal than administrative and judicial, and that is the legislative authority. Where there is a two-home system blocking the legislative authority, it interferes. The two-camel system was invented in England so that the ruler through the upper home, home of the nobles, could block the lower home, home of the citizens. That's the point. I understand that you don't know anything about this, but I'm not saying this because of you, and I'm saying this because of the general public and, of course, because of those people who sent me to this Parliament. You're here to transfer certain state responsibilities to an already existing autonomy, and you have no right to do so. Until the Constitution changes, you have no right to do so. You can't do what you're entrusted to as a jurisdiction, now that you're a congregation majority and you have a government out of your ranks, just throw it away and trust someone else. That's why you don't trust me. You've had the right to do some work under your jurisdiction to trust, but you don't trust, you transfer jurisdiction. It's important different and it can't. You're transferring jurisdiction here. You're transferring jurisdiction. Since you're transferring these powers, you're actually admitting to the people that you're not capable of performing them. In case there really is a sincere desire to democratisation Serbia's political system further, democratisation can be done through strengthening the authority of local self-government. Local self-government is a democratic race. However, we have, compared with this, received a new law on local self-government, where a presidential system is being introduced, where the mayor will have all the administrative authority in his hands, uncut and cannot be replaced by the assembly. These things are connected. Everything you stand for, the whole system of legal acts, especially these organic characters, is talking about your political concept. Your political concept is not democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16355	Mr. Seselj, do you want to use all 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16356	Yeah, all 20 minutes. What do members of the national minorities get through this legal project? Nothing. What does it matter if members of the national minorities will have Djindjic in Belgrade or Canak in Vojvodina? They don't care. It doesn't matter. Members of national minorities in a territory where they are not the majority of this kind of autonomy have no use at all. This is not autonomy for national minorities, this is Serbia's refugee. Where would strengthening local self-government for national minorities be useful? In those municipalities where members of national minorities are the majority population, and that makes sense. It was before, because of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, there was no accession. Since Kosovo and Metohija are now under occupation, Vojvodina already makes sense, not only in Vojvodina but in the rest of Serbia, except for occupied work in Kosovo and Metohija, it makes sense to strengthen the competence of local self-government. That's what we could support and strengthen the jurisdiction of a bureaucratic structure means nothing in the process of democratisation, absolutely nothing. Whether these things will be decided in Belgrade or in Novi Sad does not matter, but there is another danger. The second danger is the conflict of interest of political oligarchy in Belgrade and political oligarchy in Novi Sad. These conflicts exist all the time. They are natural whenever one party holds power in Belgrade and another party in Novi Sad. Now imagine Serbia divided into six autonomous provinces -- six Nenad Canaks, I do not want to offend in any way... six Suddenly the Canaks, when they conflict with one another in their own interests, can lead to war. Here we are constantly talking about the historical meaning, and the historical basis of Vojvodina's autonomy. The historical meaning of Vojvodina's automy exists in relation to some alien states that ruled the Vojvodina until 1918, not the Serbian queen. First, the Hungarians when they moved to Panonia found the Serbs. Then, after the fall of the despot's great mass, Serbs moved to Srem, Banat, Baka, Slavonia, Baranja. For decades after the despot's fall, the Hungarian king named the Serbian despot. (President: Mr. Seselj, please return to the agenda topic. I'm talking about the subject, and what you don't understand is I can't really do anything about it. I speak in principle. (President: You have a concrete bill. I speak in principle. There's nothing concrete here, it's all in principle here. (President: Generally on a concrete proposal. This is about this legal project, this is an omnibus law. This law amends 20-30 already existing legal order laws. Did you look at that? The autonomy of Vojvodina was one shorter period of time during the period of Austro-Hungarian times. Not for a year, Stevan Šupljikac was the duke, and that is otherwise the Austrian colonel, the Duke of the Duke of Serbia. After his death, the Austrian emperor directly attached himself to the title of the Grand Duke of the Duchy of Serbia. It wasn't Vojvodina, it wasn't the Serbian Vojvodina. It was the Dukeship of Serbia at a time when other independent Spanish states were not even there, because Serbia-Montenegro's independence was recognised only at the Berlin Congress. You now, what is the fluid of the free fight of the Serbian people, primarily political struggle, and was also armed, Serbs also knew at the uprisings to rise from the time of Emperor Jovan Nenad against the Hungarian authorities -- you what is the fluid of the Serbian people's emancipation brooch with this law are trying to turn into a tool of breaking Serbia. You can't concentrate on me at all. You can throw anything you can think of, I don't care. There's no way you can stop me from talking. If you can't hear, wash your ears, take a bath. I can't take care of your hygiene issues. I don't care about that at all. Therefore, in this case, exactly what Djindjic advocated in 1994 - the country's executive power should be centralised and local self-government developed and its powers spread. What are the basic state attributes, don't transfer there. What will the Vojvodina do to control the passing of the judicial exams? The passing of judicial exams should be a matter of the judicial branch of the government. If that judicial branch of government is disrupted in its unity, the state fails. Some of these speakers, as well as in the general public, held a position - if Germany can be a regionalised state (Germany is between a strong Federation and a regionalised state) and if Switzerland can be in a sense a confederate (although it's long gone), why not our country? Germany has not yet found itself in pain because of its elements in federalism, because of its regionalization. Imagine if some great force outside caused these centrifugal tendencies in Germany, what would be the fate of the German state? There's a country called the independent state of Bavaria. It's her official name. This state, if someone on the outside were to launch separatist processes in Germany (now out of sight of the force, tomorrow could happen), the question is what would be the fate of the German state. Switzerland has existed for so many decades and centuries by consensus of great forces, so it survived. Imagine that the great forces around Switzerland wanted to share Switzerland. What would stop them from doing that? That's no argument. In this case, we have the letter of the existing Constitution. That constitution is the Holy Scriptures. Serbia's constitution is the Holy Scriptures until, in a constitutionally prescribed manner, changes. There is no greater holy letter than that constitution. Of course, you are aware that not only by this law but also by many of the laws you have passed, you have directly violated the Serbian Constitution. That's why we haven't got a Constitutional Court in a year. You forcefully prevent the constitution of the Constitutional Court, the choice of judges, even though you have enough power to literally choose people who only like you. You also run away from it, though you have such a convincing congregational majority that all your obedient ones are there. You're afraid of it, too, and you're running away from it. Serbia doesn't have a Constitutional Court and then where do you dispute this? In part, this can be challenged at the federal constitutional court, where it is directly contrary to the federal constitution. However, where there is exclusive contradiction with the provisions of the Serbian Constitution, there is nowhere to look for constitutional and legal protection. Why don't you establish that constitutional court? What if you don't expose the work of one constitutional court to the professional legal public, where are you literally going to choose all judges? What are you afraid of? I don't think your conscience is clear. I call on you to give up this law because Serbia has a nasty experience with deobs. Remember Balsic, remember Crnojevic, remember Nemnjević, where the father blinded the son and the son of the father; remember the interdynamic conflicts in Serbia in the 19th century. You're actually opening a volcano in a Serbian country with inconceivable consequences. No one alive knows where this can be stopped. Remember, under the Communist regime of Vojvodina, she had more jurisdiction than these. She succeeded under the communist regime to completely repel, to completely separate herself from Serbia. Vojvodina took part in the management of Serbia, and Serbia was in no way able to control Vojvodina; remember the situation. It's through Cank Democracy; Canak has his own concept and he follows it. But first, let Chanka win enough votes in the election because, Chanak with its 2-3%... And he doesn't care, he's having fun right now, but you'll pay a heavy political price if you pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16357	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic, as representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16358	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ministers and Mr Prime Minister, the Soviet Parliament group of the Serbian Parliament will vote against this omnibus law, or, more specifically, it will be called - a bill establishing certain powers of the AP Vojvodina. It's precisely because we think it's not, essentially, about restoring the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, but it's about something else entirely. It seems to me that this bill requires something much bigger, i.e. that if we vote for this law, we will sow the cry of creating an independent republic of Vojvodina independent of the Republic of Serbia. To be clear: otherwise, according to its programme and according to a declaration adopted last year, the Soviet Union advocates the return of autonomy to the AP Vojvodina, which is prescribed by the current Constitution, adopted in 1990. But I do not agree that this bill is precisely about those powers prescribed by the applicable law. Rather, it seems to me to be a return to the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina with the 1974 Constitution, which Mr Nenad Canak also spoke of, regretting that this constitution was not in force. So, we advocate that Vojvodina will be an autonomous province in a single Serbia, in which all the citizens of Vojvodina, regardless of religious, national or political commitment, will have the exact same rights, where the majority Serbian people who have 70% in Vojvodina, together with other (25%) ethnic communities, will live in an entirely equal manner, enjoying the same civil, political and all other rights. It's in our program, and we're not giving it up. But it's obviously something else. I will try to explain to you why the Soviet Union will not vote for the adoption of this law. There are four reasons. The first reason is that this bill is contrary to 24 positive legal rules in Serbia; therefore, the opposite is with 24 laws. They either have to be abolished or they have to change for this law to be legitimate. The second reason, this law is contrary to the Constitution, because it gives the province much more authority than it is prescribed by the Constitution. That's the first one. Secondly, this law is retroactive -- because it implies that the application of this law is done from 1 January of this year, and will be adopted by the end of the first month of this year. That is what the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic, also spoke of, saying the government also reacted to amendments to remove some unconstitutional provisions of this law that make it unconstitutional. The third reason is because we believe that by passing this law, the province of Vojvodina is given certain powers that only the republics have. First, is it natural for the province to have the right to establish more schools, universities and universities? It's not. Is it logical and is it natural to abolish Serbia's Radio Television on Vojvodina territory and to establish a new Vojvodina Radio Television? I don't mind if the Duke's radio television show stands in front of the RTS or RTS - the Vojvodina radio. But the only name of the Vojvodina Radio Television reminds me of 1991 and the creation of Radio Television of Slovenia, Radio Television of Croatia, Radio Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina - and today in our Federation we have Radio Television of Montenegro; Montenegro is the Republic, and Vojvodina is still under the applicable Law of the Region. I repeat, I don't mind it if it's called RTS - a Vojvodina radio television, but it's just a Vojvodina radio television for me and for the Soviet Union it's not acceptable. I'm not defending Serbian Radio Television as a media house. She was for me, both before October 5th and after October 5th, a television garden where the Soviets had no access. No one from the Soviet Union has ever been a guest on any RTS show. This relationship is mainly with other opposition parties. So I'm not defending RTS as a media house, but I'm defending it as a Serbian national institution. As it is, it is a national institution and represents the most important media house of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, whether it is logical to establish specific funds, i.e. public enterprises that will manage water, forests, hunting, and whether it is logical that the province has its own management for the supply reserves. Of course not. Is it logical that the bill in Article 50 states: "Autonomial province, through its organs, gives consent to the use of the name "Vojvodina" on liquor stamps." Is that really important? Not -- not as a label, but it is important for Vojvodina to stand out from Serbia and thus demonstrate all its independence from the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, is it logical that the Republic of Serbia does not have its own sports ministry, and Vojvodina through the Institute of Sports practically assumes all of the Ministry of Sport's instructions to the province of Vojvodina. It's another segment of the separation of Vojvodina from Yugoslavia. And not to mention, there's really a lot of things. I would draw attention to something that says in the context of the bill's proposal, which is that the law represents the first stage of concreteising the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. We're assuming what phase two will be. I suppose it will be either a referendum or an internationalisation of the Vojvodina problem; we all know what it's like when our problem is internationalised and when the international community is involved. Something else is very indicative. He writes the date term "autonomy" has the following meaning: self-legislation, self-government, political independence and independence. It's as if the promoter wants us to suggest that we in Vujaklia, according to his lexicon of foreign words and expressions, should recognize it as an independent political self-government republic of Vojvodina. I couldn't agree with that. The fourth reason why we will not vote for this bill is this: we simply do not trust the legislators of this law; the Social Democrats League document of Vojvodina, adopted in March 1999, whose president is Mr Nenad Canak, otherwise the current president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, writes that Serbia should be divided into six republics, namely Vojvodina, Shumadija, Yugoslav Serbia, the city of Belgrade with its surroundings, Sandzak and Kosovo. A duke in such a federal state must have the status of a republic. Under such a defined state arrangement, Vojvodina would have the right to establish interregional relations with other European regions in the area of foreign policy. So, should we believe, gentlemen of the People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, Nenadu Canka as the president of the Social Democrats League, who has the programme to separate Vojvodina from Serbia and create an independent republic of Vojvodina or to trust Mr. Cank as a legislator of the law on the return of Vojvodina's autonomy under the current constitution. Should we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, trust Mr. Joseph Kassi, otherwise vice-president of the Serbian government, who, in the role of the President of the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, wrote an agreement saying that the Hungarian regional self-government, the area of the Hungarian regional self-government, covers: municipalities in Vojvodina in which the Hungarian population makes up the majority, as well as populated places bordering those municipalities, educate Hungary's regional self-government for more effective protection and improvement of the national identity of the Hungarian national minority. The area of the Hungarian regional self-government covers municipalities: Ada, Baka Topola, Bečej, Choka, Kanjiža, Mali Ijoš, Subotica, Novi Knezevic, Senta etc. Should we trust the proponent, Mr. Joseph Kassi, as the president of his party, who has in his programme the creation of the Hungarian regional self-government in Serbia, so in Vojvodina, or to trust Mr. Kasa as the promoter of this law on the return of jurisdiction. It's a question that we all need to think about. I just want to remind you that today a very important issue is being decided and that all parties who give their vote for the adoption of this law on the return of so-called jurisdiction or the establishment of the Republic of Vojvodina carry with them historical responsibility for the secession and division of Serbia into several regions. I mean, and I'm pretty sure there's been enough tearing of our country and that Vojvodina should be a Serbian autonomous province, with all the autonomous powers in a single Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16359	Replication rights were sought by MP Bojan Kostreš, president of the DOS- League parliamentary group. The basis of the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that Mr. Pelevic misread the Social Democrats League program of Vojvodina. It is true that we of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are in favour of the Duke's Republic. It's not at all controversial and it's familiar. We are in favour of Serbia's federalisation, for Serbia as a single federal state in which Vojvodina must have the status of republic. So we're not in favour of an independent state, we're in favour of a federal unit. As an internal one state will be arranged, it can be done in one way or another: the Duke's Republic - but, as a federal unit and never, in our opinion, should be an independent state. If we were in favour of an independent state, we'd say that we're in favour of an independent state, we wouldn't be hiding. I repeat, we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are in favour of the Vojvodina Republic in federal Serbia, Serbia, which should have six federal units, and thus, a federally arranged state would preserve Kosovo in Serbia. I don't see how Kosovo in Serbia will survive in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16361	The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mihajlov, as president of the DSS parliamentary group, and Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16362	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests today and legislators in this assembly. I would agree with those who say that the existing Constitution, its solutions and all the laws that come out of it, are bad. He would also agree with those who say the 1974 Constitution is bad, that both of these constitutions have equally contributed to the destruction of what is called Serbia, what has been created for centuries before both constitutions came into force. Both the constitutions were a constitution in the production of conflict, at the level of central, and other levels of government. One of these conflicts was produced because the government of autonomous provinces, which were then treated as constituent elements of the Federation, was too large; there were absolutely no powers of the central government at the level of the provinces. The second constitution, meanwhile, completely abolished almost all competences of autonomous provinces and contributed to the rise of tension between these levels of government and the almost impossible functioning of some parts of government. We're in action and we've had opportunities, and I've had opportunities for my age and for those who are much older, to see that your constitution is bad and that something needs to be changed. Whether the path of change should go in the direction of the 1974 Constitution or the path of change in the existing state should go in the direction of finding solutions that have proved to be good everywhere in the world and which are the fluids of democratic states, which we are pursuing and which are members of the European Union. The DSS thinks we should look for new solutions, not go back to the old solutions that will bring us back, which will do us no good. This is the key reason the DSS will not support today, i.e. will be abstained from voting the omnibus law. We will not be held back because we are against the authority that should belong to the AP Vojvodina or because we believe that citizens should not be able to, through that level of government or other levels of government, influence the implementation and meeting of their needs. On the contrary, we think about it; but we are not for this way and we are not for a partial solution to these problems produced by the 1990 Constitution, which has completely centralized the state. The fundamental changes in the state do not exist without a change in the Constitution. If we're going to change and change the system, we have to start from the top, from the head of the constitution. The constitution we now have is not a constitution that should allow the creation of a new democratic state, a democratic state that is due to enter the Council of Europe tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to become an equal member of the European Union. This is a constitution that doesn't guarantee any of this and that needs to be changed. Let's look at the circumstances in which this point is placed on the agenda. Whether it is necessary, first of all, to start with comprehensive, constitutional changes or to solve a partial part. Not entering the very essence of the law, not getting into whether it's good or not, on the contrary, we consider- and the draft principle of the Constitution presented yesterday by the Democratic Party of Serbia implies in some segments and most of the jurisdiction for a regionally organised state than it is given by this omnibus law. But it is not a good solution in this way, in the moments when the negotiations on the future of the common state are coming to an end - whether there will be a referendum in Montenegro, whether a deal will be reached, but there will be an end to the negotiations; in the moments when we need a change of the overall system; in times when simply, this law that is brought will not be able to live in a way that would satisfy the needs of citizens; when there will be a certain confusion in which laws will apply; whether omnibus law, as the minister of justice has said, has so far been seen in legal theory, and God and in practice, will it be the one that will be applied, which will resolve the jurisdiction of this law and all other laws; who will be the one who will know where and how to guide - we do not know everything, this law is not envisaged. There are competent authorities to do that. I believe that this law will not liven up, i.e. the worst possible thing for a country, which is that issues of strategic importance for the future of the state and for the development of that country are being resolved in such a way as to collect daily political points. That's what's wrong and we can talk about responsibility and irresponsibility, conscience and unconsciousness. Before the world, we need access to a new constitution. I would agree with all those who say a lot of promises are gonna be made in the first year. That's what we started with. What was proposed is not cemented -- these are ideas put on paper, as the DSS sees Serbia's state as a member of Serbia-Montenegro's common state to look ahead. The basic problem that will arise here is asymmetry, which some Serbian citizens will be more equal than others, which this law guarantees equality, or inequality; that is, the fundamental constitutional right that all citizens are equal, that all citizens have real rights within the existing state, these are lost. So, some citizens in one part of Serbia will have more rights -- and I come from that part of Serbia, and I think I absolutely don't care if the centre can be in Belgrade or in Novi Sad. From Panchev they took the same thing since 1974; from Pančeva, SPENS was built, I don't know which other Pančeva money other facilities were built in Novi Sad - the Serbian National Theatre and the rest. Panchevo remained one of the most undeveloped cities in Vojvodina; a city with many unsettled streets, a cobbled street, with unsettled infrastructure. I don't care if the money goes to Novi Sad or Belgrade. I want the money to stay in Pancheva, keep the money at the level where the citizens will know how to meet their needs absolutely. It's fundamental decentralisation and democratisation. All that is not is neither democratisation nor decentralisation. I believe that no one from DOS is running away from that promise and from this responsibility to take over the procedure for the adoption of a new constitution, decentralisation, democratisation of the state, changes in the system; simply, the downturning of authorities, especially those levels of government, which depend on meeting the needs of ordinary people at the level of which they could affect the most -- it's local self-government, it's a regional state, which, of course, would be chosen on other grounds and that would function on other grounds, with much more ingenuity. Of course, there will be an apparition of many, why regional state? Well, the regional state should now allow for a better functioning of the common state itself and the Serbian state itself, to that level until the regionalisation threatens the functioning of the country itself. It is something that is known in modern practice in Europe, and what should be, we believe, applied in Serbia. It should also be pointed out, in particular, that this solution that is now being offered and given for a shorter period of time, because it is said that it is temporary - is not a solution that I said it will bring to life; this is a confusing solution, with a large number of amendments and the government itself, which the original text has given to the Vojvodina Assembly, so the Vojvodina Assembly sent it, and now we have 30 amendments to the Government, it is not a solution that will make a significant shift in the functioning of both the Serbian state itself and the Vojvodina itself, and especially local self-governments that should have much greater authority. That is why we in the DSS will be abstained from voting on this law, not because we believe that Vojvodina and other regions with our proposal, will not have all these ingenuities; rather, there will be more in many areas -- but because this is an asymmetric solution, a solution of inequality that will only give birth to new conflicts; and whether we need new conflicts between citizens, between certain parts of Serbia at the time we set out to solve the problem and to build a new state. The DSS will be restrained because it does not agree not with the very content of this law, but with the way in which this law is passed. We demand that changes go faster, more systematically, more responsibly, by changing the Constitution; because until we change the Constitution, I fear that all other attempts will be partial, and that they will reflect only some twitches and some action without a plan, and that the citizens of Serbia do not deserve it. They already deserve to finally start doing the right things, and that is the change -- only then will our hopes and our aspirations be right, the Republic of Serbia during this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16363	Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16364	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since a few speakers mentioned me, I didn't want to pick up after everyone, but I thought I'd wait for a little bit to collect and then say what I had. First of all, it's as if through this discussion we see what this really is about, because very little is said about the essence of this law that should be put to the vote, as if more and more talk about the constitutions, the position of Vojvodina; earlier, now, etc. Here we need to talk about this particular law, talk about other things another time, not waste the time or patience of the citizens who have come here. One thing I must draw attention to, as an example of the position of Vojvodina: The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina has 120 MPs, who are directly elected by the majority system on the direct (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: The Ludic System. Of course, the crazy system is with these three MPs, three candidates in the second round, it was invented by the Socialists in their time to prevent the opposition from uniting; irrelevant. It is important that these people are elected by the citizens of Vojvodina and have the legislative possibility of an initiative, meaning the possibility of a legal initiative identical to as much as one of you. So 120 MEPs of the Vojvodina Assembly are now having the same initiatory force as the initiative of a single MP in the Serbian Parliament. Can anyone who is well-intentioned understand the effect that this has on the citizens of Vojvodina, what their feelings are and to what extent they feel humiliated. The point of what we're talking about is to prevent it, to prevent frustration, to prevent the development of all this. Someone here said that I was threatening -- no, I didn't think of it; I have no mandate for it, nor is it in my nature. I'm just warning and asking you to be responsible for the people who sent you here, to make sure that objective differences are treated differently. I didn't want to say anything else. One of the speakers mentioned the issue of Vojvodina radio television or something. It's a whole other thing -- if there can be local television, if there can be local TV "Studio" B in Belgrade, why couldn't there be regional television, a Vojvodina TV? I don't see why he's so sensitive to completely normal things that don't get in any constitutional position. I repeat again - Nenad Canak, president of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, believes that this is all a solution that is transitional, transitory, etc.; but, Nenad Canak, president of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, is not called here; here is Nenad Canak, president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina; in that sense, I do not have the mandate to talk about my party's commitments and what the party of which I am a member, but what is the decision of the Vojvodina Assembly, where most MPs voted for this omnibus law. I'm just warning you, I'm not going to say that I remind you that, let's say, Vojislav Seselj, 1988, as a state security associate, was returned a passport because he crashed Vojvodina's autonomy; I'm not going to talk about how many people were directly bought by Serbia's state security to destroy Vojvodina, to centralize everything, and to make Serbia a war machine for Milosevic's attacks. I don't want to talk about it. All I want to talk about is that this is a minimum of goodwill to Vojvodina, which should allow for a harmonious life in that country, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16365	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16366	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all, mentioned the constitution by the legislator of the law and began the whole story today by claiming that the 1990 Constitution turned Serbia into a war machine. The president of the assembly didn't warn him. I understand that someone does not accept the constitution, nor the laws, nor the rules of conduct, but when he does not generally say that Serbia is a war machine, even if he claims to teach us democracy, to watch what he says about a country that is, I hope, his and mine, as much as it is equal. Here we have heard the mourning and frustrations about the MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly, who, of course, do not have as many rights as the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, so 120 have rights as one MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, why is it incompatible with democracy, does one MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have the right to propose anything to the Vojvodina Assembly? Is there a right for the Serbian Parliament, most of the votes, to propose anything to the Vojvodina Assembly? No, I don't feel frustrated. I know we've got some jurisdiction. We've done some work. And to the gentleman who spoke before me, when he gives the information of one of us, and there is no warning, and I always get a reminder when I tell the truth about one of you, let him wait for the one he speaks of to be in this room. I guess that's basic order, I guess that's a rule of conduct. When Vojislav Seselj is in the O.R., tell him he was a co-worker of state security, and then "pick up the skin on the spike." I have no reason to defend Vojislav Seselj in any way, he will be able to do it himself, but please, appreciate yourself a little bit, appreciate yourself so much that the man you speak of is in the O.R. when you speak of him, because you, as a proposing officer, have the right to receive your word whenever you raise your hand. Well, then that would be like democracy. What you have done now, it looks like you, Nenad Canka, who said that certain people and Slobodan Milosevic will hang on to a banner in Belgrade and convince Serbian citizens that it is a democracy brought by Nenad Canak. Don't forget, Mr. Prime Minister, Nenad Canak is in your coalition and behind your name is doing everything he does. I don't trust him now that he has much less jurisdiction in Vojvodina he doesn't respect you as Prime Minister at all, these are his statements in the means of information. How will he respect you when you transfer these powers to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16367	The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16368	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the establishment of autonomy on the part of a republic's territory is an extremely dynamic job, a dynamic and responsible job for today, and for generations to come. This dynamic work can have two extreme results -- unitarism or separatism. What will result from the establishment of autonomy depends directly on the political forces that carry out the autonomy. I must conclude that the current composition of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is not good, that the autonomy advocated in this way, the omnibus law, will essentially lead to a real democracy and the development of Serbia's country and economy. It is my premonition that today's assembly of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and it is normal to expect this, given the conditions in which the dictatorship was elected on 8 October, essentially, that composition, will be a major source of political instability in the Republic of Serbia. The performances of the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly show, and by the cramping of faces when he speaks, how he thinks, and what his goals are. I would like to point out that the Socialists are absolutely for Vojvodina's autonomy within the Republic of Serbia. We estimate that the 1990 constitutional solutions envisioned, first of all, a key line, that Serbia is the state of its citizens, all that is important for a multinational environment, such as Vojvodina. Respecting the tradition of this space, the fact that it is historic Serbian soil, but also the soil of many national communities, we are defined for autonomy through the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and through the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines eight important competences, and here we have 24 areas in the Bill of Law. So, the bill has stepped past constitutional powers, and it has stepped so far that it has forced us here to transfer those rights belonging to the Federal Parliament, to transfer to the Republic of Serbia, and to Serbia only then to the AP Vojvodina. Let's talk openly about what this is about, if this is part of the consolidation of DOS and the number of votes in the Assembly. We Socialists are for autonomy, but for that autonomy that guarantees the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, for that autonomy that will not lead us into the shameful position we had in 1974 with constitutional solutions, that Vojvodina has its own spatial plan, that Kosovo and Metohija have their own spatial plan, and that accident we called "Haunt" that has nothing. It is true that the Vojvodina Assembly has the right as one MP, but it is true that among 37 MPs, the SPS sits eight MPs from Vojvodina, and who knows how many ambassadors from Vojvodina are sitting here, in this House, in DOS, in the DSS, and others? What are we talking about here? Do you want to tutorship again, do you want Vojvodina to have its own spatial plan without the Republic of Serbia being able to bring forward a spatial plan until the Vojvodina Assembly is nominated? Did we find that? Do you know which changes were made? Only because we introduced bridges to the Danube and the Sava, which were not in possession of the Vojvodina's spatial plan at all. Do you want to talk about the proposal for an omnibus law predicting that Vojvodina itself is doing its own water business base? How is Vojvodina going to do this on a water-based basis when the Danube is common in Serbia? Are we going to have a water base on the left side of the Danube and the right side of the Danube? What are we talking about here? We are here to discuss the roots of the breaking of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, if this is part of political trade, that stability is created, let the people have all the responsible parties in this House sit together and see what is the extent of autonomy that Vojvodina can and should have. Because Vojvodina has its specifics in tradition, culture, space, if you want the wealth of national communities and religions. We understand all of this, which is why the citizens of Serbia adopted the Constitution in 1990 and voted that Serbia is the state of its citizens, so that every citizen, any religion and national definition, would have the same rights in this country. Don't let those shops take a huge step into the beginnings of separatism. Please, there is no more important document for the development of a state, after the Constitution, than the country's spatial plan. The spatial plan regulates issues that are quite important to a country. Space resources from water, forest, agricultural land to any mineral are being considered. And then the balances apply and defines -- yes, the land here is agricultural but it's going to be the location for the accumulation, because it needs water, and that's why we have agricultural land elsewhere. The state is being arranged by seeking an optimal solution for the country as a whole, and then, according to this optimal solution, solutions that guarantee a balanced development of all parts of the country, optimal to the resource, the potential of these individual parts. So, what do we have to come down to now? That Vojvodina is doing its spatial plans for a special purpose again, not thinking about what's going on with Serbia as a whole. Are we going to talk about this again, to look into the stomach, like in old TV shows, who is where he produced and how many sausages and breads? Are we going to talk about that it was true that the Vojvodina budget was 80 million dinars, but one ministry with modest financial resources, as the Ministry of Science, gave 105 million dinars, only that ministry, investing in scientific research development, investing in colleges, scholarships, equipment; and where education was given by a billion or two; where the other ministries were giving other funds. Don't build the beginnings of division. For some other reasons, do not adopt laws for which previous speakers, particularly Mr Zoran Nikolic, have shown and proved that they are totally unconstitutional, that they are intruding into solutions that are far beyond the powers that have not been defined by the Serbian Constitution and are outside the jurisdiction of the republic's parliament. We as the Republic Parliament, as the Assembly, should give them the right to ombudsmans, and we do not have that institution at all introduced into parliament. What is created by this legal solution? At the same time, the strength of 25 legal projects and over 150 higher-ranking documents and this law. Why this mess and why? Why is he in such a hurry? I repeat, we Socialists are for the autonomy of the Vojvodina. That's what we've defined ourselves for. There may be even more practical solutions to be sought, but let's go in order, law by law: the Law on Planning of Areas and Villages, the Law on Construction of Objects, the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, Higher Education - and, we do what the Constitution does and how it is in a household house. In every legal project to define the responsibilities that we transfer to the Vojvodina Assembly for its tradition, because of the specificity of that space. But we can't give anything, we have no right to give, under the Constitution we have no right -- we have no right to give the right to control and control. No republican congregation has the right to transfer the right of administrative oversight and control to any assembly of any autonomous province. Because giving control and control of the province's authority over the implementation of the republic's laws means giving sovereignty -- leaving the Vojvodina out of sovereignty. And, about regionalization, to agree right away -- regionalization in the world means development. Regionalisation doesn't mean tarabes. Regionalisation means that, according to the resources and potentials of a particular region, they develop an economical approach to the potential of the region. That's when the infrastructure and everything that goes along with it develops rationally. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, We are elected by Serbian citizens here to bring legal projects that will primarily preserve Serbia as a whole, which will raise the economy to its feet, raise production. I repeat, we Socialists are ready to talk to all parliamentary groups, that, in accordance with constitutional solutions, in accordance with the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, we bring those legislative projects that Vojvodina will give sufficient authority to seek solutions that are appropriate to a multinational and multi-confessional environment according to its specificities. But one that doesn't accidentally get in the way of Serbia's survival as a comprehensive state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16369	The word has the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragan Vesenov. Here you go, followed by MP Branislav Kovacevic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16370	I would like to give all MPs the right information in relation to what counterpart Ivkovic has now put forward, citing a completely wrong example, citing what was in the past, saying that what was in the past is also in the proposal for an omnibus law relating to water industry. My colleague Ivkovic, you have made a lie! The omnibus law does not say what you said about the water industry. Article 48, and I ask all MPs if they want to look at it, clearly says: "Autonomic province, through its organs, in accordance with the law governing the area of water: 1) - brings a water base for the territory of the Autonomous Region, in accordance with the water base of the Republic. "The fundamentals of the Republic are passed by law. We intend, this 2002, to bring a new water-based base for the territory of the Republic of Serbia and from a water-based base regulated by a state-level law can only create a water-based AP Vojvodina. Finally, in addition to that, you said Serbia allegedly is losing control, and it is quite the opposite. The overall water industry inspection remains under the authority of the Serbian state, so under the government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the laws governing the water base are part of the jurisdiction of the Republic Assembly, and the inspection belongs to the Government, and in no way is the administrative authority of the state being watered down.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16371	You are right, the replica of MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16372	With all due respect to Mr. Minister, I understand that he reads mostly what suits him as part of the play, and he doesn't read it all the way. It is clear, and we Socialists advocate to adopt legislative projects from each area and to define, by adopting each legislative project, this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of better quality life and the development of Vojvodina, to transfer certain responsibilities to the AP Vojvodina Assembly. But by law. About every law of these 25 laws and if it takes day and night to sit, but there's nothing we can do about it. It is, although I am a construction engineer, but lawyers claim it is unimaginable, the right to control and control the legality of the application of certain legal acts on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Well, dear Mr. Vesenov, it is true, it says here that it brings a water-based base for the territory of the autonomous province in line with Serbia's water base. It is true and it is nice to bring a water base according to the republican water base. But who's going to check if this water-based AP is really in line with the country's water-based Republic of Serbia? Now, the answer is at point 4 where it says, "she controls the legality of the acts." So you're telling this Ombudsman that the Republic of the State no longer controls the water base and its work regarding the Vojvodina, but controls itself by the Vojvodina. It is not enough yet, but under point 3): "a public water management company in the territory of an autonomous province is established. "So you will have a public company for the left Danube, and a public company for the right-wing Danube. Thank you very much to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16373	Mr Dragan Vesenov, the Minister of Agriculture, spoke of the word. (Glass: No right, on what basis? ) He has the right under Article 80. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, read and see.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16374	Mr. Ivkovic, you can read whatever you want and when you read it well, there's no problem with that, but there's a problem with your interpretation. With this inspection law, they don't cross over to Vojvodina. Therefore, all inspection services, including a water inspection, remain, as I pointed out, under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the establishment of a public water company in Vojvodina-Vojvodina, as you know, had several public enterprises on its territory before the violent centralisation produced in 1992, and this law only restores the founding rights, so that the Vojvodina Assembly can establish a public water company on its territory, and that is all; but it is not separatism.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16375	The word is made by MP Branislav Kovacevic, as representative of the DOS Group - League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for Shumadi.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16376	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, did not go out for this pay phone to tell you that the Social Democrats' League MPs and the League for the Shumadia League will vote, because that, I suppose, is what they know. Who doesn't know? He'll find out. So I came out to say that there are two groups of those who are criticizing this bill. Some who do not understand the essence of autonomy and regionalism, and for them it is never too late, they will learn; as far as these others are concerned, they come from the ranks of the former patriotic forces, which have been guarding this Serbia for the past ten years, have diluted the question of whether we will survive as a country at all, as they have done in the past ten years. So, listen to Mr. Ivkovic about the spatial plan and the future of Serbia, at times when hundreds of thousands of young people left this country, when hundreds of thousands of people died on battlefields, when hundreds of thousands of people planned their future in other countries and talked about the threats of Mr. Nenad Canka and all of us regionalists in the past ten years, because of which no one died, no one emigrated, for which there were no refugees, etc., it is completely pointless. You are the past, regionalism is the future and, therefore, there is no hope for you. You're spent political figures in this sky. Because of regionalists, because of Nenad Canka, because of me, there is only one refugee in this Serbia, and he is where he should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16377	Branislav Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16378	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam President reminded all of us at the beginning of this session that exactly one year ago the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Perhaps you, too, from DOS (then a total of 176 MPs), remember today what kind of atmosphere you welcomed the opposition MPs and how surprised you were that any of us wanted to report for the word. I must say, in the meantime, he's made progress and we can still talk. However, these traces of the past from a year ago, the manner of holding and facial expression, show that it did not fade away from that one terrible animosity. You know, you accept that every man carries his specific knowledge, every man bears responsibility for what he does, but a year has passed and a deadline for everything has expired, including the DOS government. Start collecting what you've done. If we want to talk about the past ten years, I'll tell you a story from a few months ago. The truth is, in the past ten years, the biggest responsibility has been borne by the Socialist Party of Serbia because it was in power. But it's hypocritical and pathetic to talk about the past ten years, not to talk about imaginary Markals, up to the fictional Rack, the fictional satellite images of mass graves. What has the opposition done in the past ten years? She rang the bells, asked what the goals of the war were, asked not to pay taxes and contributions, brought anarchy. Gentlemen, you're just like us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16379	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16380	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will begin my debate with some of the things that have already been heard from this pay phone. I have no intention of plowing with anyone, but we'll still have to try to make things clear. Someone here used the term "independent state of Bavaria," and that's absolutely not true. The state of Bavaria is not independent, it is a free state of Bavaria, and it says so in its constitution and at its borders; and it also says in some other countries in Germany. They respect it very much and especially respect freedom and the right to decide to join the Federal Republic of Germany and do not fear it, there is not strong enough as someone said centrifugal forces to get out of Germany, because its interest is very clearly defined that it works in that country. This should be the basic premise of the functioning of the Serbian state in the coming time, that all parts of Serbia have a very clear interest in staying in the country. The Duke's proposal for this law has actually shown that. She has shown that she has an interest in staying within the state of Serbia and I will try to tell you about it. I must also agree with Mr. Minister of Agriculture, who has read, but very clearly, and I will have to do it again, since apparently his reading was not good enough for people to accept what is here -- "brings a water-based base for the territory of an autonomous province in line with the water-based republic. "There is no trace here, no desire to erase or forget the functioning of the AP Vojvodina. I would talk about three important things and I would ask you to think, when you make a decision, about whether you will accept a law establishing the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, and I would add, Vojvodina. The first thing I would ask you to think about is the fact that this law, i.e. this bill, respects the constitutional frameworks of the Republic of Serbia and the legislation that exists in Serbia at the moment. It is immediately enough reason to forget that story about some Separatism of Vojvodina and Vojvodina and not to use this pay phone to promote our political views, but to try to really talk about this law; regardless of everything, regardless of what someone is trying to do here to present the story of autonomy as a very clear signal that someone wants to leave this country and again explain the nature of autonomy as something called fighting for their authenticity within a foreign state. I will remind some of the previous speakers that the first topic or first thesis on the autonomy of Vojvodina was actually brought to a convention in Vienna in 1932. Look out, gentlemen, in 1932, it was brought by radicals. If they don't know, I'll show them where it is. The first thing, therefore, is that this law respects the constitutional and legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia and is within it seeking its place. That's what you think when you decide on this law. The other thing that is extremely important is that, in fact, by proposing this law to this respected home, the struggle for the autonomy of Vojvodina and the fight for better Serbia, it leaves one framework that has so far been a political framework, i.e. a struggle with declarations, manifests and political acts of certain political parties and crosses where it belongs -- it crosses forced legislative regulations and moves on to the field of regulation. It's the only real thing that can make a good solution. Everything else can lead us into a very unpleasant situation, and we have experience in the near past. The third thing that I would tell you about, or I think that's the most important thing right now when you decide whether to adopt this law or not, I'm going to tell you, but I'm telling you this without any prejudice and without any political tension right now, the Republic of Serbia is the best thing that it can do for itself is to help Vojvodina get autonomy. It would solve many problems that, in their name or prefix, do not have the word Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16381	I give my word to the Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16382	First of all, I want to respond to a few references that are addressed here, then something about the very essence, and about what the heads of Parliament said. One thing, I said, out of four election or pre-election DOS promises, was the return of true autonomy to Vojvodina. Not only is it not true that it was too quiet, but I think that the last three days before the government's anniversary we managed to put it on the Parliament's agenda; first it was about the rule of law, second it was about the economy, third it was about social policy, and fourth it was about decentralisation, local self-government and the return of true autonomy to Vojvodina. So the citizens of Serbia who voted in favour of the DOS for a two-thirds majority knew exactly what they were voting for, and we are now fulfilling those promises. In the electoral programme for the Republic elections, it was not important to bring the constitution in the first year, because we were aware of the difficulties that do not depend on us and concerning the status of the federal state. Now something in principle to say about the state of our reforms, the constitutional basis for our reforms and the dilemma of whether we should adhere strictly to the Constitution, to the last letter, or whether we should implement reforms. That's one dilemma. We have come into a situation of blockade created by the unclear status of the federal state, and it is, on some chain principle, blocking constitutional change in Serbia, and the Serbian Constitution provides a framework for some fundamental legal solutions. If we say there is no reform until there are clear constitutional grounds for reform, then there is no reform until the state of the Federation is resolved. Do you think most people in Serbia would want that, do you think that would be good? We have won the elections by promising real change in real life, and citizens are asking us to find instruments and political ways to do so. We're trying to do this, and that's what I called the principle of the right measure, that at all times we find some solution that has a basis in the Constitution -- but it certainly wasn't the intensity of the founders, because the constituents didn't want a country that would be an integrated part of Europe. They wanted an isolated state, and if we were now bound by the Constitution that the writers of the Constitution had, then we wouldn't change anything. Then there should be no DOS, no choice, no reform. That's not possible. So you have to understand, when we talk about change, that we're talking about two elements: one is the constitutional framework, the legal framework, and the other is life, and you see that life has its right, and not just some constitutional writers who had some other life in mind when they wrote the Constitution, any of these constitutions -- because obviously we're in one country where we can't count on some constitutional tradition, undeniable. We are not such a happy people that we can say - we only change laws, and the Constitution is as our ancestors have imagined, but we must also have these foundations to cross over a little bit. Now comes the story of Vojvodina, very interesting. The lesson would be -- everyone's for autonomy, but nobody's. They all said -- we're about autonomous rights, but not so that they're expressed in something concrete, but that they're always one colourful lie, that they're always one fiction, and that we're constantly drilling into the chest of rights, freedoms, everything that's written in the Constitution, and when we ask -- where in life it is, there's no such thing in life. We're up for it, but under such conditions that it doesn't actually happen. That's what destroyed our country's political culture and seriousness, this political schizophrenic where there's everything in the window, and there's nothing in the store. Or we'll clean up the window and plead, and then say, ladies and gentlemen, we're against that there's a formation in a country called autonomous province, so let's put an end to that formation. Because if there is one formation that has its own assembly, which has its own government, which has its own elections, whether it's municipalities, whether it's cities, whether it's an autonomous province, it's in accordance with the seriousness of its institutions, it has to have jurisdiction or it's a toy. We don't need a toy, because it's an insult to the citizens. Starting with the fact that no major party in this country has entered into its programme the abolition of a formation called autonomous province, we as a government have decided to meet to bring it down to life and levelling standards in the window i.e. in the Constitution and in the store i.e. in life. What we're proposing is one mild variant of it, because we don't think it's possible to do it so quickly, because there's a certain, and another priority and I mentioned it, it's the unity of the system. Some patriots say -- Serbia's unity. You can call it poop, but the system, which means the state, has to work. It's a priority. If possible, not endangering the functioning of the state, solving some internal problems, that should be done. I think we're doing this. The worst thing is to sow fears, it's the worst thing to make an elephant out of mice, and then scare people with elephants, and say they're going to go in there and they're going to step on everything; and then they're going to chase down autonomy from 1974, and they're going to chase some extreme political positions with something that's average, which is the majority point of view, and they're going to end up getting majority support. What makes you think that some MP who is from Nis, Cačka, Užica would vote for Serbia to be torn apart -- because of eight votes he will receive from the Vojvodina parties? (Lowers from the hall: 18 votes.) ) I mean eight parties that are proposing. It doesn't matter, for eighteen, for twenty-eight. Unlike you, I don't count the votes. I'll leave that to you. It's important to me that there's a majority. If she's eight or eighteen, it doesn't matter that much. It is not dangerous when one regulated way is to change the system. It's dangerous when someone spreads fear, when someone breaks up and scares the bear, when someone goes around saying they want to tear up the state, and apparently everybody else wants to tear up the country, just the one who stops here and says, "I'm defending the state, he's a patriot." Based on what? Where these evidences from the past and the present, on which someone can advertise for themselves a monopoly on patriotism and on the defence of the unity of the state, and reportedly, the Serbian government that has no reason to do so, will now contribute to the destruction of the state. They're empty threats and it's dangerous. Let's not pass on the same former system -- when it first started with irresponsible words, then irresponsible acts, to bring about a state crisis. Every state problem at first is ideological-verbal and begins with unreasonable words. Let's know what we're talking about. We are talking about that there is a province of Vojvodina, that it is not disputed, that there are cities in Serbia, that there are municipalities in Serbia and that in the next process we have to reconcile with that if we trust those bodies, those people, in our citizens, that we have to trust them; that they will get certain original powers and get rid of that one self-centerism that only one of them can and everything, and -- they are all equal, but if that one allows it. No, it goes with each other. It's not possible to say - I'm for autonomy, but so that it remains all that is meant to be; to elect directors in primary school, not at all, because it will endanger the unity of the state. I think this is about manipulation. I think this debate should be conducted in one rational way. My impression is that there are no separatist forces in Vojvodina, but there is one clear need to know where money is made, where money goes, how money is spent, that there is a decision-making procedure, about that so-called. resources, natural, material, immaterial. This exists in Belgrade and Nis, and the next step will certainly be a concept of strengthening local autonomy -- that municipalities, much more than is provided for in this law, in the next step that much more jurisdiction, much more money. The next government to make the budget will have to negotiate much more with the city's representatives about spending that money. It's the nature of democracy, it's the nature of maturation. Please consider this one, perhaps painful for some, coming out of totalitarianism into democracy. Democracy, that means decentralisation, that means that some other people are also wondering and that you can trust other people because they are citizens of your country. And no, when they're looking for something to do, some jobs that are logically in their jurisdiction, to say, maybe they want to be citizens of another state, so they want to do these jobs. I think that suspicion is inappropriate, like that drilling into patriotism is inappropriate. So I don't mind that someone is against autonomy as a political program, but I do mind that hypocrisy. You say I am for autonomy, but I'm not for any of the specifics that are meant by autonomy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16383	I thank the Prime Minister and set a break until 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Before we continue to discuss the draft law establishing certain competences of the autonomous province, I will read you two notices. You have accepted the resignation of Dragan Vuksic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Dragan Vuksic's mandate on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before it was elected, MP Dragan Vuksic, elected from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Since the conditions have been met, I would also suggest that we establish the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Adam Urosevic, elected from the Serbian Unity Party's election list -- Professor Borislav Pelevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, I am confirming the mandate of MP Adam Urosevic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We continue with the work - the principle debate on the draft law on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the DOS parliamentary group, the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group, the SSJ parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group and the DOS parliamentary group -- the Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party. The first to be registered for discussion is MP Jovan Deretic, followed by MP Dragan Marsican. I'd like to remind you that the total time for the debate is five hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16385	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, respected listeners, we have before us a proposal for a law on which there are diametrically divided opinions. What exactly is this bill? Some say, as government speakers, that this is one regionalisation process in order to be in line with some directive with modern European flows. We all accept regionalization as such so that the state administration will get closer to the people, simplify and facilitate, so that every province can have those revenues it has. However, the bill does not enter into any framework for regionalisation, nor for Serbia's redecoration, but for one policy, in one plan to break the state of Serbia. The applicant of this proposal does not mean autonomy, but is referring to the independent republic of Vojvodina. That's why they prepared the constitution, the programme, and already in Belgrade we see stickers on the car with - the state of Vojvodina. Are we now going to fall for this prank brought here, a hoax to the Serbian people that is directed against Serbian national interests and against the Serbian state, to grant them this first request that they call only an initial step towards secession. They call it autonomy, and it is not autonomy in Serbia, but autonomy from Serbia. Mr. Canak, who came here to the Assembly with a scarf of Jaser Arafat, as a symbol of the struggle to create an independent state of Vojvodina and with the mentality of the Taliban, intolerance -- that's the man who called Serbia Sodom and Gomorrah; that's the man who started that secessionist movement in Vojvodina, who has no other word for Serbia than Satanization. Should we give such a man and such a man trust and grant this first step to the destruction of the Serbian state? Gentlemen, this is not a law like all other laws that the Serbian government has brought down the standard of the Serbian people, this is an attack on the state of Serbia. It is up to you today, in your hands, to the future of the Serbian state and to preserve its unity and territorial integrity. Will you vote for the suicide of the state or will you defend what is your duty to do? There is no excuse for Vojvodina to seek autonomy beyond other Serbian provinces. Two-thirds of the Serb population live in Vojvodina. Why should Novi Sad have more autonomy than Nis or Užica, why not wait for the adoption of the Serbian Constitution and regionalisation -- it may gain much more and can be given much more if it is not the unity of the Serbian state. No one is against having everyone's incomes and resources, but we are against breaking up Serbia's state. The Serbian nation and national forces of Serbia will never allow it. I tell you -- you're from today to tomorrow, and tomorrow we'll undo all these anti-Serbian laws, and call the defendants to account, and remember what I told you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16386	The word has a folk MP Petar Hungarian, followed by Bora Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16387	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Small Encyclopaedia of Education, the 1984 edition, reads: "Two Autonomous provinces within the SR of Serbia, Vojvodina and Kosovo have formed a common struggle between the people and the peoples of Yugoslavia in the NOR and the socialist revolution, and based on the freely expressed will of the provinces and federal Serbia have joined Serbia in the framework of the SFRY." There was, of course, no free will, nor could it be at that time. The autonomy of Vojvodina and Kosovo has been limited, i.e. imposed on Serbian citizens by Broz's revolutionaries and preambles by constitutional solutions that in the second half of the 20th century have unjustly increased the powers of the province. The 1974 constitution granted this autonomy to the state or, more specifically, a bomb with a delayed fact was set up. I will not ask myself this time - why Dalmatia and Slavonia did not get autonomy in Croatia, although they did have it historically. About Istria and the Austrians in Slovenia, I wouldn't either. The history of autonomy in Serbia is inextricably related to the history of the KP of Serbia. As Communism in its final account has done us no good, we also cannot boast about the contribution of the provinces. If there is a commitment in the ruling coalition that autonomy in a certain form is yes, then it is certainly a better way to do so by adopting a new republican constitution, which is regulated by this matter in democratic states. The Constitution is the highest legal act of a state. The duration of the constitution in individual orderly democracies has been measured for centuries. From this need for the constitution to last as long as possible, the need for the solutions offered to be accepted as widely as possible and to satisfy many future generations. We are at a historic turning point, where we can arrange the state in a valid and lasting way, by adopting a democratic constitution, or by falling into the error of our predecessors and by starting to edit our reality back specialis - there is a one-time use. The changes offered by this back specialis are intruding into constitutional matter, because they change the state into 24 areas of life and it is the opposite of the Constitution of our country. The octrossed Toad Constitution, which is the fruit of the two parties' separate agreement, is democratic over the proposal, as it is the agreement between the two prime ministers, the republic and the province, from the same party, which at best supports ten per cent of voters in Serbia. The proposer apparently easily went over state reasons and the need for this matter to be arranged by the Constitution of Serbia in one serious, thoughtful and lasting way, including the widest circle of factors concerned, as does any serious state that holds to its interests. I cannot help but feel that this bill, which was not voted in the District Assembly by local regional parties, and the DSS MPs were abstained, is in fact a failed attempt to negotiate the Republic government and the autonomous parties, without resolving some of the key issues, and above all the issue of strengthening local self-government and, in this respect, the life issues of the citizens of our country. The citizens of South Banat certainly are not interested in replacing one power center with another, even further. It is not appropriate for us to go through Belgrade to go to Novi Sad to educate our children or to go to the top specialist; to cross, instead of 15, 100 kilometers; geographical, traffic, economic, health, education and cultural direction to Belgrade, but to Novi Sad. If anyone has the right to ask a question - whose money is ours, then that's the right of the Pancians. During the new planting, the Pancheva economy, which has a social product larger than the whole of Montenegro, has done almost nothing for Pancheva, but for Novi Sad and how it is. We replaced the new sedation with Belgrade. We don't want to replace Belgrade with new sedation. The solution is not a violent creation of a duke's identity, aimed at not the well-being of citizens, but at multiplying the chairs and strengthening the newly-sadish bureaucracy. That this proposal by the team of specialis is a bad witness and a subsequent 30 amendments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on its own proposal. I remind you that this proposal is a prenup of the Republic and the District Government. The solution is Serbia's new democratic constitution, which will permanently balance differences without jeopardising the stability of the state. Serbia is tired of conflict. We do not need partial and temporary solutions, but basic, permanent and comprehensive solutions. For these very reasons, the DSS went public with a proposal for basic principles for the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, calling on all relevant social and political factors, as well as all citizens, to contribute to the constitutional foundation of our country. I sincerely hope that a responsible approach will prevail and that by the end of this year we will be able to bring a new constitution, which will allow for the smooth democratic development of our country in a long time. This constitution would introduce a regional organisation of the state. Regionalisation would be symmetrical and accessible to all citizens of Serbia in the same way, while not jeopardising the unity of the state, but instead serving as a tool for a balanced development and creating a richer society.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16388	The word is made by MP Borislav Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16389	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, formally, the item of the agenda that we are discussing concerns the autonomy of the Vojvodina, but informally, most speakers are actually saying what understanding and understanding of the state is. In a certain way, it is natural, because from the way this country's nature and character are understood, our view on the autonomy of the Vojvodina also arises. But what we don't talk about, and the starting point is for the story of what nature and character our country should have, is what nature, character and structure of Serbian society is, because from how we understand the nature and character of Serbian society, then our understanding of the state, and from the understanding of the state, results in our understanding of autonomy. And that's why I get the impression that occasionally we just miss out on the subject and not talk about what we need to talk about. Serbian society at the moment is probably one of the most complex societies, when all criteria are applied. In ethnic, cultural, economic, whoever you want to make sense, it's one of the most discreet societies in all of Europe. Suitable to this reasoning, according to this diversity then state institutions are also tailored. If Serbian society is so divided by its structure and so diverse, then the Serbian state, or state in Serbia, cannot be centralised, but must follow through its institutions and through the way institutions will be formed, this kind of dissension. What that means next -- every centralism basically means the introduction of uniform and uniform solutions for the whole country, independent of all the differences that characterize it. We have a deeply offended prejudice, and I would, as a sociologist, label it as a legal prejudice but the encapsulation of this problem would take a long time, so I'm not going to expose it - it's the realization that the best integrated state is the one that is centralistly arranged. That's not true. If anything, the time left behind has shown that centralism leads to disintegration and egoism of parts of the whole. On the contrary, a good measure of decentralisation and a good measure of regionalisation is a better way to integrate the state than any centralism. Secondly, when we talk about the autonomy of the Vojvodina, and in general about how the state will function, what we need to strive without emotion is the cheapest state. At this point, each taxpayer pays five levels of government - the federal state, the republican state, the province government, the city government and the municipal government. So we have to keep in mind that all five levels of government enforcement are harmonised and harmonised, that there is no accumulation of functions and that it all works in a much more logical way than what we have at this point. The item that I would start with when it comes to this problem is the next one -- I think that at this point, radical decentralisation needs to be done, because through this radical decentralisation and giving more authority to cities and municipalities, we are dominantly solving or creating assumptions to solve the regional problem. In our case, the situation is reversed -- so, instead of solving anything cheaper and rational at a local level, and how we're going towards higher levels of organization of the state to be less and less function, it's the other way around. The higher the level of government performance is the more function and as we head towards the bar we have a devastion; reduction and function and source of income. So we've re-interrupted the whole logic, and that's why we're getting into these problems. Centralism has turned out to be bad in three important aspects. The first aspect in which centralism has not passed the exam is psychological nature. In a centralist state, there is only a centre and only the centre is active, and all others that do not belong to the political centre and central state authorities are the mere legal and political transmission of central state authorities. In a political sense, centralism has not passed the exam because decentralisation the state and regionalising it in other words means sharing responsibility. What Serbia needs is a division of responsibilities between central state authorities and local authorities, regardless of whether it is municipal and urban or regional authorities. And finally, he didn't pass an economic exam. In economic terms, centralism is, in fact, a financial cramp and not only a financial but also a fiscal cramp of a poor state, which is trying to concentrate all its resources in one place, so that "from one centre it will fairly deploy them". This has shown that they are destimulated within that system and those who have and those who do not. Let me finally say a few things after this context and about the autonomy of the Vojvodina. What is state should belong to the state, and what is provincial should belong to the province. These functions, such as: the military, police, monetary and tax authorities, so all those state functions that are cheaper and more rational to organise at the state level, should be a property and attribute of state government. These functions, such as economy, traffic, health, culture, education, which are decentralised in every country, and which can be done more efficiently at regional level, especially at the city level, should be regionalised and decentralised. That direction should also be taken when it comes to this omnibus and when it comes to resolving the issue of Vojvodina. What exists is the specificity of the Vojvodina and what is really a foothold for the story of Vojvodina's autonomy is contained in the fact that it is the region that has the highest degree of economic vitality. Therefore, the specificity of Vojvodina autonomy is economic autonomy - economic autonomy and is the modality for Vojvodina to express its personality, even stronger and more integrated into the state of Serbia. In the end, I'd just say a few things about the imaginary problem, and I heard it on two occasions here, and that's what it is. New sedation. That's bullshit and all that nonsense. The new Sad does not want to be big by reducing the importance of other major regional centres in Vojvodina. So, Mitrovica, Sombora, Subotics, Vrsca, Pancheva, Zrenjanina. The new Sad doesn't want to be rich by making everyone else poorer. On the contrary, the New Sad will be just fine and Novi Sad will be a big city if it has large regional centres in Vojvodina next to it. The new Sad will be rich to the extent that these regional centres are rich and will never come to a spill. But that's one, so to speak, a psychological disorder and a trick that tries to reverse the subject and people are trying to turn away from the idea of autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16390	The word of the Messenger of the people is Tomislav Nikolic, and after him Arsen the Korjakite.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing you've scheduled a session with this agenda on today, January 22nd. Why does Serbia remember only one accident and only one January 22nd, when the DOS government was formed. Here's another day to remember. This will likely be remembered for more tragic consequences than was the choice of DOS government. This law should be analysed with several aspects. One is his unconstitution, his unconstitutional appearance in the very name of the law. Namely, this is - a bill laying down certain responsibilities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Article 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 1, is prescribed, I will read to you -- "The status is the highest legal act of an autonomous province, which, under the Constitution, determines the competences of an autonomous province." There is no other general act, no other law, regulation, which can pass any assembly, which can determine the competences of an autonomous province. The constitution has prescribed that the competences of the Autonomous province are determined exclusively by the status of the Autonomous province, which must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and must have the prior consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else is stories for little kids. This law is a commercial law, according to the statements of Nenada Chanka, which engulfs us in the means of public information. The trade ran like this -- I voted for the Labour Act and they promised that by January 15th, there would be an autonomy of Vojvodina. They'll suffer the consequences of cheating in seven days. It's too bad there's no one who said this was the first step, and that's what I'm particularly worried about. What will the next steps look like? A statement on this law will not be a simple vote at all. It will remain for all time a listing on which our names will be entered, but according to how any of us voted. This law is separatistic, and I have to say, servile. Serbia was attacked by members of other nations, minorities, attacked by other countries, even the entire military alliances -- some Serbs have refused to participate in the defence of the country. This is the first time that Serbs attack Serbia, only because they live in one specific territory and only because you, my dear MPs belonging to the large DOS parties, have brought them into politics at a large door. Introduce minor political parties and minor political ideas to decide Serbia's fate. And, now, finally, if we let the cat skin the calf's head, that's about what it would look like. This law is historic. I look like the Bible story of a brother who was born thanks to his fifth brother, who he later killed. They held onto your fifth in the September 2000 election, and now they're destroying one party at a time, which pulled them out on a political scene. This law is ultimately threatening. You heard Mr. Chank who said-- if you vote this law we'll go peacefully by the Constitution to change, and if you don't vote... He's not finished. Well, I'm ordering Nenada Canka, if he wants to commit sins before his people and his country to redeem her, to kneel before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to kiss this sacred Serbian country, as his ancestors loved her at the beginning of the century when Serbia received them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16392	Reporting by the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan G. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16393	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for breaking Article 91. The Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 2, "If MPs from several parliamentary groups are reported for the debate", etc.; for the second time you have called MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia and not one from the Socialist Party. If you go in circles, then you should all participate in the first round, so change your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16394	Two criteria shall be taken into account when drawing up the list. This is the one you listed, which means by the size of the parliamentary group; you also have a member of 89 who says that the right to a word according to order is given by MPs, in turn, because they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word. Therefore, take care of both criteria. You have your order, and I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, both criteria are taken into account. Are you satisfied with the answer or should I put it to a vote? You're pleased. The People's MP Arsen Kurjački has the word, and after him is the National MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16395	The Honorable Presidency, honored guests, fellow MPs, put on the agenda of the Serbian Assembly of Law on the establishment of certain responsibilities of the autonomous province, followed military dictionaries, in Vojvodina, a systemic artillery preparation, as the multi-month media press release will say to the public about the need to transfer certain responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Most DOS parties, led by so-called Autonomous parties, in Vojvodina, are simply racing to highlight the necessity of "returning" the broad autonomy of the Vojvodina. Of course, not going deeper into the analysis of experiences from previous times, lightly and casually bid on powers -- similar to those of the SR Serbia Constitution since 1974 by the legislative, judicial and executive authorities. The executive council of the Vojvodina since its constitution has done almost nothing but find roads and ways to seize as much authority and functions of the Republic government as possible. The pressures from Vojvodina are particularly increasing in the second half of last year, right after the DOS presidency meeting in Novi Sad, where it was explicitly unanimously adopted to immediately approach the creation of a new Serbian Constitution. In this way, one of the DOS' pre-election promises to achieve the autonomy of Vojvodina, which no one disputes. The question is, why hasn't she joined this job yet? Who's supposed to be the bearer of this job? Instead of making a new, serious, comprehensive constitution as a fundamental act of our Republic, which would establish an institutional order i.e. the organisation of authorities and territorial organisations, reaching for a partial solution and temporary political settlements, and at the expense of a lasting and unique solution. Bringing a new constitution, naturally, follows and elections. All those who are not ready to examine their work and reputation with voters at this point, in every way possible, avoid the elections as soon as possible. Is that the answer to why you don't access a new constitution? The DSS won't participate in this kind of "sibic" policy-making. That is why we can no longer wait for those who, because of their personal and party interests, are holding back the fundamental redecoration of the state and systematic reform. That's why the DSS made the so-called. Basic principles for the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This constitution will enable: firstly, the rational decentralisation of state administration; secondly, regional autonomy; and, thirdly, developed local self-government. That's what we've always stood for. We propose that a significant part of the current state government be transferred to the regions and as such become their original workaround that regions carry out on their own. It represents such a form of decentralisation that essentially makes autonomy. So these are our suggestions that you can get to know, you all got them. The second part is entrusted with the powers exercised on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and under its supervision. The regions are directly represented in the National Assembly, in a particular council - a larger region. Radicals don't agree with this solution, but it's a matter of discussion. So, in this larger region and Vojvodina as one region, it can participate in creating central state affairs and making decisions relevant to the whole of the Republic, especially those of direct interest in regional autonomy and the interests of citizens living in them. We also predicted that autonomy regions express through legislative and executive authority. As for the legislative one, it is primarily meant by the laws of the region's jurisdiction. So this is essential decentralisation, we are in the DSS, but we are in favour, and that is the difference between us and others, that it is being implemented throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. One of the basic constitutional principles is that all citizens are equal in rights and obligations. No one can claim more rights than others, I guess that's clear to everyone and I don't think anyone can ask for it. Therefore, no one, nor the citizens of Vojvodina, can be more "equal" than other Serbian citizens. We want to make real, not just cosmetic changes in our society as soon as possible. That is why, among other things, we are criticising the government of the Republic of Serbia. How come it's this so-called now? "omnibus law" became a question of "life or death" for some parties? Autonomic parties, on the one hand, are criticising the proposal. Mr. Canak called it a common fraud. Mr. Isaac claims nothing special will change with it. At a session of the Vojvodina Assembly, they vote against this law. On the other hand, they are ultimately demanding that it be adopted in the Republic Assembly and threaten to deny the trust of the Republic government if that does not happen. What's behind this mess? It is clear to everyone that this law does not resolve any autonomy of the Vojvodina, nor will the citizens of Vojvodina have any improvement in their daily lives. That's the whole point of the story. The point is that a centre of power and decision-making is moving from Belgrade to Novi Sad. For Kikinda, Sombor, Subotica, we have heard Pancheva, all the cities and municipalities of Vojvodina, internally their citizens, it is none of what importance. All competences, mostly, are defined as trusted, not original, which is for real autonomy of crucial importance, and there are those who have put the remark really right. This law will be very difficult to do in due course to be operationalized and started to revive. Why is he still insisting on passing this law? For the reason that in the further procedure of changing the structure of the state, and without the adoption of a new Constitution, this will be the legal foothold of the advocates of further strengthening the autonomy of Vojvodina. When all competencies, even as trusted, are once transferred from the republican level to the province, and when funds and independent authorities of the administration are re-formed in the province, the relevant services, in due course we can expect to continue the pressure to increase the state-owned powers of Vojvodina, with the aim of, and the explanation, economic isolation, economic development, integration into European regional integration, etc., and the price for this would be - the gradual withdrawal of ties with other parts of Serbia and the destruction of Vojvodina, something similar to the recipe that was made in Montenegro. Well, so-called. Autonomous parties can't even blame this. They're just running their own drafts. The essential question is, what is the party policy that has the President of the Executive Council and the Republic Government? What about the parties that follow them unspeakably? How can one policy be run in Novi Sad and the other in Belgrade? Let's remember the vote of the Privatisation Act. How is it that representatives from the Regional Executive Council and the Republic Government agree and draft this law in Novi Sad, and now the government is coming out in Belgrade with this many amendments to this same proposal? How come we're not thinking about a new constitution, and this law is being made? It is clear to everyone that it is the most ground floor political trade, which has nothing to do with the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina. Political parties making up the Republic Government need to buy time for the implementation of the so-called reforms, which so far are mainly for the sale of social assets and privatisation. The Democratic Party of Serbia is experiencing a reform of society as a much wider and more complex matter than privatisation itself, against which, of course, we have nothing. The so-called autonomous parties need this law that does not really solve anything, but is in fact recognising the original political subjectivity of Vojvodina and as such will serve, unfortunately, to further decommission the state. So much for the essence and background of passing this law. As for the form, we have heard this from the predecessors, Mr Nikolic of the SPS explained it very well, this law is not known in theory or in practice of legal science. With one law to regulate 24 areas of economic and social life, change hundreds of applicable laws, it really deserves to enter the Ginis Book of Records. I'm gonna make a little fun of it, so I'm gonna say that we're almost celebrating with the biggest fish stew in Backo Palanca, and you're all familiar with it, and this is obviously going to be the biggest legal "choorbuljak" -- but that's still going to be very peppered later. Yesterday, on the Legislative Committee, a representative of the government admitted that this was a legal precedent, but he says, such precedents have been before (probably thoughts of the "legal specialis"). Does this mean that this government is the continuity of the previous one? The DSS will not participate in the adoption of this law for reasons I have already mentioned, as well as because it considers it a forced and hasty move. The move does not solve anything for the people of Vojvodina, and it can cause a poor political atmosphere in Serbia -- to produce certain animosities among citizens of central Serbia towards the Vojvodina, which without their will are placed in some more formally favourable position, which will essentially mean nothing to them. The DSS runs a single and comprehensive policy in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what part of the territory they live and work on. That's why our MPs won't support this quasi law. Just one more thing - how often a replacement of thesis is done in Vojvodina. We heard Mr. Chank say that the entire Vojvodina Assembly only has that weight as any of us MPs. And has there been any of us from the Duke? I am an MP from Vojvodina, and I think this is how Vojvodina is privileged to others, because it also has a Assembly of Vojvodina, which has a legislative initiative, and it has us MPs from Vojvodina, who also have this initiative. Therefore, it is not good to replace thesis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16396	Right on line, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to clarify some things, especially about what the predecessor was talking about and the SRS' position on the draft omnibus law. In fact, today we have listened to in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for lawyers, for those who understand what it was about, we have listened to several amazing things from people who would have to be the most competent when it comes to omnibus law and when it comes to the point on the agenda. We heard today that territorial autonomy, autonomous province, local community, local self-government is all the same, that decentralisation is the same as territorial autonomy, even as federalization (we heard it from the representatives of one of the autonomous parties). It's just, we've been listening to something that might go through with people who know tons, they don't know thanks to their education, but there's no need for them to know. But I guess the basic respect of the citizens is that whoever wants to do this, from this pay phone in this high house, to announce to the public, must know. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic cannot say, "In the local community, i.e. an autonomous province." It's not autonomous province of the local self-government unit. He had to know that in his first year of study, not as a doctor of science, because local self-government could be his municipalities and cuts, or the environment, not his territorial autonomy. That's what everyone who's read three pages from the Introduction right, not to mention something else. We can't talk about what will happen if regionalization is accepted, and we don't and we don't know what we're worth, which are our positive regulations in the AP Vojvodina. Is there anyone who can explain today, if we pass this law, what will apply in the territory of the Vojvodina? You have to know one thing - if an omnibus of the law is accepted, the norms of that law, which apply to the specific spheres of social life, are the back specialis of the already existing so-called so-called. Special laws governing these spheres of social life at the province level. Tell me, then, which norms will apply and which laws do the importance stop if this law is passed? (Listen to me, Mrs. Micic, you'll hear something good. It would be wiser to listen. So some of it won't be able to stay and survive in legal traffic. What won't be legal, what won't be legal? We're talking about something that represents legal form, but it's going to be a huge problem in law enforcement if such a law is passed. (President: Time. I'll finish, seeing that after two seconds you remember it's time. (President: It's not two, it's 20 seconds.) It's 20 now, and there were two when you remembered. That's the point. We here share four basic ideas in the National Assembly of Serbia: therefore, we have people who advocate territorial autonomy, but for lower authority and prerogatives than today, so I understand some opposition MP groups; we have MPs who advocate the widest autonomy, or some kind, even federalisation of the Republic of Serbia; we have the concept of regionalisation of Serbia, which I understand is DSS. Our concept is different from all three concepts. We stand for the only state of the Serbian people, but when I say a unique one, you cannot have territorial autonomy in a single state, you cannot go to federalization. Mr. Kostresh, there is no single federal state - the single state is rightly synonym for the unitary state, and the federal dwarve is synonym for the common state. (President: Mr. Wolf, fifth minute. When you go out and say things like that, you must know that, people must not be deceived.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16398	Right on the line, MP Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16399	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the presentation of the previous speaker, a lie has been made, and I must try to correct it. Mr. Kurjački quoted Mr. Isakov as saying that he quoted his statement which is absolutely correct -- "that this omnibus does not change anything significantly in the legislative and regulatory norm of the Republic of Serbia, and that it is not something too significant." At the same time, he said that the province's MPs, and I am, by chance, an MP of the province, did not vote in favour of the law in the District Assembly, which is absolutely incorrect. I voted in favour of this law, and it is very important that this law be adopted in this house, for one simple reason - which is to show the good will of the Republic of Serbia that it wants to regulate this country properly, rather than edit it as it is recommended. From this pay phone, we are advised that this country must be formed in a certain way, and that is precisely the representatives of those parties who do not have their own MPs in the District Assembly. I have no intention of calling them, but let them imagine what it means to them. Someone here also said, I have no intention of plowing with them, but I will take advantage of the opportunity because I have time, that the District Assembly is a set of small regional parties. That's absolutely incorrect. The circuit assembly is the DOS Assembly, which has an unobstructed majority, but a truly 100% majority. Please keep that in mind when deciding on the proposal of the DOS Assembly of the AP Vojvodina in the DoS Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16400	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic, and after that, MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16401	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's debate, and even these days in public, the law currently on the agenda is often called the law on the return of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina; I would say, some jurisdiction. I think that's actually the exact name of this law, because that's exactly what this is about, getting back. When we talk about coming back, we can't help but think about taking it away. There were words today about when this seizure happened, in early 1990 -- when the government tried to centralize everything; that from one center of power, from the top of that power, one man controlled everything and put everything under control and decided everything. I must say, at that time I was the director of a culture institution whose founder was the city of Belgrade, and together with most of my colleagues, I sought to keep all cultural institutions established by the Belgrade city in Belgrade's jurisdiction. We did a good job of it. Of course, it was about culture, and there was not so much effort to take over from the republican authorities. Apparently, our province has failed in that. I must say, there was nothing wrong with that, that cultural institutions remained in Belgrade's jurisdiction. On the contrary, I even think, having the experience of last year, that, with good co-operation with the Republic Ministry of Culture, it can only be a privilege. What we have in Belgrade, where we exercise one part of the founding rights over a number of cultural institutions, with co-operation with the Republic Ministry, can be a good model. I am fully convinced, and I have reason to say that this law is also written in that spirit, that it gives sufficient independence to the province's authorities and guarantees a unique system at the level of the Republic. Since, of course, I said I had cultural experience and I think I'm competent for this area, I'm not a Member of general practice and specialists for all the topics that are being discussed here, first of all I'm going to talk about this first section in the proposed law, and it's about culture. I'll say why I think the proposed law, when it comes to this area, is very good. Under one, this law is fully in line, thanks to one part and the amendments made by the Republic government, with all the individual laws in the field of culture: with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, and with a new proposal that is now entering the Assembly procedure; the Law on Cinematography; the Law on Library Action; the Law on the Matika of Serbian; I see that some MPs who have tabled amendments mess up a little bit, even though they do not know that there is this law. I would say, even with the Law on Realising General Interest in the Area of Culture, that's what the law is called, not the Law on Culture, the General Interest and the Area of Culture. Why do I even say that? Because that's the main one, let me also say the basic Culture Act, where all the institutions that are in the Republic's jurisdiction are listed. On the list of these institutions are the institutions and institutions of culture which, I say, return to the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina. In addition, the law does not contain any other cultural institutions that the Republic government, in its own time, has taken from the Belgrade city's jurisdiction. However, regardless of the list, the law also has one provision in Article 7 which says that one who mostly finances a culture institution has the right to take over founding rights. When this law is passed, institutions in the province's territory will be financed from the province's budget. This law will therefore also be in line with the Law on General Interest in the field of culture. In addition, to say that it is in preparation for a new law, given that this existing law will not be changed because it would suit the AP Vojvodina, but because this law is not good and that in its largest part it ceases to apply. Another thing that also makes me think that this law is good, which is the largest number of functions, except for a few electoral functions, to be trusted. So that's what we're talking about. The competent republican authorities shall have the right to monitor and control the work of the province's cultural institutions at any time. Not to be too much when they say, I've heard here and in previous some big words discussions, what does that mean, the formation of a new state, etc. Let's translate this into a specific and practical language, which means the competences established in this law and handed over to the regional authorities: the change of boards of directors, the appointment of directors, the provision of money for employees' salaries, for material costs, electricity, water, heating, part or full money for programmes. I find that both logical and rational. Why logical? Is it logical for the Republic government to appoint, for example, the director of the Vojvodina Theatre Art Museum? Then that director, of course, who works in Novi Sad, works at a bar, so to speak, in one city, and answers the Republic government. So, it looks local, it's global. I don't think it's much of a principle of responsibility. Why is it rational? You know how funds for cultural institutions are now going: the institution of culture writes a request to the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture writes a request to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance through Sunday, two, three, paying funds to the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Culture of the Institute. Which one of these benefits? PDO - commissions. Thus, the road is shortened, rationalised -- money from the province's budget directly into cultural institutions. Let's just say that there's a certain notional confusion in the fact that this law will put national interest at risk. Is the national interest in the appointment of directors, boards of directors and supervisory boards, the denial of salaries. Gentlemen, institutions of national interest are defined by the Law on the general interest in the field of culture: institutions of national interest are defined by other criteria, historical facts; based on their tradition, based on how many programmes and projects they have for the present; projects and programmes for the future; based on how much they affect a similar and related network of institutions in their immediate and continuing environment. Therefore, there can be no saying that this law endangers institutions of national interest. To be fair, when we call much on history, the fact: the majority, if not all the cultural institutions that are listed in the bill, is founded by the Province of Vojvodina. That's right. (From O.R.: It's not true. ) Prove that it is not true. One more thing for the end, if there is a Regional Assembly, the District Executive Council, organs and services, there are elections, all that costs and all that is paid. What doesn't exist? There's no jurisdiction, there's no job. We are, in fact, giving work to these laws and bodies of the District Assembly. Guys, there's work to do. It's also in culture. Believe me, for this mess and the fracture that we found after these ten years in the institutions of culture, it takes a lot of brooms and cleaning. Then this joint house of Serbia will be much cleaner and more orderly. I've read the law to the end. I believe that, with the adoption of certain amendments, it is necessary to vote for this law as well. I'll do it, and so will the MPs of my Democratic old lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16402	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and then Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time I wrote what I wanted to say from this pay phone. [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16404	Gentlemen, can we continue our work or set a break?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16405	There are two reasons: the first is that the new DOS Rules of Procedure have taken the time we need to be able to speak qualityly about the subject we want; the second is, which we, the Socialists, do not consider the issue of Vojvodina autonomy as a day-to-day political issue, but as a matter that requires a solution on one quality basis for a lasting time. The draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province (Vojvodine) represents the crown of pressure to extend the rights and responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, where the Constitution of 1974 is taken and used as a rapper. Such pressures carry a strong and clear trend of separation from Serbia and a conscious incentive to shut down the feelings of nationality. In doing so, the political objective is perfidously covered up and clouded by the insistence on economic benefits of restoring competence to the Vojvodina; economic arguments, i.e. The dirty and malicious media preparation of the political field -- that Vojvodina was economically robbed by the Republic of Serbia -- is covered up by separatist intentions, i.e. the desire to obtain as many pressures and political trades as possible for Vojvodina as possible, and to create as many institutions that characterise the state as possible, in order to bring the so-called "supervisory assistance" on the part of the so-called ". "A legitimate decision to secede the Vojvodina." The need to clarify certain issues in the areas of the autonomous jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province is set out in Article 109(1) point. 2nd and 3rd. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is undeniable, but it is a controversial way of doing so in one Republic law. An equivalent example of the violation of Serbia's Constitution is that in one single republic's law, certain issues of the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina in all eight areas listed in the Constitution of Serbia and also so many unlisted areas, which are set out in this law, which is now proposed. So, this law is pictured as a law of jurisdiction of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, such by the Constitution of Serbia is not possible at all. With the agreement of the Constitution of Serbia, it would be possible to: firstly, if a number of these issues, which are not within the legislative jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, were established in the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina; secondly, that individual republican laws governing certain areas, such as culture, education, social care for children, improving environmental protection, should be entrusted to businesses within the legislative jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. To do so with only one republican law, when there are already republican laws in all those areas, would mean the production of discrepancies and chaos in Serbia's legal system. So on the same issue, and in all the areas set out in this bill, it would be different solutions; one would be in the Republic law, and the other would be in the so-called The omnibus law. Among the specific issues listed in the 24 designated areas that would be entrusted to an autonomous province, a good number would be found that can really be regulated and carried out at regional level rather than at the central level; in many areas there is one issue that cannot be in the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, which is a matter of administrative oversight and at all control over the application of the relevant republican laws; only the right to exercise administrative control over the enforcement of its laws has and can only the Republic of Serbia. And finally, between the two conflicting attitudes -- that no autonomy should be required regardless of the motives that have affected this attitude; and that autonomy goes to that point to grow into an independent republic that can go into separatism -- the Socialists are for autonomy that does not undermine the foundations of Serbia's statehood in any segment, therefore, at no point distorts Serbia's integrity and sovereignty. Given the two basic principles advocated by socialists, solidarity and social justice, it is unacceptable, for socialists, to say that in some municipality that has an average personal income of two or three thousand, a child founding child or a high school with chalk on a wooden board writes and learns, and in the midst where 20,000 is the average personal income they do so on the most modern computers. Thus, the Socialists cannot accept this law that carries a scream or better say the accident that goes and leads to the breaking of a single Serbia, further dispersing the destruction of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16406	The People's Messenger Dusan Budishin has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16407	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think a lot has been said in the course of the discussion so far, but the right to tell you, I first saw this legislative proposal as purely esnaphic. In fact, long-term practice has made me think that as soon as a law comes out, I have to take it into my hands and see how it will be applied first. I read it very carefully. So all that is proposed -- as the findings say, and the resentments of certain opposition MPs -- will not be able to implement, or cause difficulties and chaos -- it stands. It's just standing there. This is the way it is, it's said, and I'm just going to repeat it - anti-constitutional. Why? First of all, if this wants to regulate at least 25 areas where there are specific laws and this way, then it has to create legal chaos. That's one thing. Secondly, if the Republic should pass on those prerogatives that itself does not have, then what it is is a violation of the Constitution. Finally, mentioning some new institutes, such as the Ombudsman, I don't know what it leads to when it's not in the Constitution. So just from a constitutional point of view, this can't go away. There's something else that's quite pointed out in today's discussion, and I'm sorry that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly said a lot of inaccuracies here, and then he got right -- not a threat; and that the threat, the people say, can't be afraid of a bear with a solution, but it's a big warning. I don't know who the warning is, whether MPs at all or just MPs of certain political parties. You see, one of my predecessors, my friends from the DSS, said that this law, or his suggestion of having had artillery preparations, was somewhere since autumn. I'd say that this artillery preparation doesn't last since autumn, it's been going on, straight, ever since the circuit assembly was established. Right away, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear with one - the circuit assembly simply does not reflect the political power of individual parties. That's true, and therefore, if we're referring to an absolute majority, then that's what we should consider. It is as true as it is true that the gentleman who spoke from this pay phone this morning, as well as his advocates and like-mindeds, do not represent the majority of the people in Vojvodina. We were thus represented in 1974, and we were to live in Vojvodina later in 1974, and see what this autonomic prosperity looked like. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, from certain courts in Vojvodina and typewriters were taken to Novi Sad, and I was always opposed to Belgrade, but now I don't need a new sedation. That's exactly what we've always claimed, I say and now, that all of this is one of the most ordinary political marketing because I can't assess it differently. We're passing one law, we're wasting our time in advance, admitting that it's counter-constitutional, and I'm only going to remind you of the tones that have been heard on the Legislative Committee. Please, the government's representative says it's a precedent. Can the law be precedentd? Then, it is said that this is necessarily evil - let's not play with the Constitution. This is about the state. The state obviously has a geographical concept for some of us. For me and my friends in the DSS state, it's something else, and that's why we're not gonna support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16408	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16409	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, in order to be in a political trend to demand autonomy, my colleague from New Democracy Dr Andric and I agreed to make a decision to form an autonomous area of Ostrižnica-Umka, to ask the Serbian government to negotiate the transfer of certain responsibilities. It has historical significance, so we will make such a request, because Osrežnica and Umka are known from the time of the Serbian struggle for independence, and the dereglias through the Sava were carrying out significant trade, military material, and groceries, between Austria and the then Serb areas. Perhaps our autonomous area could do trade with the future republic of Vojvodina, again through Sava. Now, let the joke be aside, to tell you the truth - some discussions here I was afraid of; I was afraid that they had more debates about the constitution and constitutional position than about the legal act; it made me think that maybe someone might not be afraid of future constitutional provisions and determining the new constitutional position and organisation of Serbia, so maybe he would want to get ahead of it, that something, God forbid, doesn't surprise him. I was particularly afraid because of the fact that a representative of the proposing, personified in the image of the president of the AP Assembly, warned the MPs of the Serbian Parliament -- if you do not adopt this bill, without the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we will turn the other list and otherwise discuss it. I am convinced that this law, as we discussed last night, will not be easily applicable without the adoption of amendments by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia participated in creating such a bill. And I was particularly surprised that a representative of a parliamentary group came out for this speaker and in support of the need to adopt this law and explain the political position of his party, he said: yes, we are for the Republic of Vojvodina. Now, that scared me and made me think -- should I, as an MP for DOS, vote for this law; but I will vote for it precisely because I belong to DOS, because I believe that those who fight for change, that those who advocate such attitudes do not have the majority support of the people of Vojvodina. And, at that very moment, I was forced by a famous people's saying, "the power without money is no power." And, the debate on this law needs to be aware of this need for the competent authorities of the Vojvodina to be determined and the appropriate means, in order to be able to exercise their powers, and the requirement to adopt individual amendments, which require control of the implementation of this law, are really illogical, because in this bill there are three groups of competences -- one group of original competences, another group of competences which determine this law and the third group of trustees, which the Republic of Serbia trusts in the enforcement of the AP Vojvodina authorities. For these reasons it is absolutely illogical to require that and control of the implementation of this law be given into the hands of the authorities of the province of Vojvodina. I believe that the people of Vojvodina will appreciate the acceptance by the Serbian government that even in this way, even in part, they will transfer the powers and partially make a promise from the DOS programme objectives to establish the autonomy of Vojvodina, although it seems more logical to me that it may have to wait another month. Because it will not be more than four months, and the constitutional position of both Serbia and the SRJ will be known, and then this can be resolved in a complete and comprehensive manner, so that everyone will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16410	The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16411	Dear colleagues, I am very unhappy that Mr. Chanak is not present at this session today, her sequel. It just shows how much he really cares about the law he proposed. If he meant it seriously, then there was an opportunity for him to sit here in the congregation and listen to us, to defend his proposal, so that he could say eventually what our remarks were and what we did. However, the relationship he demonstrates here towards the MPs is truly unserious. I think that today's debate on this bill is not about the fundamental debate on autonomy, but about the replacement of thesis; the replacement of the thesis is about redistribution, not about the assembly of autonomy getting real jurisdiction. If Vojvodina's autonomy were to be considered right, firstly, in the majority people, I think there should be a consensus on what the concept of autonomy is; then this law should be passed with at least two-thirds majority, so that we who get autonomy should be sure that we will enjoy these fruits of autonomy; not that from opportunity to opportunity, from the consolidation of political forces to the consolidation of political forces, to new agreements, it is possible that it is adopted by a simple majority, a simple majority, and abolishs. The next would be that autonomy is designed as real autonomy, the original right to collect income, and at least the right to veto the circuit assembly in relation to the decisions of this assembly. All of this is not in this bill, and therefore I think that this law is an opportunity only to redistribute the authorities of those who have come into the situation that the DOS majority, because of the political consolidation, is being blackmailed. So it's not about decentralisation, but I think it's about federalization; it's not about decentralisation, it's about decentralization of government; I'm going to show it on a few examples. First of all, it is the fact that the centre of power -- as well as those who think they are now the autonomous majority in Vojvodina, and we need to know that this assembly was the result of a referendum against Mr Milosevic after the 24 September elections, and the question is, in fact, what is the real relationship of force -- from Belgrade to Novi Sad. Because, my God, in Novi Sad, it's all about democracy, and for us, the minority, in this burst of democracy, it's going to be better than we are in this situation. Of course, I don't think so. If the District Assembly and the Regional Executive Council really meant real democratisation, and not just to take part of the government -- to be the boss and to arrange what I think I should do -- then, let's say, in school law, if I were to quote, probably not because you all know that, we would suggest leaving the state monopoly on primary and secondary education. The Law on Public Services states: "In order to ensure the exercise of the rights established by law and to achieve the second law of established interest in the area: education, science, culture, physical culture, student and student standards" etc. "the foundation of institutions"... It should now be added: "The establishment, company and other form of organisation for the performance of the work, i.e. the operations of Article 3 of this Law can be established: the Republic, the Autonomous Province, the City, the Municipality and other legal and physical persons". That's the point. If they really thought they were democratisation relations, not to move the centre of power and power from one place to another, then they would say in the field of education that there are religious schools, private schools, visual schools, mixed schools, etc. They do not care about democratisation of relations but care about transferring the decision-making and power centre from Belgrade to Novi Sad, while retaining the state monopoly over the education sphere. If the Law on Public Services also provides a private initiative, then why the Regional Executive and Regional Assembly, if they really want us well, does not foresee and add that private elementary schools can be established, as I think is normal, or religious elementary school. What was wrong with Milosa Crnjanski going to the pyrist gymnasium in Timisvara and becoming and remaining one of the best Serbian writers? He didn't miss anything, of course. Or, the Law on Local Self-Government: if we really thought we were democratisation of relations then we would explain to the present municipalities -- which as a set of multiple settlements are also not compatible with the system that we have in Western Europe -- that every populated place, every settlement, which meets certain criteria (and we could talk about it -- which are criteria) has its own bodies of local self-government and, according to the principle of democratisation, that they could, say, establish schools or establish a network of schools. If the Regional Assembly and the Executive Council really care about democratisation, then according to the National Minorities Act, which is being prepared at both federal and republican level, they would suggest that the network of primary schools determine or propose advice from national minorities. What is better for national minorities if the Serbian majority in Novi Sad (excuse this expression), since, my God, it is more democratic than the Belgrade Serb majority, determines that network, if minority members are not the subject of decision-making, teaching programmes or writing textbooks, than they are the subject of legal practice. That's the essential question. Since all these objections are gone there, then it's obvious that the intention and desire is to transfer the center of power from one place to another. To the classic question: and where our money is, we will now get the answer - not in Belgrade but in Novi Sad. And to that classic question, I don't want that kind of answer, but I want the answer -- that our money in Sainta, Ada, in Bačka Petrova Selo, Gradište, Zrenjanin, in Vienna, etc. Therefore, I am not satisfied with the answer - The New Sad is just as strange to me as my "foreigner" and Belgrade, because it is decided there on my behalf, or on our behalf, without my presence or consent. And now you're going to say that, of course, that the autonomy of Vojvodina, as it is predicted here, is also given because of the members of the national minorities. What is provided for in this law does not solve open and unresolved issues of national minorities. It addresses the issues of that political establishment, of those minority members, who support this concept because of their political stay in life, both because of money and personal interests. But for minority members, this is when, eventually, it will be a different sign of power in Novi Sad than the omens of government in Belgrade, and the province's secretary and minister in agreement will have to make some decisions, it will be devastating and it means nothing. So, members of national minorities, the states must trust themselves to settle the issues that are of the highest interest to them: to take political responsibility for what they are doing before this assembly. This way, by transferring downtown from Belgrade to Novi Sad, again, someone decides on our behalf the way we would possibly not want to. I have to say that this is the concept of autonomy, and those who advocate it, out of time and out of space; that those who advocate this have no sense of time or space. The autonomy of Vojvodina and Kosovo has been devised, we speak very openly, to keep Belgrade in subjection -- in a situation where time and space outside support: Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. But that thing's gone. In this situation, we have to apply some other concepts. For minority members, this thing solves ethnic autonomy, the autonomy of those settlements where the minorities are in the majority and autonomy as their collective right, which, among other things, is placed in the Law on Local Self-Government at the point of 37th and 38th, and the cleaning of cemeteries, municipal inspection and are similar to the fifth or sixth points. One of the members of that task force was also one of Vojvodina's members. And finally, to this situation, the government of Mr. Djindjic has brought its unnecessarily agreed policies to the Democratic Party of Serbia, because the time in the government is an hour outside the government, the hour is stabilising the government, the hour does not stabilise and gives opportunity to all those who support this model by learning, those who think it is possible to resolve the autonomy of Vojvodina. Therefore, if there is no serious agreement between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, as it is obviously not there, then each time this government will be exposed to the situation that someone who is politically insignificant and has some other ideas destabilizes in a way that does not agree with all of us. So I think there are better solutions -- that it would possibly be best if this law were withdrawn from the procedure if Vojvodina didn't get what's called essential autonomy; I said on what principles -- combined with the right of ethnic autonomy for members of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16412	The word has the People's MP Predrag Patic, followed by Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, now on the agenda of the topic -- the return of autonomy, as my colleague Gorica Mojovic said, was the return of competence to the province of Vojvodina, the responsibilities taken in the early 1990s, when Milosevic decided to solve the situation in the country; so he started to sort out the situation in Kosovo a little bit, so it got a little thick, they dug up the war axes; well, let's go north a little bit, throw away two crates of yogurt and chocolate milk and get the crew in Vojvodina. Of course, it wasn't a good way to do it, and it turned out for the last 10 years. This is the time when jurisdiction returns and when this whole atmosphere of restoring jurisdiction to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina is burdened by this situation and by thinking about that time -- as it used to be. It is one test for the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, a test for the Executive Greater Vojvodina, because now it is up to them to show that the return of jurisdiction to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is a matter of decentralisation which is essentially good, which concerns the approximation of the authorities to citizens; which should also ensure a faster solution of problems in these 46 municipalities as many as there are in Vojvodina. In this way, the municipalities located in the territory of Vojvodina need to be faster and simpler to solve their problems in these areas where their rights are being returned. So that's the point and that's the test. My predecessors who came from Pancheva talked about it: the autonomy that existed certainly did not provide equal treatment for all the municipalities in Vojvodina and if no equal treatment is provided for all the municipalities in Vojvodina - this return of jurisdiction will not be worth anything. Then very soon, because we know what a poor functioning of autonomy means, it will appear in this case the Pancians who will ask where our money is; there will be municipalities that will search for some of their rights. To remind ourselves, only in previous autonomy did we have a situation that patients had to, if the home hospital couldn't provide them with an appropriate service, go to Novi Sad to be treated; the graduate high school students had to enroll in the schools in Novi Sad -- of course it was bad and should not happen again. So this is one test, one ID, which will show the way and give the green light for further decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia and in this section regarding the Vojvodina; and what is more important is the descent of the authorities to the level of municipalities, where it should be essential.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16414	The word has a folk MP Dragan Markovic, after him Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16415	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this law for any number of reasons. The law reminds us of 1974, when Albanians in Kosovo spoke -- Trepca for its sake, Belgrade is being built. We know today what happened to Cosmet and what happened there over the past ten years. First comes economic independence and later territorial independence and independence. I must remind the legislator that no minor problem exists in the towns of Pomoravska, Rasinski, in the Shumadian County, from the cities of Vojvodina. All right, and we agree with decentralisation, not to sell factories first, and then to decentralisation later. When we sell those successful factories, we transfer all the money to Belgrade, what will remain to those cities, only those factories that have failed. The Serbian Unity party expected the legislator, Mr. Dragan Veselinov, who is in charge of the agricultural portfolio, to realise what he promised all citizens in Serbia, and especially to those citizens in Vojvodina, not to represent one bill that leads to the secession of Serbia's work from Serbia. Mr. Vesenov may have been supposed to realize, and that the citizens of Vojvodina are satisfied, as well as the other citizens of Serbia, the price of the sunflower he promised; and not only did he promise, but it was the decision of the Republic and the Federal Government to make the price of the sunflower 15 dinars; he paid the sunflower at the price of 12,00 dinars. Also, Mr. Minister Vesenov should have realised the price of the grain he had promised in December, before his appointment and before he was in charge.... Mr. Markovic, please return to the topic of the agenda. I'm talking about the legislator, what should the legislator suggest and what to do, Madam Chairman. Mr. Vesenov was supposed to respect that price and make the price of grain 11 dinars, which was promised. Also, in this law in Article 41 concerning agriculture, there is no tax on what it is that farmers in Vojvodina will have from this law. I can tell you - nothing. Only one sentence said that the agrarian budget would solve the problem of agricultural producers in Vojvodina. He did not taxively state, Mr. Minister, that it is necessary to lend credit to these agricultural producers, that they should be helped - and not only to say that we, or agricultural producers, in this year had the highest price of grain in Europe, and that he did not say that agricultural producers in the Netherlands, Germany, Austria have much better conditions than farmers from Serbia. Also, Mr. Minister didn't foresee in this law to pay off sugar tails to farmers. Let's leave these farmers in Pomoravska, Rasinski and the Shumadian district now, he never took care of them; but he didn't take care of where his party lives and works in Vojvodina. The previous speaker, a member and president of a national minority party, Mr. Pal Shandor, was realistic and said that this law by the national minority in Vojvodina did not give them anything. Only individuals get it, because those individuals representing DOS in Vojvodina know, if they go to the polls themselves, they won't get 2% of the votes in Vojvodina, and that's one reason. But you can see how Mr. Canak acted this morning after this pay phone. He knows with a stick to hit the national mark, to spit -- and there was a Prime Minister sitting in front; and imagine that the Prime Minister said he wouldn't accept this law, he might get a stick in his head. Why aren't they present today, both of them? Because the Prime Minister told him -- don't worry about anything, you'll be given the law; because it depends on several parties who live and work in Vojvodina, they have 19 MPs in this assembly, and if their bill is not accepted, the government will fall, and we, from the Party of Serbian Unity, say the government should fall. This government has done nothing for Serbian citizens, both in Vojvodina and in other Serbian cities, and therefore we will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16416	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov, after him Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16417	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I want to talk about the work of this law regarding the field of sports. I support the proposed solutions in this law because they form part of Serbia's decentralisation and new organisation process as part of pre-election promises. Ten-year centralised financing of the area has damaged sports in Vojvodina. For years, the sport of Vojvodina has been adorning: tradition, number, or variety of sports branches, organisation, mass and quality. During that period, no programmes of professional and border alliances of Vojvodina, covering primarily work with younger categories, have been financed. These are sports schools, youth sports camps, competitions of the province level. Secondly, the school sport is centralized, so canceled, and so on. Sošov, (Sports Olympics of Vojvodina School Youth), competitions in which many future Yugoslav representatives and Olympic medalists performed as members of their school teams. Thirdly, maintenance and construction of spotter facilities - so many public sports grounds are abandoned and out of use; spotter halls and school halls without basic conditions for use, without heating, appropriate lighting, with roofs that leak; are based without water and heating. With the proposed solutions in this law, the autonomous province will take over all the authorities that now have the authorities of the Republic in the field of sport -- above all, it will determine the interest of the citizens in the field of sport in the territory of the Autonomous province and provide funds for the achievement of that interest. Out of great importance for the development of sports in Vojvodina will be the return of funding from the programme of members of the Vojvodina Sports Union, which generates the interest of citizens in sports in Vojvodina from the Autonomous Region budget. The Vojvodina Sports Union, which includes 32 professional border alliances and 25 municipal sports alliances, is a form of sport organisation in Vojvodina and is a member of the Sports Union of Yugoslavia. Transferred competencies and entrusted jobs in the field of sports to an autonomous province will surely speed up the development of sports in Vojvodina, which, with representative programs and top-notch sports, which are in the authority of the Republic and the federal state, will certainly contribute to our sport being the most developed activity, and athletes are the biggest ambassadors of our country. The law is only the beginning of a full autonomy of Vojvodina, which is a matter of democracy, democracy, economic and civilization for all its citizens, with hopes of achieving autonomy within modern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16418	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, followed by Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16419	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, according to the current Rules of Procedure of this assembly, this proposal, with this title, could not, on any basis, be the subject of the debate, more specifically, to be on the agenda. In Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly are clearly said that any proposal coming on the agenda of this assembly must be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal, addressed this way, is counter-constitutional. They are called upon by members of the Constitution 108 to 112 and Article 72. The promoter himself admits that breaking the Constitution wanted to force a debate on this matter at all costs. This document also means proof of pre-election fraud made by DOS in Vojvodina. Here, gentlemen, you've made it clear that everything you've been telling the citizens of Vojvodina in the election campaign, you've been lying, you've been cheating, there's been no truth at all. You are citizens of Vojvodina, as a unique DOS, as a company that was called DOS, led by Kostunica, told you that you want a single Serbia, you want a single state that will be rational, cheap, which will be the custom of the citizens of Vojvodina. What you're doing with this proposal - you're making it clear that everything you've been saying was just an empty promise and now you want to complicate the lives of the people of Vojvodina. How? With the story of economic independence, you clearly show how much only the people of Vojvodina will cost this economic independence. To tell the story of economic independence, and to impose or make preconditions for paying another fee, because this means that after establishing another level of government, in this case of the province, you have to give them original incomes. The original revenues are in a new form of tax and tax. So, the one who lives in Vojvodina, if this document is adopted, will have to pay a municipal tax, a regional tax, and remain a republican and federal tax. Is that the economic independence of the people of Vojvodina? How much do they have to pay? Why didn't you do that bill? Now you're telling a story in style that is being placed by the Democratic Party, which is the main bearer of these activities. The public lives in delusions that they think the main actors are such ideas of the autonomous party. No, the main actors of this idea are members of the Democratic Party that make up, and thus, a significant factor in the Vojvodina Assembly, especially in the Serbian Parliament. Now tell a story - why don't you trust yourself in the field of culture to an autonomous assembly that she chooses directors; it's a replacement thesis. A colleague who was here has experience, knows that communists developed a Serbian national being in Vojvodina and what their main goal was in Vojvodina: church, cultural wealth and cultural institutions. That was their goal. Don't use counterfeits. The Vojvodina Museum is the oldest institution that Serbs have established as a museum of Serb peoples in Vojvodina -- not telling stories. Those who brought Vesna Snakec, Vesna Chipčić, to Ivan Stambolic today lecture us on culture. Is there a culture in that ham? The same scenario is repeated. The story continues - the protection of the rights of national minorities. Well, didn't you get experience from 1974? Most people's rights of the minority have been potentiated, and this has been the effect of "divine and rule". What do you want now, the same thing. At the heart of the Serbian majority, you are potential minority rights in order to have a fight within the Vojvodina. You of the Democratic Party take care, the history of the Vojvodina repeats itself on you. You are some legal heirs to your Stajic. Look at the mistake he made, learning from his mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16420	The word has a folk emissary, Marijan Rističević, and after that, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my speech with one question -- what would you give me today if we could return Kosovo and Metohija to Serbia's constitutional -- legal position, to any constitutional and legal position of Serbia? They would give me a lot if Kosovo could return to the Serbian Constitution as an area with the highest degree of autonomy. It is those who disputed the autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija and the autonomy of Vojvodina that are the most responsible for the loss of Kosovo and Metohija. In the heat of today's patriotic speeches, I asked myself, "God, who defended us, we did well." Now I come to ask them not to defend us anymore, especially because I come from Vojvodina. I could ask them not to defend Vojvodina in the way they defended Kosovo and Metohija, not to guard Serbia's state unity. We know very well, and someone mentioned today's listing, to see who voted. I can request a list of March 23rd, see who he is and how he defended Kosovo and Metohija, risked and lost, and now he thinks he has a vision of defending Vojvodina in the same way. Someone here said that Vojvodina was Serbia when Serbia was not Serbia. That's right. That's what one of our supposed politicians said. The Serbian Duchy was a reconstruction of the Serbian state. To agree immediately - Vojvodina in Serbia as an autonomous area, with the degree of autonomy agreed here and agreed on in Serbia's future constitutional-political redecoration. The Duchess will have such a position as we agree. It's not the time for conflict, it's not the time to argue. We agreed, Vojvodina in Serbia as a whole. She's got her own self-involvement. They're supposed to be exhibited in one territorial autonomy. We of the Vojvodina Coalition claim that Vojvodina has even the right to bring laws and regulations into the future, but only from areas from which it achieves autonomy. All the most important laws regulating the issue of state unity will be passed by the Serbian Parliament. The power needs to be shared. It is obvious that the centralization we had for the past ten years has not preserved Serbia. We lost Kosovo. The increased centipede force damages as much as the centrifugal strength. Both must be aligned, that powers be transferred, and jurisdiction, that power be extended, and the state is not broken. The state needs to be balanced. We are witnessing that this solid state, allegedly state-owned, Serbia's unity has not produced economic results either by Vojvodina itself or by Serbia itself. Don't ask the Duke! If Vojvodina develops faster than other regions in Serbia -- capital knows no borders, other parts of Serbia will develop. Vojvodina will be a locomotive that will drag Serbia into Western Europe, where it belongs. Let's also agree that the Serbs are the majority in Vojvodina, but we in Vojvodina, that's what history, tolerance, we count ourselves national. We stand for civil equality, we of the Vojvodina Coalition, are not even for ethnic autonomy. It's wrong, it's bad for the minorities themselves -- to do the ghettoization. We are for civil equality in Vojvodina. Why be afraid of that? Why are we afraid that we Serbs are the majority in Serbia? If we Serbs in Vojvodina are not afraid, why are you Serbian? Paraphrases of an even more famous Serbian politician. When you ask us: why do you Serbs in Vojvodina need to have any degree of autonomy towards Belgrade, to ask you immediately: why these same famous Serbian politicians who have said, that they are now not allowed to go to Montenegro, that Montenegrins and Serbs are of national values, today do not at all dispute that Montenegro, the most Serbian part of the Serb family, protects themselves from Belgrade by state. If they stayed in the Federation, many would be pleased. They protect themselves from Belgrade by state, and often rule in Belgrade. Why don't we Serbs in Vojvodina, if we're already dividing on ethnic issues, protect ourselves with one autonomy, which we'll take care of naturally created good and public funds -- we won't be a state, we won't be an army, it's all ours. You refer here to the Constitution of Serbia. You said this was the opposite of the Constitution of Serbia. It's not. This is just an initial and transitional solution that is applicable precisely on the basis of that famous 1990 Constitution. So he makes it possible and some powers are determined by that law and by that constitution. Some responsibilities, most are transferred, and the supervision is carried out by the Republic. Whoever's been reading it carefully has noticed - nothing is being solved here. The new constitution will resolve the issue of Vojvodina and many other issues. Why so many shouts today. Let's go back to that constitution, the famous democratic achievement, as one said. Is it democratic? He says it's democratic when it's a three-step division of power. It was like that, it was divided into Slobin, Meerina and his, so it's democracy. Each, he says, the communist constitution was fascist, except for the 1990 Constitution, which is a democratic achievement for it. How's that? He too was brought by the Communist congregation. He forgot that. Why so much panic. Vojvodina will be in Serbia as a whole. There's nothing to be afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16422	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16423	On page 21. The draft law, Articles 41 and 42 b) of agricultural land, is said to be an autonomous province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of agricultural land; it adopts a programme of protection, use and regulation of agricultural land for the territory of the autonomous province. In the case of Marijana Risticevic, this is what it looks like: the powers of Marijan Risticevic of certain Željko Krmar to arrange with Radovan Nesovic of Perlez for the Association of Peasants Indjied, this is arranged by about 300 hectares of the country with heavy machinery. Namely, for the Union of Indji's peasants. This was, I think, in Banatski Brestovac, if I'm not mistaken; this unfortunate Radovan Nesovic was given the name of the service performed by Marijan Rističević, who manages the cooperative (I don't know which one of you authorized him), that in one part of the land, about 70 hectares, when all the arrangements and sowing, sowing and self-suncot. When the time came to harvest and the man came with a combination in the field, a sunflower was removed in his field. Downloaded by Marijan Risticevic. The disappearance of a 1,700,000 dinar sunflower has been reported to the MUP, Panchevo. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] At the same time, I have information for an orchard that was robbed by Marijan Risticevic in the same way. (Marian Risticevic, from the O.R.: I didn't mention him.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16424	Excuse me, sir, Risticevich, you've caused a replica. He mentioned the SRS. I'm sorry. Please don't throw it away. Are we going to give you any warning about the uninterrupted throw, will you? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Warning, Mr. Alexander Wolf, I'm giving you a warning because you're flaunting me from the scene, and I've warned you nicely not to throw I gave him the right to a replica because you caused the replica, now you have no right. [[Alexander Vukic, from the place:I'm looking for a replica.]] [[Marian Risticevic: You gave him a replica based on my presentation.]] [[Alexander Vukic, from the site: Looking for a replica, give me a replica.]] There is a word from MP Zivodarka Dacin, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) It's my discretionary authority, see Article 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure's injuries to discretion are not available. You'll get another warning because you're flaunting yourself. Here you go. Here, you have a word. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16425	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, after 16 months of DOS rule, very hasty, in addition to the apparent and very transparent problems in the state of Serbia, such as: further drastic decline in economic production; the sale of factories; a large number of people without work, with a tendency to increase from day to day; a decline in living standards; not to mention that it may have been a very appropriate topic of this extraordinary session and debate on how Serbs and other non-Albanian ethnic communities live in Kosovo and Metohija; and we put the draft law on the agenda of the extraordinary session, so-called. The omnibus of the law, the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. My first question is, why doesn't it say which autonomous provinces? It's true, we know it's about Vojvodina, but why it's not written like that; or there's room left for saying all those who today-to-morrow, by this principle, can demand their autonomy. In the light of the Bill's proposal, the Constitution is mentioned - lawyers, people of the profession, claim that this lot of laws, calling on the Constitution, violates the constitution on its own. What I especially like here in this assembly is that MPs of the DOS sometimes, when it suits them, invite the Constitution that the Socialists have brought; and then when it doesn't suit them, then they don't have to legally coordinate with the same one. I think the adoption of this omnibus law opens up a series of partial problems, but I'm going to rely on where we're all sensitive, and that's health. Health care in Serbia, as well as in Vojvodina, is what it is. The money's gone, and I don't know how to keep them until we've increased economic production. Since the Autonomous Province Law proposal provides for opening, setting up new institutions, creating a new schedule for the health network, I wonder where the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina will get enough funding and whether someone has put on the paper how much money it takes. On the other hand, in a very unfavourable position insurance companies, i.e. Serbian citizens from Vojvodina, at least for the use of health insurance. You know, we remember that time. Until a few years ago, practically all treatment instructions outside the territory of local municipalities in the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina could only be certified for examinations at clinics in Novi Sad, according to the principle that duchy couples do not spill out, not to go to Belgrade, but to stay in Vojvodina. Please, none of us have the right to deny the right to health care and also the use of health insurance of any citizen of our Serbia, whether it is located in Serbia's most developed municipality, so if you want Vojvodina, whether it is located in the most underdeveloped municipality. If we look at us health workers and associates, it says in the bill that God will set up a circuit commission with expert specialization exams. Please do not be fooled, it exists today; but there is also a significant difference: what is today a matter of free choice whether someone from Kickinda will professionally perfect himself in Novi Sad or Belgrade, whether they will pass their professional or specialist exam in Novi Sad before the commission or before the Belgrade Commission; and tomorrow, I am sure, it will not be so. On the other hand, analogous to this, who is who can deny our children's education from Vojvodina, that schools and studies are their matter of choice. I know children who are perfecting and learning in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, but it won't be like that tomorrow. I'd just like to make this argument to support the fact that up to a few years ago, by the same principle, all of us who were professionally qualified and enrolled in postgraduate studies, and we came from the Vojvodina municipalities, had to be directed towards Novi Sad. It is written somewhere in the explanation that this is all done because the province best knows some traffic destinations in the province itself and the schedule of health institutions. But, please, which one of us today doesn't know what destination is. We healthcare professionals know every day in every place in Serbia when the machine works, where we can guide the patient and do him that basic health care service, help him and save his life. You know, in that time, and the Pančevci, for which we can say by some traffic destination that they are located in the suburbs of Belgrade, they had to go to Novi Sad because of this autonomous policy; in this financial, normally, than the travel costs themselves, there was much more expensive enrollment every semester for specialization at the University of Novi Sad than Belgrade. Much more could be said, but the fact is that the bill definitely destabilises Serbia. In addition to all the accumulated problems, there is already a problem of Vojvodina that has been present in public for quite some time. Please, definitely, the Socialists are for the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina, but not in this way. We are for the right autonomy of Vojvodina, but in a single Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16426	MP Alexander Vukic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has given himself the right to break, once again, the most important sublegal legal act adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, when I asked for and answered for the word for injury to the Rules of Procedure, she did not give me a word, even though she had to give me a word before the previous speaker. Also, she gave me a warning according to only her known right, and it's known that the right or not knows it, or she remembers it very badly and very badly. In fact, Article 103 states: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly." Did I do it or someone else? The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia warned me to take more money from the SRS, to take money from people's representatives whose opinion she does not like and thinks she will silence them. He thinks he'll tell them afterwards - you can't and you can't say what I like. The obligation of the president of the National Assembly was for this reason to give a warning, not because I had pointed out her obligation, not using any ugly word, not by any rude expression, not by any rude means, not by any other means, except by trying to show her what the right, legal and normal conduct of the National Assembly president was. What you mean by racketeering and kidnapping, by being someone now, you're very smart, very powerful, and now you're taking money I'm telling you, that money won't stop us from saying what we're thinking, it won't stop us from pointing to your right and to your legal conduct, to your unfair and illegal behavior. But don't forget one thing today, the way you're acting out of love, today as you recite people's MPs who think differently, and it doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it won't last long, it won't last forever, don't forget that. From this congregation booth, you give people warnings just because they think otherwise. Last time you gave me a warning just because I paid you what you charged me for, for nothing else, and I didn't say a word to you. Rest assured, it will come back to you, Mrs. Micic, and it will return to you very soon; I guarantee you, you will return all of this to the peoples of the Serbian Radical Party, and all else, you will pay for all this you are doing to the entire Serbian people... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... And that time will come, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16428	I'm obliged to give you an answer, Mr. Wolfie, Article 103, that's my obligation, you know, to respect the Rules of Procedure, unlike some others. Article 103: "The warning is given to the MP", not only because he approached the speaker without permission from the National Assembly, it was not the case, but if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech." And who was the speaker then? I'm also a speaker, do you understand, I was a speaker, I'm also a speaker and I'm a MP, you understand? Also, you have Article 97(2), which says: "In breach of the Rules of Procedure are not considered decisions of the National Assembly and of the President of the National Assembly to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure". You've been throwing away all day, I've only given you one warning, and I could also give you a warning because you violated this Article in Section 97 because it's not a injury, but I'm going to be tolerated, so I won't. National MP Aleksandar Vucic requests that the National Assembly declare whether there is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, which he has pointed out, although it does not exist, because it is discretionary authority, according to Article 97(2), which I have read to you. Read Article 97(2). For 52, against 92, two abstentions, they did not vote 42, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 has been committed by MP Aleksandar Vukic. I give my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16429	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, quite certainly, my finding that this is one of the most difficult assembly sessions of this call to the Republic Parliament, a session where it is spoken in a scary language, will be supported by the record and the stenogram; I think that such a thing is very worrying and not good. We are MPs who have been elected by citizens and we must choose very carefully the words and context in which we put them, as well as take care of the atmosphere that we create with our behaviour. And the opposition and position, each in their own way, is looking for political space, but I think that our common tragedy, among other things, is that we are still wandering at the level where all the arranged societies have long found a consensus of quality answers to all the difficult questions. I think today's agenda is really serious, but first of all, in the sense that it breaks down a psychological barrier that existed on these premises, which exists today between us and which must be carefully decomposed. Otherwise, we wanted to admit it or not, it's very difficult to avoid a common impression and an assessment of which today's arguments and counterarguments are only by changing geographical terms and terms, without special torment, able to go back ten years; and imagine what kind of words, which we were then listening to, were pronounced and what they had consequences. I think it's clear that there are forces in this House trying to keep the existing social framework, at least as far as the problems we're talking about today -- there are forces that want to change it, and at least in this other case it's a double approach. I think that as the DOS parliamentary group, we are obliged to point out to the citizens of Serbia the real problems that exist both in the Vojvodina area, and in all other areas, which we as parliament must address. We have been treating the problem of southern Serbia over the past year, we have discussed Kosovo; we have had assembly sessions where we have dealt with the reform package in the tax system; we have been dealing with labour relations reforms; we have been dealing with economic, privatisation reforms, etc.; and it is not logical to ignore the very clear and concretely visible problem situation in the Vojvodina area. We are a congregation that must first answer the question - whether it is able to apply the existing Constitution to the extent that it was defined in 1990 or not; whether we have a desire to do something like that or not, and to see why our positions are so unwavering and unchangeable. DOS wants to build an efficient society, and an efficient society can only rest on citizens' trust. When we talk about the transfer of power from Belgrade to Novi Sad, it is in itself not something that is compromising, nor something that is worrying, because in Novi Sad too there are representatives of our parties and in Novi Sad living people who, by the nature of human relations, must be considered reasonable and responsible, and not quite the opposite, as it has often been today. So when we talk about omnibus law, we are talking about harmonising the autonomous interests that exist in the Vojvodina area and that are different from the interest in southern Serbia or, say, in Belgrade, with interests that must be part of our state community and system that we are not changing today. We're talking education, we're talking public information, we're talking pension insurance, we're talking health insurance, and let's ask one question first -- why would a duchy town have more rights than the Vojvodina Assembly? If we agree that there should be one congregation of the municipality right to establish a local means of public information, and the duchy parliament is not, let's let someone come out here for a assembly pay phone and say, "It's up to the Vojvodina Assembly, but it doesn't say that in this constitution." So, in the constitution signed by Zoran Sokolovic, it doesn't say that. It doesn't even say in the constitution that the DSS offered us. On the contrary, in this new proposal, the constitution states - the Duke's times six, not one temptation, but six congregations, not one right, but six rights. I don't think the politicization of this segment of our work today is good because this society is burdened with frustrations from the past ten years, which we don't need much time to spend today, because they're part of our history, but we can't forget these consequences. I think that none of you, especially those living in the Vojvodina area, doubt that there are responsible and competent people in that environment, who will respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and implement those laws in their environments, while taking care of local interests. Through the Law on Local Self-Government, which is before us at this session of the Republic Parliament, we will further strengthen local self-government and thus strike a balance. But the words of the dukes, the Serdari, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the boundaries where they were never there, are actually a return to a past where no one was happy, and I think, among other things, that this Parliament and the relationship in it are actually a finding of a need for a serious change. If that need exists, then let's see how we can get to that need. In the first step, we can come if we introduce ourselves as responsible people. This omnibus law was to be passed a year ago. We didn't bring it back then. If we didn't bring it back then, we are bringing it today because no one can guarantee that in three months we will have a new republican constitution, which will make it impossible for the further development of the problems that exist in this segment of our society and which in itself must be the subject of our attention. When examples are cited, it is often called for to save some past association, so it is said - will we from Panchev have to go to Novi Sad, to school in Novi Sad, will we from Panchev have to go to the doctor in Novi Sad? Well, this isn't the country anymore. You from Panchev can also go to London to see a doctor if you want; you can study in Paris, you can go to Belgrade; nowhere is this law challenged; but let's not sow fears in a country that is terrified, because that way we will do much more harm to ourselves than anyone has done in these ten years. This omnibus law must receive the support of the DOS parliamentary group, because in itself it relieves the kind of obligations it is unable to respond to. The Republic's authority shall not be liable to carry out that type of obligation arising at this time from the status of the province. It's not acceptable for us to deal with libraries in the Vojvodina area. Imagine a paradox that the Republic determines a librarian in a library in Vojvodina, not the National Library in Novi Sad, but Kovil? It's impossible to change that the Republic determines the number of departments in each school. These are heritage that are not good and I think that, on the one hand, we are doing favors to those who are at this moment trying to profit from the political context of this law, but at the same time this is a brave act that citizens will be able to appreciate. Today we will do so in the space of Vojvodina, as we previously solved problems that existed in other parts of our country, and I believe that very quickly through a coherent constitution, which will not be the subject of party positions but of general consensus, we will be able to close once and for all that kind of political topic that responsible states and serious peoples do not run from decade to decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-22-0.u16430	Thank you. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at ten o'clock. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 171 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilic, Miomir Tadic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Ratimir Svirčević, Srdjan Sikimić, Jelena Milenkovic; in the morning Milena Andrić. I hereby inform the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Secretary of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, acting as the mandated representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who has submitted the draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is provided for the 2nd item of the agenda of this sitting. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" to this session. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF AUTONOMAL CONTINUATION LAW We continue the discussion in principle. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word for the MP Borislav Pelevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
