ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that before considering this item of the Assembly's agenda, it would have to determine the irregularity of the conditions in which the session is held, and since it is contrary to the express provisions of Article 103. The rules of procedure were taken away yesterday and the day before yesterday by a total of 18 SRS MPs. I'm not informing you, I'm finding a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In parallel, there is an incredible campaign in the media against the SRS, and the SRS are tied hands. I suggest first... Would you be kind enough to listen? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] You know, there was a campaign yesterday that five people from the SRS were caught smuggling explosives. These people are not from the SRS and were arrested on January 14th, and on February 14th, they were all released from prison. There was only one member of the SRS and until September he was in security, when he was fired, and here is the file: the cancellation solution, the application for a working relationship, the insurance checkout. It shows the papers. From the O.R.: Theme. This campaign you are campaigning for shows what your psychological condition is. You have easily taken away the word from our MPs, and by violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure; you have taken away the word from our MPs only because they pointed to one fact - Ljubomir Jovanovic-Staklin, who shot Peter Panic, is protected from prosecution because he is a close relative of Cedomir Jovanovic. They're brothers from uncles.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19209	Mr. Seselj, you've been given your word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19210	Did I take the time? I still have 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19211	What member? It doesn't matter, anyway, you have to stick to the subject, and that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19212	Look, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to point out that you have taken the floor against the Rules of Procedure's provisions, which is why you have taken away the word from the MPs of the SRS; it is solely because of this matter, which in the debate on Criminal Law spoke about a specific case of crime and the protection of criminals from non-potistic matters, because his relative is a high-ranking DS official, one of the key people of the Democratic Party. That's a fact. That's why 18 SRS deputies can't speak. I'd like to stay and speak alone, and you know I'm capable of it, but I have to run to the Federal Assembly any minute now, and there's even more serious debates waiting for me. Therefore,..... (President: Time. I call upon you to, realizing that you violated the Rules of Procedure yesterday, correct it nicely and allow all MPs of the SRS to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19213	Mr. Seselj, we talked about it yesterday, you weren't there, you were arguing all day; there was one MP from your MP group, and we were making a decision about it. So, not only me, but according to the discretionary authority held by the chairman, under Rule 97, who says, "In breach of the Rules of Procedure, the decisions of the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly are not considered to be based on the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure. "I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want me to put it to a vote? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: again according to the Rules of Procedure. You can't interpret my interpretation, you said I'm finding a breach, you can't determine a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can point, but you can't stop. Do you want me to put it to a vote? Yes or no Mr. Seselj? You're not pleading, so there's no need to put it to the vote. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION TO STOP THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECISION ON EDUCATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATIONAL EXTERNAL SURVEILLANCE OF AP KosovaS AND METOCHIJE You have received a proposal for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment tabled by MP Ljubisa Maravić and the government's opinion on the amendment. You received a report from the Legislative Board. I remind you that, according to Article 157(3) and Article 50 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the funeral time of the debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to submit immediately the lists of statements for the word, with a order of MPs. Consent to Article 157. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He's not present. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19214	I didn't mean to, but now I have to say 47 minutes. I have the right 20 minutes as head of the parliamentary group and I have 27 minutes because the entire parliamentary group, it's me today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19215	Mr. Seselj, just a little bit of a deal, so there's no misunderstanding, now you can have 20 minutes, then after all the presidents of the parliamentary groups for another 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19216	Well, that's a good break for me. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a rash and reckless decision on the agenda today. We are proposed here, in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt a decision on the suspension of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. We cannot make that decision without first considering the legal basis for making such a decision. What were the circumstances under which the Interim Executive Council’s education decision was made? In Kosovo and Metohija, it was impossible to hold democratic elections because the vast majority of Albanian national minorities boycotted democratic processes, the province's elections and local elections in Kosovo and Metohija were impossible. As a result, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided to form it temporarily larger. Meanwhile, there was an occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, but the occupation did not change the situation of things on the ground that conditioned the decision to form the Temporary Executive Council. Under the conditions of occupation, democratic elections are impossible. Did you DOS deceive a part of Kosovo Serbs to go to these elections, that is a fact, and they are now bitterly moaning for listening because Kosovo Serbs have thus helped Albanian separatists create a certain vision of the legitimacy and legality of the Quinslin government under the auspices of the government. Serbs acting as MPs are the worst Serbian traitors and we know them from before as traitors. They agreed to serve the occupier for money, for huge money. First, in the form of a monthly salary, in the form of various privileges, and many of them, like Rada Trajkovic, the house they received from the state, and Rada Trajkovic was rented to an occupyer for the huge amount of money they receive every month. Such people cannot represent the Serbian people in any congregation. Secondly, less than 50% of Kosovo's Serbs even went to the polls, despite all the counterfeits across Serbia, and these forgeries were more than ever. That is why the first reason that has led to the formation of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija still exists and it is a real fact. Of course, we can now talk about the inability to operate the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija, since Kosovo and Metohija are occupied territory. However, we know from international law and from practices of earlier occupations that no state was prepared to abolish its legal and legitimate authorities, if it is occupied by the entire state territory or occupied by a part of the territory. You know, when the Soviet Union sent troops of Redearms to Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, and when Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were attached to the Soviet Union, the then government that found itself continued to act, although it had no pedalterytorium to control. The Americans have until recently recognised her embassy in Washington. When Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia seceded from the Soviet Union, the embassies of these countries in Washington continued to function continuously. And we here have a legal and legitimate state body to terminate to court the occupier. I can understand your position that you do not agree with the composition of this Interim Executive Council, you have won the two-thirds majority of votes in the elections, you have the need and respect for this need, if it is truly sincere, and the need and will, to change the composition of the Interim Executive Council, so that it is temporarily more in the new composition proportionate to the ratio of forces in the National Assembly. Instead of earlier majority parties that people in this Interim Executive Council are from current majority parties, but that this institutional form is preserved because it is in accordance with our constitutional arrangement. If we don't preserve that institutional form, what can we get? We are completely handing over to another Kosovo and Metohija. This is still the only instrument of the legal Serbian government in Kosovo and Metohija, however not effective. It exists formally. In international public law, it is much more formal than an essential material basis. In international public law, no one asks you for a material basis. The occupation is always a temporary condition. The Minister of Justice, who doesn't even know when Dushan's code was passed, can wrap around here now, but there's a little book to read, not just talk like that. He says 1330, Dusan's code was passed and he's still a minister. He's not ashamed to be a minister of justice. You know, it's like saying that the Battle of Kosovo happened in 1370 and in 19 years it missed. Well, in 19 years, he missed out on the Dushan code and he's not ashamed. You know, I'd cut myself with my fingernails if I could crack that kind of nonsense somewhere in the public eye. I couldn't stand it. (Minister of Justice, Vladan Batic, throws out of place. It's nice like this, if the minister doesn't know anything, at least he's a funny man so he can entertain us, make this atmosphere shake a little bit. It's okay, Minister, I don't mind next time. Next, we have some more moments to consider here. In international law, it's always a matter of keeping form, and as long as the form is kept... Here, the minister asks me what's wrong with Krajisnik, and I have to explain it to him. Of the five people you arrested, ministers, on January 14th, of five people, only Marko Krajisnik was a member of the SRS, and the others were not. But you let them all go free on February 14th and they're all at large, unless you accidentally arrested them last night when you needed to use propaganda against the SRS. This Marko Krajisnik was fired from the SRS on September 14th. Here, here's the application when he started his work relationship, right here when he stopped working, here's the insurance checkout from September. That, in the absence of any arguments against the SRS, you don't choose funds, that says what position you're in now, not the SRS, because when the SRS criticises you, we have arguments. When we say that Cedomir Jovanovic is the cousin of Ljubomir Jovanovic - Glass, we have evidence. They're brothers from uncles, from Surchins. Natasa Jovanovic is not related and we have examined this. Because if we found out, God forbid, if she were related to Cedomir Jovanovic, she would immediately be expelled from the Serbian Radical Party. It would be a terrible genetic falinka and that's why you're flying out of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19217	Mr. Seselj, please take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19218	Mrs. Micic, you are my witness that I am solely in line with the agenda and only when from the DOS parliamentary group I am trying not to leave them without an answer, because it is time for people to be clear to the end. If you're not able to stop them from earning me, then don't intervene when I'm this kind, and explain to them in detail everything that their throw is about. To return to this topic that I answered for the word, which is much more important than who Cedin's cousin is and that Batic knows nothing. So that form I'm talking about in international law is the most significant. The form was so important in the event of the occupation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, although General Kalafatovic had a blankly certified Supreme Command license to capitulate before the German armed forces, his act of capitulation referred only to the military. The continuity of the Yugoslav state was preserved by the Yugoslav royal government in London and until King Peter himself gave up power, royal powers, until he formally abdicated by transferring royal powers to the royal deputies imposed on him by Churchill and the communists, he was the only expression of the sovereignty of our country in a formal sense. Tito, thanks to the king, managed to preserve the international and legal continuity of the Yugoslav state, otherwise his authority would be illegal, illegal, irregular. In this case, I call on you to safeguard the continuity of at least one branch of the province, the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, at least one organ. This doesn't cost anything. Pick up all DOS people in this organ, I don't mind. There doesn't have to be anyone from the opposition. We want so much to preserve the form of this organ that we will support every candidate from DOS, even if Cedomir Jovanovic and Vladan Batic suggested anyone. There is no question as to what kind of person it will be, just to keep and cherish that form. It can be reduced to a minimum of material costs, it can be at no cost, but it has to exist temporarily, on paper at least, so that at one point, when the external factor imposes definitive negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, we can also refer to this constitutional factor, an institutional factor that speaks of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of our constitutional order and the sovereign territory of our country. That's what's most important in this case. Next, we're going to have a lot of problems on this one. See what the occupiers do in Kosovo and Metohija. The occupiers are preparing to abolish the Serb municipality of Kosovo Mitrovica. The occupiers are preparing to hand over power to the Shiptars in the municipality of Strpce and have already done a lot on the plan. They haven't quite circled the process yet, but the process is already in progress. The occupier wants Serbs not to control in fact any pedals of Kosovo and Metohija. There is no question at all whether this temporary executive will be able to travel to the entire territory of Kosovo. They don't have to travel anywhere, but sometimes they can go to at least a few municipalities. They can go to Leposavic, they can go to Serbia's Kosovo Mitrovica, they can go to Zubin Potok, that's enough for someone to appear in that role from time to time. The role is proof of Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija, and if we lose that lever, then we have nothing and then the occupier will bring us before the final act. Then the occupier will simply say -- where your country's instruments are, where there's evidence that your country has any authority at all, where that institution is, you've abolished it yourself. By abolishing this institution, which represents the continuity of the government, the continuity of the executive government, this is the government of Kosovo and Metohija, the abolition of the institution completely unties the occupier's hands. The occupier may say he does not want to talk to the Serbian government. The occupier may say he won't talk to any other state factor, but the occupier must admit, while this temporary executive council exists, that there is double power, one government in immigration, and the other there is quinslinian. What's in emigration has a formal basis, and the Quinslin girl there has an essential material basis based on the force of the occupier's army and the occupier's police. Why am I trying to explain this to you so closely? To alarm if not you, the Serbian public, what disastrous consequences may have a possible decision on the abolition of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija. Dragisa Popovic: No one listens to you. Perhaps no one listens to me, unfortunately they listen to you, and now they repent bitterly. All those who voted for you now can't look you in the eye and that's the problem, because you deceived them. If they had known that this was waiting for them that you brought them, the dismissal of 700,000 workers, much greater social misery and indifference, the hunger in Serbia, you would never have come to power. But once the people have sinned and will never be deceived again. That experience was drawn by the people from that error in September 2000. Another factor here is very important: and your authority now acknowledges that the increased emigration of Serbs from these three southern Serb municipalities, Presheva, Bujanovac and Bear. Mass Serbs are selling houses and estates for more and more waken-up calls. The one dam that used to exist, that without state control can't be sold real estate, and especially in certain parts of Serbia, you have stepped down, abolished, and now everything is allowed. Now when Shiptar comes to buy the property, he knocks on the door and asks, "When you go, because there's no question of bargaining for how much money anymore." If we lose that control and you install their police there, then they'll cut off that vital communication on the Vranje-Skoplje line. So what do we do? Then the south of Serbia will be completely cut off from the world. It's very serious stuff. You were the one who played in front of the public that you suppressed the Shyptarian terrorist rebellion. You actually didn't choke that rebellion in those three municipalities. You only agreed with them... (Kedomir Jovanovic: When you sell weapons.) ) Cedomire Jovanovic, your people sell guns to them there, your people and these people who are under the protection of your regime: Jovica Stanisic, Milorad Lukovic-Legija, Franco Simatović-Franki and others, they sold weapons to the Shiptars. Milosevic should not have replaced Jovica Stanisic until I entered the Serbian government, how powerful Jovica was. Under his supervision, the Cypriots dug trenches in one third of Kosovo and Metohija under his supervision. And there your current Deputy Prime Minister Momcilo Perisic sat down and watched without reacting. These are historical facts, and so many Jovica Stanisic raped that Milosevic was terrified of him, that he couldn't do anything, so when I came to the Serbian government and said - let's go right now, clean up, replace, and then the thing got a little bit straightened out. Unfortunately, I came to the government late so that your men who were selling weapons to the Shiptar terrorists could be cleaned up in good time and now they're most silent about it. As far as weapons are concerned, there will be investigative authorities when your government falls the most questions to ask Philip Cempur, because he is the main arms smuggler, not just in the Balkans, throughout Europe. Philip Cepter's name was Milan Jankovic. You know, a man who needs you, which is like that Daniel Server, the one who funded you while you were on the student movement, the one who gave you money, so he bought you computers, bought you cell phones, so you got into a fight over those cell phones, so Cedomir Jovanovic couldn't go out on the street for days because of bruises, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19219	I warn you twice to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19220	Here, I'm coming back, but Cedomir Jovanovic is asking questions, so let's get this straight and I'm moving on, because I know exactly where I am. I'm such a democratic nature, tolerant, and I don't mind your questions. To pick up where I left off. What does it take to do this? First, the government needs to withdraw this document. You were not prepared to add to this document a report on the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Economic Executive Council. An organ is abolished without parliament knowing what that authority has done so far. Isn't that tragic? You just hang up and we're done, we're gone, we're moving on. You can't do that in the state. You know, here, the dynastys changed, the dynasties that hated each other, that killed each other, and when King Peter came, he didn't think of changing street names, which were known for the Obrenovics. And you, you just cancel your job, you don't think. You don't have any legal advisors, no expert. That's your problem. You have Vladimir Popovic-Baby running professional affairs. (The President - Time) Here, I'll be done right away. That this government withdraws, that experts consider this problem, then come up with a new proposal to recall the current members of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija and propose a selection of new ones. I don't mind. Just to preserve it, to preserve that one gentle plant so that it can bloom and that the fruit when it needs it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19221	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke. No, replica, straight to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19222	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Seselj, is simply not the place for that kind of conversation that you have been potential for the last three days. And if the public doesn't know about the motives of your uncontrolled anxiety, I'll introduce her to it. You're nervous, Mr. Seselj, because by yesterday you couldn't lift 300,000 marks from an Astra Banka account. You're nervous, Mr. Seselj, because the high officials of your party are bonds under the Extraprofit Tax Act, they've received tax returns, so if you honor them as Deputy Prime Minister, you don't expect the new government of democratic Serbia to agree to such a thing. So that's the second reason you're nervous. The third reason for your anxiety is that five of your bodyguards were arrested with 26kg of explosives, which were organised to sell it on an illegal market in Macedonia. Then, Mr. Seselj, you're nervous and because the Fourth Municipal Court ruled on the basis of which you must leave the Master's building in Zemun, which you usurped after 250 years. You know, Zemun's been passing various authorities, but no one thought he was prescribing to himself a master's building, which is a national good. Finally, Mr. Seselj, you are nervous that the trial against you is coming to an end because of the harsh abuse of the position and organised crime you committed against lawyer Nikola Barovic. Finally, Mr. Seselj, you're nervous about The Hague and everything you've done in the last 10 years. I didn't want to deny all the things that you and your party's representatives have said for the assembly speaker in the past few days, because it cannot be the level of the Serbian parliament. I've been waiting for at least one fact, and today you've made one fact known. That's right, I have an uncle, my father has a brother, but it's an indisputable fact that I am the only male heir and the family of Jovanovic and the Mrsic family, I have no brother from my uncle, and I have never seen in my life the person you mentioned. I've never seen him in my life. But I can finally tell you that officially, as president of the DOS parliamentary group, I have also sent a request to the Ministry of the Interior and the district attorney's office to break up once and for all in Serbia with those who abuse their position and degrade this society. I'm ready to answer for everything I've done at all times. And are you ready to answer for everything you've done to this country - it won't depend on your will, because if you were wondering, you'd be in those places where you were on October 5th. As citizens ask themselves today, they ask those institutions you've been destroying for the past 10 years, since there's no more banana bark, your anxiety is so present that you can't control yourself anymore. So, Mr. Seselj, I invite you to present all your accusations to the state authorities in those places where you can discuss it. I am pleased to have both the moral and political breakdown of the person and the political concept that you have promoted. If you had spent as much energy as you spent in the last three days, in dealing with your political opponents, pointless accounts, invested in defending Serbian interests, you would not have reduced the borders of Serbia and spread the borders of your apartments, but at least someone would have a moment of happiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19223	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There is no basis for replication, Mr. Kovacevic. I didn't hear. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, and then by Djura Lazic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19224	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party feels that today is a very important item of the agenda for the Serbs from Cosmeta, and that perhaps -- who did what we should leave behind for Monday or Tuesday. Today, let's see how this will help the Serb people of Cosmet, the one who lives in Cosmet and those who have fled to Serbia. The Serbian Unity Party is against the suspension of the Interim Executive Council, as it will have no one to represent the interests of the Serb people. I'm not going to say that the temporary execution of much has done for the people of Serbia in Cosmet, but it is known that lately, not to go back to some history, no one is taking care of the Serb people of Cosmeta. Since the December elections, none of the representatives of the federal and republican governments, I mean officials, have gone to Kosovo and Metohija to see how the Serb people live there. If they didn't leave, then it was supposed to do temporary execution. Who will tell those who say that Serbs have done ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija, that they have committed genocide, that it is not so if it does not temporarily increase. It is known that Serbs have experienced genocide in Kosovo and Metohija, that all Albanians have returned to Kosovo and Metohija, that 250,000 Albanians have come from Albania to Cosmet, those Albanians who have never lived in Cosmet, and that only 150 Serbs have returned to Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbs have experienced genocide, ladies and gentlemen. Also someone should raise his voice in Cosmet because only Serbs are tried in The Hague tribunal, and it is known that the list does not include Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj, Rugova, Suroi, and all those who killed Serbs and the Serb people in Cosmet. It's supposed to do temporary execution. If the problem in individuals who do this is greater, let's replace individuals, but it's not good to shut it down and shut it down. It is to show in The Hague that Serbs have committed genocide and that it is collective responsibility. Someone says it's an individual responsibility. It is not an individual responsibility if only Serbs have been found in The Hague so far, namely Milan Martic, Krajisnik, Karadzic, Mladic, Milan Milutinovic, Biljana Plavsic and Slobodan Milosevic. These are Serbs elected in the last ten years for the president of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Serbia and Yugoslavia. Well, what is it? It's collective responsibility. And we Serbs have not caused a single war on the premises of the old Yugoslavia, nor on Cosmet. We know how the war started in Kosovo and Metohija and who first started killing police officers, who attacked police stations and how many officers lost their lives in Kosovo and Metohija. It's supposed to do temporary execution. The interim executive council should raise its voice against those who release the Cypriots from Serbian prisons. Up until now 1,800 Shipara has been released from Serbian prisons without a single Serb coming out of Albanian prisons. This should work, to raise the voice, temporarily more executively, and you may vote that the interim executive council does not exist in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, it is against a decision made by the SRJ president to release Albin Kurti from prison without the exchange of any Serb. Albin Kurti is the leader of student demonstrations. We resent the president of the SRJ for sharing the Serbian people. He said Serbs should go to the elections, his deputies said Serbs should not go to the elections. All right, we went to the election and let's see what that Return Coalition has done, how many Serbs have gone back to Cosmett and whether or not the Return Coalition is working on it. I'm not saying it doesn't work, but there's no results. Serbs from Cosmeta, who live in Serbia, have nothing to eat anymore, are not receiving the help they received for persons 18 to 65 years old, the aid has been abolished, no job, no job left. What about 1,300 missing Serbs from Cosmet, ladies and gentlemen? 1,300 Serbs are missing and no one mentions where they are. However, we are getting a list of 180 killed Serbs, and we have therefore released 1,800 Shipara from Serbian prisons. Well, let's see if that's good for the Serbian people, who we're helping and whether that other side, which should take care of Serbs in Cosmet, UNMIK and KFOR, really takes care of. It is known that since UNMIK and KFOR came, it is much harder for Serbs than before 2000, even before 1997, that Serbs do not have any security; if one of the Albanians just says something about a Serb, the Serb goes to jail immediately. Every week, on average, there are two or three murders in Kosovo and Metohija, and the victims are Serbs. There's no one to raise your voice, ladies and gentlemen. It is known that the Co-ordination Body for Cosmet is doing nothing but fighting how much money will be allocated to Cosmet, that is, south of Serbia. In southern Serbia, houses, schools and infrastructure are not built in the part where Serbs live, but in the part where Albanians live. We know that we also worked in Kosovo and Metohija and that we lost everything we had down there. The SS believes that this body should remain, that some new people, who have not been spent, some people whom the Serb people of Cosmeta will believe, and those people who did not only perform in the election campaign and who spoke to our brothers -- if you vote us, as the former government, we will take care of you. It has been shown that Serbs had no benefit, or only harm, and no one is taking care of them. I repeat it once again and call on all Serbs, when this point is on the agenda, not to argue and to ask SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica to do so, from Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic; these two politicians have never been more popular in Europe, in all institutions, than they were in 2000 and 2001, and never have Serbia and Yugoslavia received any less assistance, except for the requirement to deliver Serbs to The Hague tribunal. Some say -- let's now introduce a co-operation law with The Hague tribunal, and the law will say that Serbs are being delivered to The Hague tribunal. What is the difference between the delivery of Serbs, whether by law or without law? The SSJ is to pass the law, but the law says that Serbs are tried here in Serbia, if these Serbs committed war crimes, that Hague investigators come to Yugoslavia and that we demand, parallelly, that other war participants be tried, such as Albanians, i.e. Cypriots, Muslims and Croats. Ladies and gentlemen, we and this temporary executive council must once stop the invention of mass graves in Serbia. Over 20 mass graves were invented and I don't know how many thousands of corpses were reportedly found here. We only saw one physically, and the question is whose corpses are they. These pathologists of ours, they are good experts and they know in advance that they are the corpses of Albanians, Muslims and Croats. What about the Serb corpses in Cosmet, how many mass graves are there on Cosmet? It is known that the exhumation takes place within seven to 20 years and that one cannot know in advance whether it is a corpse of Albanians, Muslims, Croats or Serbs. Let us stand in the way of people who do so at a time when Serbs are tried in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19225	The word is by MP Djura Lazic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19226	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a proposal for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to abolish the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija. Some say this is a political issue, and I think it's both a political and an essential issue. Each government, as well as parliament, depends on the majority that makes it, has the right to assess a certain situation and make decisions on the formation or abolition of certain authorities. The government has estimated that a decision should be made to abolish PIV for some of its known reasons, and it is my obligation to present several facts, arguments, which are why the previous government and previous Serbian parliament have made a decision on the formation of the PIV. I have both the right and the obligation, as a man from that space, to present in a few sentences a gene of all these turmoils, events in Kosovo and Metohija. The formation of Kosovo and Metohija PIV was necessary and inevitable. That is why the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at its session of the 2nd extraordinary session in 1998, held on 28 September, made a decision on the education of the Interim Executive Council of the AP Kosovo, and Metohija. The National Assembly's decision to form the PIV was made at the time of the strongest international relations in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, due to the years-long and decades-long functioning of Albanian separatists, with the goal of separating the sovereign part of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from the state framework and forming as a separate state, and then joining the Republic of Albania. Namely, self-insulation of Albanians compared to Serbs and Montenegrins and other non-Albanian communities with whom they lived, with closure in a circle of national, especially language and cultural exclusion, which has been escalated by separatist leaders for decades by the end of the 1960s and early 1980s with open demands for the province to obtain the status of the Republic. This, in later events, was supposed to be only the first stage of a programme of Albanian nationalists, behind which was an obvious secessionist goal -- the separation from the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the accession of the Republic of Albania, not only the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, but also of all other areas inhabited by Albanians, meaning the creation of so-called. "Greater Albania". I would say a few sentences by wanting to create a gene of all the problems the situation in Kosovo and Metohija has led to heat. Everything was driven by the great drive of the Shyptarists to conquer all segments of that space, and to win space. For decades, huge pressures have been exerted on members of the Serb and Montenegrin people, as well as on Muslims, Roma and other non-Albanian communities. At the same time, members of the Cypriot national community accused Serbia of persecuting them, denying their rights, but, on the other hand, boycotted Serbia, all its laws and in general the state of Serbia, while at the same time using all the rights, starting from schooling in the native language, using health services, to the right to work. Then, they used very gladly pensions and social protection, and they worked in the economy, in the judicial authorities and in the MUP. Until they got a dictatorship from a foreign mentor to leave these institutions mass. Out of revolt towards Serbia, and in order to show themselves in the light of the endangered nation, they began to leave their jobs massily. It is not true that all the Cypriots were against Serbia and that they were all leaving jobs. There are many Shiparas in Kosovo and Metohija who have been, and I say today there are a number of Shiparas who are for the state of Serbia, many of them remain to do business, in the post office, in the railways, in the EPS, in all businesses, in municipal authorities, in the judicial authorities, in the MUP, and not to list other institutions, such as the republican authorities. Only separatists and leaders of the separatist movement were in the interest of showing the world that they were threatened and that their rights were denied by the Republic of Serbia through their laws. If that were not true, it also confirms the fact, let's say, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 1990, that when they went to the local elections, they would have won an absolute majority in 24 of the 29 municipalities in the province of Kosovo and Metohija. They didn't want to. If they had accepted participation in the province's elections, they would have had an absolute majority of MPs in the Regional Assembly. That's what the Constitution has given them since 1990. They did not want to use it because they were driven by a desire to represent themselves as a endangered nation in order to provoke interventions of foreign elements, namely Americans and other Western European countries. All in order to create the Republic of Kosovo and secession from the Republic of Serbia. So there's the point. Failure in attempts to achieve a goal, contrary to all international documents, human rights and the position and rights of national minorities, motivated the leaders of the Separatist movement to take late arms. Organized violence, rarely seen in the frameworks of the news, aided from abroad, flooded cities and villages in the province. The consequences of daily terrorist attacks, which began during 1989 and escalated in its most difficult form during 1997 and 1998 and in early 1999, were hundreds of killed citizens, and most often Albanians, defined for living together with other peoples, to dozens of killed police officers and soldiers and destroying state and private property largely. Such a situation has defined the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a decision on the formation of PIV, with the intention of contributing the same to the repression of political and other conflicts and their transfer to democratic and tolerance frameworks, as well as to contribute to the strengthening of civil authorities in the province, which could not be fully established because the majority of Albanians, by order of separatist leaders and also fear of retribution, had boycotted the elections. It is the decision of the National Assembly of Serbia that the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija perform this function temporarily, until elections are held in the AP for the Assembly, the Executive Greater and local authorities of the administration, and because of the problems that were present and the need to enable normal life and functioning of vital services in Kosovo and Metohija, necessary for the life of the population, and until the final political solution and the creation of conditions for the start of work on the election of elected authorities in the entire territory of the province. To that end, as part of the PIV, which later participated in many talks and in co-operation with the OSCE verification mission, members of national communities, all who lived in Kosovo and Metohija, entered without exception. So PIV consisted of representatives of Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Turks, Roma, Gorans, Egyptians and Muslims. Members of the PIV during the fierce operation of the Cypriot terrorists in the western part of Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the area of Metohija, have done their utmost in the situation of tightened relations... (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... prevent the consequences of pressure on their fellow citizens and go to the field self-worked, aided, supplied the people with basic life supplies and all that was meant to enable these people to survive in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. Because of the engagement, a PIV member, Albanian Jafer Djukanovic, from Peći, then Cerim Ismaili from the village of Godanca in the municipality of Šimlje, because these people have done everything possible to help members of the Cypriot national community, to provide them with all they need, to enable them to live a normal life and survive in Kosovo and Metohija. That didn't suit the Shiptar terrorists and extremists, and that's why they killed these two members of the Cypriot national community and members of the PIV,
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19227	People's MP, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19228	I wouldn't, I'm sorry, I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19229	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19230	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed observers, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia made a decision on 28 September 1998 on the education of the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija. On the same day, a decision was made to elect Mr Zoran Angelkovic as PIV president, and on 15 October 1998, the Executive Greater AP of Kosovo and Metohija made a decision on the organisation and way of working of the Kosovo AP and Metohija PIV. Let me mention the competences of this decision provided for on behalf of the Interim Council. Article 2 - implements laws and other regulations and general acts of the Republic of Serbia, whose enforcement is entrusted to the Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija; adopts regulations for their enforcement when it is authorised; whether it does so today; whether it is - not; executes decisions and general acts and makes acts for their enforcement in accordance with the law; whether it does so today; whether PIV does so today; answer is - no; adopts acts in its jurisdiction; whether it makes them today - no; proposes a development programme, budget and final account of the province for their implementation; whether it does so today - does not; proposes decisions and general acts - does not propose; establishes principles for the internal organisation of the regional authorities and services - does not act; sets up and resolves the elders in the circuit bodies, administrations and services - does not direct and coordinate the work of the regional authorities and services - does not direct an opinion and direction. So, ladies and gentlemen, PIV no longer works, nothing, PIV only exists on paper and exists in the heads of those who would still return the wheel of history. But temporarily, the administrative council of Kosovo and Metohija, although it does not exist, spends huge money. Here, I'll tell you something -- between July 29th 1999 and January 31st, 2000, so, just for about six months, it was spent, based on a record at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, via an accreditation opened in NBJ's exposure to Bruce, 26.485,000 dinars. It's only then, and then it's multiplied. Today your expenses are much higher, but it's very interesting where that money went. The purchase of funds, inventory, consumables and food products for the eating of persons employed in the PIV headquarters is approved, in a restaurant located in the PIV building. That's the 26,519,000 dinars. From that, illustration works, 3,804.800 dinars to the Centre for Peace and Tolerance, and do you know who signed the Statute of the Centre for Peace and Tolerance - Zoran Angelković. Then, 2,357 dinars of Holding company "S group". And do you know who founded the Holding Company "S Group" - was founded by the SPS Executive Board, based in Belgrade, Bulevar Lenina No. 6. So it's about the fact that it's completely unwise to waste huge resources. The effects don't have any. Kosovo's PIV and Metohija are doing nothing, just spending a lot of money. It is not recognised by anyone, it has no influence whatsoever, it cannot regain sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. And something else, gentlemen, has been mentioned repeatedly that if Serbia is a temple, then Kosovo is an altar. No temple without altar, no Serbia without Kosovo. People who were in power earlier often swore in Kosovo and Metohija, mostly on the eve of the elections. Then Kosovo became a cradle, root, bottom of eye vision, then everyone remembered Kosovo and Metohija for nothing; and during that time in Kosovo and Metohija there were new minarets; all satellite antennas were facing Tirana and Istanbul; there were no inscriptions, bilinguals, inscriptions on Cyrillic; if you happened to be in Kosovo and Metohija you would never recognise that you were on sacred Serbian land. Instead of preventing arms, which is the responsibility of the government, to prevent all the logistic support of Albanian separatists and terrorists, to prevent a huge flow of financial resources, the uninterrupted crossing across the border (the border is not guarded, it has crossed as anyone wanted and when wanted), it was silenced. That, seemingly, was the silence, absence and abstinence of the political life of Kosovo Albanians, that corresponded to the party in power. She thought it would last forever, and it got to all of us. So the regime was responsible for it. Instead of having the right institutions of government in Kosovo and Metohija, we got some Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija, we got some kind of government of Kosovo and Metohija, with Bukoshi; two of the largest separatists, Yusuf Zeinulahi and Remzi Kolgeti, you appointed the directors of the two largest banks in Kosovo and Metohija. And so it slowly came to the conclusion that separatism and terrorism are emerging and that Serbia and the SRJ authorities in Kosovo and Metohija are slowly disappearing. For five years, I've been an MP in this congregation. I personally asked seven times to put the debate on the agenda of this parliament on Kosovo and Metohija. We have come to a tragic situation -- parliaments of almost all European countries debated Kosovo and Metohija, the European Parliament also discussed, but never discussed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And it's a disgrace, and it's a shame, and it's treason. Those who allow it, they are traitors. Then the negotiations started, and there was a G-8 offer, so there was a Contact Group offer, and there were various other offers, so there was a proposal for an agreement on Rambuje, so it was the Paris Agreement. There they went and chuckled, led with Aborigines and Azerbaijani to defend the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. We have learned that there are Egyptians in Serbia and that they are so important that they will decide on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. You were sobbing in Rambouje, the cameras recorded it, then there was a shameful capitulation, and then the Kuman agreement came. This is not the fault of the local government, it is the responsibility of those who then exercised power in Serbia and the SRJ. One of them just spoke here. One who swore that if a foreign boot set foot on Kosovo, it would never be in power again. He came out temporarily and after a month of "shut his tail" and returned to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because everything has its price. It mentions Vojislav Seselj (of course escaped) daily, I don't know when Dušan's code was passed, that code which I have studied in detail; it was brought, ladies and gentlemen, on May 21st, 1349, to the All-Serb Assembly in Kosovo; and that day in the future, since it was the largest law in the Balkans at that time, that day will, if God so, be the day of Serbia's justice. But I don't understand what Vojislav Seselj has to do with Serbian national history and the bright characters of that Serbian national history; he could talk about Ban Tomislav, Ban Jelačić; he could talk about his fascist friends - Lepen, Shenhuber, who had an iron cross, obtained from Hitler, for genocide against the citizens of Corsica; he could possibly talk about Žirinovski or his new friend Saddam Hussein; but what does he have to do with Serbian national history? He's a disgrace and a shame. After all, it does not belong to this world and to that history. He's got his other heroes. "Thanks to Tito's brilliant view of the real social historical situation, during which the Yugoslav working class, and the Yugoslav peoples and peoples in general, and its revolutionary visionary aspirations, in which the entire era of revolutionary revolution, the KPJ, respectively, successfully developed and implemented the revolutionary form of the creative application of the Marxist concept of armed people, which best corresponded to the specific conditions and specificities of the indigenous Yugoslav revolution and self-government socialist society, the main assets of the magnificent Yugoslav revolutionary transformation." It was published in the journal "Ideje" and it is the doctoral dissertation of Vojislav Seselj - General Defense in the Socialist Self-Government Society, a specific form of Marxist application of the theory of armed people. Because of the application of such a theory, we no longer have sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. Because of the application of such a theory, we have lost sovereignty which, if God so, the DOS government will return to the Serbian sanctity, Kosovo and Metohija again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19231	The word has the People's MP Branislav Ivkovic, the right to reply, and the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic. Branislav Ivkovic, based on the mention of the SPS. National MP Alexander Vukic mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister Batic, on the agenda is item 7. Proposal for a decision to suspend the validity of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. The Honorable Madam Chairman, as far as everyone in the hall could see, as well as the few who were monitoring the transmission, because they were mostly following the transfer from The Hague, they could understand and understand that 90% of Mr Batic's exposure had nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. Before us, before the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a proposal for a decision to abolish the validity of the Interim Executive Council's Education Decision, and we need to make that decision, to vote for or against it. By voting for or against, we must consider that, if we accept the explanation given by the motion, that the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly is established and that there is no need for a temporary executive, then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the leading DOS leaders, will be included in the verification of elections in Kosovo and Metohija, carried out on 17 November. It's this dangerous trap we can get into, which is far more important than anything the predecessor said about this pay phone. Secondly, it should be pointed out that the temporary execution was higher and that, at difficult times, when the OSCE started mixing in Kosovo and Metohija, it played a key role in the state, which is protecting Serbian citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That such a temporary executive council was in the full multiethnic system and that even two Albanians, members, Jafer Djuka and Ismails, were killed, just killed because they worked at the Interim Executive Council. As far as financial data is concerned, let the state authorities do so. But, you know, the state authorities will certainly check that Nebojsa Covic spends 500 million dinars that you gave him so coldly, along with all the money that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia gives for the operation of the Co-ordination Centre, which only works and if it works in the territory where Serbs are, and does not do its job, as it has temporarily worked on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and where Albanians and others are. One more thing, my dear gentlemen, the SPS parliamentary group had asked to hold a debate on whether or not to go to elections on November 17th in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and you refused to do so in a cold majority. So much for how much you cared about the Kosovo and Metohija debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19233	According to Article 84(2) and to the observations made, the subject of this agenda, according to previous warnings, especially MPs from opposition MPs' groups, is such that you must let the speaker give an explanation he considers appropriate for the defence or attack on the argument being made. So, the MP had the right to so much as require that we strictly stick to the subject, to abolish the PAVK Decision, but then we would have to talk about only eight provisions that are in this decision and against that would probably be all MPs. If that's what you want, I can strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, but I think we'd all be a lot more dissatisfied than this. Excuse me, MP, the word has been made by MP Alexander Vukic, a replica based on the mention of the name in the presentation of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting that Mrs. Comic has not interrupted previous speakers who have not spoken of anything, especially about what is on the agenda. Would you like to silence these of yours? And you didn't... (President: all of you are mine, as I said... I'm not yours, I'm sorry, please, you'll give me the right to another replica, I'm not yours. (President: And I ask all the messengers to pay attention to the speaker. We've been listening here since this morning, listening to one who hasn't graduated from college, and he's out here talking like a judge. He's going to threaten SRS MPs, he's going to tell who's going to go to jail, he's going to talk about what kind of judicial judgments they're going to be. Well, he doesn't know what he's going to do, so he says -- well, there's going to be a verdict in Barovic's case against Seselj, that's going to be the verdict on another issue, that's the third question. What is he? Is he the prosecutor, the judge, what is it? For all of this, he has to finish college first, and that's a prerequisite. Whether he's in the mob or not, that'll fit, but this has to be set up differently in this assembly. Not those who are accused of being appointed as judges and of making judgments before anyone else in charge of it has made a decision. What do you do for a living, Mr. Batic? You do that, and your only accusations are to tell your political opponents, when we accuse them of mobry, and for everything, you are fools, extra-awake, crazy, Croats or I don't know what. Since you are not ashamed of Nikola, Vladimir, Michael, and Alexander, these are four sons of Vojislav Seselj. Since you are not ashamed of the late father, Nikola and mother of Danica, that you are not ashamed of Batić Jure, Batić Ahmet and all other Batićs who are so named, and I will not tell you that you are Muslim, nor that you are Croat. I won't tell you that. So you're saying that we are -- we're not. You're talking about who fought in Kosovo and Metohija. SRS deputy official Dragan Milunovic -- Jule died defending Kosovo and Metohija, and that as deputy battalion commander, Mr Baticu. (Milisav Petkovic, from the place: The Prince of Mihajl! Not in the Prince of Michael, but not far from the Podway, you unfortunate one. Not far from the Poduje, an accident of God. Shame on you. You will talk about who is how and what he betrayed. The SRS did not accept Plan Ahtisaari - Chernomidin, the only one in Serbia. Everyone was up to the plan, and we were against it, and we told the National Assembly what would happen, how and how it would happen with the people of Serbia, how and how everything in Serbia would happen. And you have no further arguments, but -- you have returned to power; well, better in that power, a hundred times, so I don't know what you had against it, but in power with those like you, such as your coalition partners, who will today give both Kosovo and Metohija, and Vojvodina and everything else. But let me tell you one thing: you can threaten the MPs of the SRS and the arrests, the arrest announcements, The Hague, which is the greatest shame for Serbia, that you Serbians are threatening the UN tribunal, it's funny, it's sad, unfortunate one... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... It's sad, not funny to threaten you with The Hague, you coward, you poor thing; you threaten The Hague; you Serbs will drive everyone away in The Hague; but I tell you, the Serbian people will judge you for all that you do to him. Be assured you won't be able to avoid that punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19235	All I have left is to remind you, in accordance with Article 84(2), of the obligations that all MPs have in addressing the National Assembly. So what we're asking others to do, we have to do it ourselves. That also applies to the handover of the MPs of the people. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, on the basis of the party's mention in the statement of the minister. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that Mrs. Comic is in the place where the knife and the cake are held, or at least she is present, how could you not feel the hate speech, Mrs. Comic, from the presentation of the current minister of justice and local self-government. How can you not remind him, Mrs. Comic, when he was playing with the raise of minarets in Kosovo and Metohija. Who bothers in Serbia to raise religious objects of any recognised religion in the world? How come it didn't bother you, Mrs Comic, that Minister Vladan Batic spoke with hatred about minority members living in Kosovo and Metohija and members of Serbian people who are not in his party or not in DOS? How come it didn't bother you, didn't it burn your ears, Mrs. Comic? This is where the master's work of Professor Vojislav Seselj from 1973 was read, when the minister caught horses by Obrenovac and sold to Italians. The work of a dissident is read, and in order for a man to be a dissident, he must first be a communist. What's strange is when a 19-year-old kid, because he's an extra student, gets into the Communist Party and he gets out at 25, because he sees the party leading the country to ruin. What bothers us to put the wheel of history back and make Kosovo and Metohija ours again? He asks the minister why we returned to the government after the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin and Resolution 1244. To direct the money of the people of Serbia to build bridges, Mr. Minister, and to raise the factories that you are now closing. You have two bridges left here for two years and if you had stone by stone, you would have made these two bridges in Novi Sad. Only two bridges left for DOS to build in Serbia in two years, you failed. You're saying that the high costs of the Interim Executive Council for Kosovo and Metohija are some reports from two years ago. What are the costs of Nebojja Covic and his Coordination Centre? The US president is Minister for Afghanistan, England holds the Ministry of Ireland for two centuries, and you are terminating the ministry for a year and a half or a temporary executive council, as you call it, for Kosovo and Metohija. The explanation is cynical and terrible: given that elections have been held in Kosovo and Metohija and that Kosovo and Metohija organs are expected to be formed, there is no need for Serbia to take care of Kosovo and Metohija anymore. It's the easiest thing to hate, Mr. Minister. You've got a little bit of leverage in your hands, so you've decided to deal with everyone who doesn't think like you, but those levers are turning around, Mr. Minister. Your head hair wasn't missing from your authority, it was because of nature while you were in opposition, and now you're threatening to put people in jail and in prison. This is where you live whenever a Serb is mentioned who is being tried in The Hague. Who do you belong to, what nation, what nation? What's your national interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19237	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic, as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have explained that there are no more practical reasons for the existence of the Interim Administrative Council of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is temporarily administratively larger in fact. It only exists on paper and wastes money without reason. Of course, there was no hate speech, nor did I in any way offend members of any national minority. I was only talking about the chronology of events in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have never said a word of hate for this speaker. I'm just mentioning what some people have done in the past and I don't know why some people are ashamed of their past. There's no reason to be ashamed of the past. They traded camps, of course, for a little money or for a little power, anyway. This patriotism has paid off well, because here is solution number 360-1978/98, Tomislav Nikolic, vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is given a four-bedroom apartment of 186 m2 with garage space of 12.47 m2 etc. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism in some people has its price, and others simply have no price. Some people also participated in strong sessions of negotiations with Rugova and other Albanian representatives in Kosovo and Metohija. What an epilogue he was, we see. As for The Hague and NATO intervention, Vladan Batic has filed a criminal report against Javier Solana to The Hague, not one of you large patriots. I've written countless letters, and be assured that the charges against Thaci, Haradinaj and Ceku will be filed very quickly. So, don't put on a cantar patriotism. If we put it on the cantar, you know, it'll go one way, and you know which side it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19239	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I give my word to the MP, Momcilo Trajkovic, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19240	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable observers, I would like to say a few words on the subject of the suspension of the Interim Executive Council. It is unfortunate that this very important item of the agenda is transformed, not to use a bad word, into something that tells us how much we care about Kosovo and Metohija. This point is very important for the following reason, because the key problem of the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs today is the institutions of the system, because the institutions of the systems provided for, both by the international community and by our state, but also by the new Kosovo institutions, do not perform in the best way, and some do not perform at all the functions for which they are established, and above all I think of the institutions of the international community that are very important, because they are defined by Resolution 1244. They are a transitional phase or bridge over which to move to new relations, so that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is calmed down and that Kosovo and Metohija, based on Resolution 1244, is reintegration into Serbia and Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, the international community institutions are the first bridge and Kosovo-Methohic Serbs do not believe, have no confidence, cannot step across the bridge and therefore turn to their state institutions. Unfortunately, we have defined ourselves as a state to agree to Kosovo institutions, believing that they will solve the problems of all people living there, with the help of the international community. We have agreed to the elections and these institutions are not working today, because those who need to establish them cannot agree. Thirdly, our institutions that need to help the Serbian people, despite their best wishes to do so, fail for more reasons, and above all because, under Resolution 1244, they do not have the authority to function there. That is why the issue of the Interim Executive Council is very important. The co-ordination centre was formed on behalf of the Federal and Republic Government, and when it was said to be the following -- that the Coordination Centre will coordinate with the Federal Committee for Kosovo and Metohija, which then existed, with the Interim Executive Council, which you are proposing today to abolish, to co-ordinate with the Committee for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia and to coordinate with the Co-ordination Body for the South of Serbia. Unfortunately, instead of these pillars being strengthened and the Coordination Body coordinating these organs, there was a different concept. It is for all these institutions to be abolished and that the Coordination Centre manages the affairs of Kosovo and Metohija by some new organisation. Now, we have come into a position that no institution has seriously stopped or worked, on the other hand the people feel that all ties between Kosovo and Metohija are slowly breaking down, or between Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and our institutions. And in the elections there was a basic message -- let's go to the elections to restore the institutions of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia. I was one of the opponents of the Interim Executive Council, and I spoke of it, with respect for individuals and respect for Mr Angelkovic, who at one point played a very important role, was some hope for the people and helped as much as he could, but it could not perform its function properly, because no one there recognized him. But it's recognised at the establishment of the Coordination Centre. The coordination centre is composed of four institutions, Mr. Hekerup has accepted such a way of organising the Coordination Centre and it is an opportunity for us to reconsider our decision and try to keep those pillars. You see, we have other institutions that we've predicted, and we haven't established. So I ask a serious question, no matter what I belong to DOS, my position is known to be that the most responsible for the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is the former regime, but, as far as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, this today's government cannot get a transitional assessment at all. To check it out, please come to Kosovo and Metohija. I'm willing to leave everything, even a seat of MPs, but I have to say something from this pay phone, to go back down there, because I live with that people. That people were also left by this government. An example of that is that at the funerals of Serbs killed by terrorists, no one comes. This is the best example that we are slowly and surely in the process of forgetting our obligations to this people, and the essence of our policy is not to resolve Kosovo in one day and we cannot resolve it today. But to strike a balance of two interests, it is the interest of the state and the interest of that people there, so that that people can withstand future processes and all the compromises that both this government and some other government must do. Because we can't go back to the way we were. I want to remind myself of this, too, why does not the Kosovo and Metohija committee form in the Serbian Parliament? For several months now, the Rules of Procedure have envisioned a committee for Kosovo and Metohija. Why should we debate this individually when we could on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, define policy there and come here without a fight and conflict, because we can and should not argue about Kosovo. No one raises that question. Why, gentlemen, even though we're in August of the month, Mr. Marko Jaksic and I submitted to the Assembly a bill on the Kosovo and Metohija fund and tried to work together with the Assembly, committees and other parliamentary clubs to resolve the issue of the socio-economic position of this people, because we have an unsettled situation - that proposal has not arrived here today. So does anyone know how many of our people in Osoyan have returned? Has anyone been informed about this? Why we don't have one established policy that we all have to understand. I disagree with those of the opposition who think it's time for the Kosovo and Metohija issue to be resolved. We have a lot of compromises and bitter pills to drink. But behind that, there must be results. I understand, too, Mr Simu Spasic, who is angry because there are no results on the plan of the kidnapped and returned but our people are terrified, abandoned, abandoned. Three months have passed since the Kosovo elections were held, and apart from Mr. Covic, who was three times, no one ever showed up there again. Why? Gentlemen, I suggest that our assembly form a delegation. I'm willing to go along with that delegation and visit the children and the people who are threatened there, to know that the moves that we're making are unsuspecting, but that we're feeling certain that we're preparing for this people. I have a lot to say, I'm simply going with the topic on the subject, but now I suggest that the Serbian Parliament finally put Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda, that we as responsible people discuss this issue. Let's see what's going on out there, see what the problems are, what we need to help the government, what the government is asking of the Parliament. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19241	Mr. Trajkovic, thank you, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19242	Well, since I can't talk, there's no more time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19243	The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic. There's no basis for replication. (He speaks to the Messenger Wolf. ) No basis for replication, check in notes. I can't argue with you, there's no basis for replication. The People's MP Marko Jaksic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliament group, I will speak, since we haven't used that time. This issue of Kosovo and Metohija has always been relevant, and for all of us it is important and important. Many spears have broken over all of this, but we here, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, have no strategy, have no goal, have no tactics, and seem to me we don't know what we want there. It's my impression that slowly, as time goes, no matter how rough it might work, we wander like geese in the fog. We don't have a concept down there. We have on one side a view, a recipe in southern Serbia, a recipe in the Presevo Valley, to move it down to Kosovo and Metohija, and we have another attitude that is diametrically opposite, to be one country and two systems. You have to admit that these two are quite the opposite and conflicting attitudes within the same government. Why am I saying this? If we take away the state structures from the Serbs, it's like taking a child away from a breast. Serbs bind to their schools, Serbs bind to what they have down there, bind to their homes, bind to those remains of state structures that Kosovo and Metohija have in place. Therefore, all calls for Serbs living downstairs to take various applications and stop respecting Serbia's health education seem to lead in some way to participate in the formation of a new, other, foreign state. Whether it will be a broad regional self-government or something else, because UNMIK structures do not exist, there are only Albanian structures. We do not have the right on behalf of all the sites of that structure, to extradite what is left of the Serbian state and give to UNMIK, i.e. We'll give it to the Albanians. For these reasons, it seems to me that we are struggling not to move one such recipe, the recipe of southern Serbia, to Kosovo. We can talk about the multiethnic police in Presevo, but it's the headquarters of the police in Belgrade. If we participate in the formation of Kosovo police, its headquarters is in Pristina. Today, we have, unfortunately, a phenomenon that some Serbs, say, from Kosovo's Pomorive, are participating in the Kosovo Protection Corps. We come to the point that our Serbs go two uniforms, participate in the construction of an Albanian army in Kosovo and Metohija. We have Serbs in two armies, in fact. Today we have a phenomenon, for example, representatives of the Kosovo police, Serbs working in those uniforms, Serbs living as foreign soldiers, not to say traitors. That's why it happened in Leposavic, for example, that the people would rise up against that so-called. Kosovo police, i.e. against Serbs in other people's uniforms, so in the end, KFOR comes and starts protecting those Serbs in other people's uniforms and kills two Serbs, quite innocent, in Leposavic. I don't need to talk about how Serbs experience these members of the Kosovo police, let's say, when they come to treatment and Serbs are. Let's just say they don't want sisters to give them therapy. We have a lot of problems, because they think they don't work for our cause. What does UNMIK want in Kosovo? First of all, UNMIK in Kosovo wants to give Albanians to the right state. We had opportunities to see that they were watching peacefully while the Serbian houses were burned across the entire area of Kosovo and Metohija. We had opportunities to watch them fall into the Clinical Center, first of all, members of KFOR and UNMIK, who were heading the way to enter the UCK into those institutions. We in Mitrovica watched for days, 20 meters from UNMIK and KFOR administrations, burning gypsies in a settlement that has more than 7,000 souls. They're doing a job for Albanians. They intend and aim to banish all remains of the state structure in Kosovo and Metohija, under the company's banishment of parallel structures. I sincerely rejoiced, as a man who had fought against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic for years, after his fall, I felt that UNMIK's administration would have a different approach to the Serbs living downstairs. Unfortunately, we've come to a different understanding and understanding. We Serbs believed that the departure of Slobodan Milosevic from power would improve the position of Serbs in Kosovo. Unfortunately, it's not. They believed that leaving the regime would help Slobodan Milosevic be able to banish the remnants of Serbia's state from the space. They call it a "cooperation request" loud and clear. They want co-operation, but what co-operation? Co-operation in all that everything that smells a little bit of Serbia's leftovers is slowly being extradited and expelled. Last year, we had a problem with schooling. We have barely managed to preserve the Serbian school, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education of Serbia. For example, a month ago in a maritime village of UNMIK, it continues to seek as much as possible, as quickly as possible to pick up schools in Kosovo again and join the Albanian school. Serbs working in those schools, when they say they are educational workers, workers of the Ministry of Education of Serbia, Mr. Dexter, who is in charge of education in Kosovo, says - if you want to know, we Ministry of Education of Serbia are paying out of our money and the Ministry of Education of Serbia will forbid you from being more of their workers than you have to be our workers. In a way, that's their whole story and their truth. Last year, they introduced us to customs. Now they're trying to make a unique registration. They, brothers and sisters, make a special state. Those Serbs can't protect, they have no mechanism, no way, and they won't. To do so, they must face Albanians, they must have victims, and they do not want to. On the other hand, there is no return of Serbs, nor will it be soon, not in this way and not in this policy. Only about 80 Serbs came back last year and nothing else. This year, they predict to return to the villages of Siga, Brestovic, near Peća, and these are Serbian villagers who do not have 30-40 homes. Also, they predict to return to the villages of Vica, Drenovic, Grabat, again with 50 houses. It's the whole return of Serbs they're planning, and we all know that Serbs lived mostly in cities. They don't regret it, and they won't return the Serbs. They care about making a fictitious multiethnic society, to justify their mission that they allegedly succeeded, that their policy produced results, and that so many Serbs experience every day accidents, conflicts, sufferings, which kill us at every step, which violence lasts, they don't care much. It's a policy that UNMIK leads and implements in its own way. Have we been able and able to do more than that in relation to the whole problem? I'm sure we can. We must always have one exact limit between co-operation and collaboration. Regardless of their demands and their stories of co-operation, we need to know what's within our limits. The Serbs can't sign any so-called. applications, because that's why they give up their ministries, and health care and education, and become workers of someone else's, us opposing and hostile states. We have been struggling for all this time here, for these years and some more days, with the formation of a committee on Kosovo. I think we had to get warm before, and we can do more. I hear now that the Women's Network wants to form a committee to protect its rights. I think this is our most pressing task, that there must be a committee for Kosovo that will deal with this problem. The National Assembly must put at least three months into question the position of our people on the agenda. The mass of the media must be clearly and loudly said that Serbs suffer and all the trouble they experience. It seems to me that you will run our state television downstairs a little, let's say, to any village to go to Slatina, Miroch, to see how three or four Serbian houses live. And that they have the same approach for all: for UNMIK statements and for statements by the Serbian side. They put a sign of equality. We've been working examples of a protest in Mitrovica a few days ago, i.e. A week ago, there were over 5,000 people, and that's the same thing as when 500,000 people came to Belgrade. They were saying, for God's sake, all those who symbolize Serbia and unity, so to speak. He was the vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Ljubisa Maravić, was Mr Momcilo Trajkovic as SPOT president and was Mr Goran Lazovic as the representative of the Coalition "Return". However, state television and all other television, on the fundamental and fundamental issue of the survival of the Serb municipality, did not give a word without saying a sentence. I witnessed in 1990, I had the opportunity to welcome Mr. Micunovic, Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Djog in Mitrovica. At the end of that visited stands, and remembers Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, the light is gone. There was no power. If that wasn't good then, it's not good now that I'm not telling the vice president of the Serbian Parliament that we're not giving a minute of space and it's not literally in any newspapers. We Serbs down in Kosovo must overcome these divisions. We showed UNMIK that we were complex, and we're literally not on state television, or someone close to whether the Coordination Centre or someone else banned whether because of Trajkovic or Maravić the entire report would appear. Thus, neither the Serbian position nor the Serbian thing is defended. On the other hand, we had another story. We had about after the November 17th election, a whole bit of it on Serbs who didn't go to the election. We were declared traitors, not to think well of our people, and not to work for the interests of our people. That's what I can say, because I stayed on the defender of that country, those bridges, and I was talking about somewhere more than 90 protests in Mitrovica; and suddenly I became a traitor, because I allegedly didn't want to go to the polls; against me and a few of us, the entire haranga was launched; we were replaced, we were hired in fact, spit. A hospital that was a symbol of Serbian defence and saved the city, has been named from the Coordination Centre as a litter of crime and corruption. There were three financial police, and in the end it was nothing, but it's like taking a pillow, so you shake out and you can never collect feathers again. That's one of our political stories. We just wanted to show that in one part of Serbia's space the mission of the international community failed. We weren't crazy to stop the whole election, to get Serbs out in the whole area, because we would take responsibility for the fate, the surprises and the troubles of all Serbs. And we knew that. It was neither correct nor fair to break up in such a way a misery of Serbian defence, to count among the torn and divided Serbs in such vulgar, in such an insolent and merciless way. But it doesn't matter that much, it doesn't matter that much. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to mobilise Serbs to survive below; that those living downstairs are complex, unique, without division, to have maximum support, without looking at political and party, whether it is someone from the Democratic Alternative, so we need to get all the functions we can or don't know what else. We have to push and we have to favor the best. We must use the potential of the Serbs who have avoided and who live in Serbia, that the negative energy of the people still standing around Serbia should be directed where it should be. Our opponents here in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter how anyone thinks, may even be less Albanians than the UNMIK administration. We need to focus it on those who were obliged to guarantee everyone the safety, survival, to prevent genocide and violence happening against Serbs. We must use this folk and positive energy of Serbs to survive Serbs. We have to ask Kosovo every three months. We have to work on it, on the system until the child starts crying, the mother will never take it. We need to bring up the problem of Serb refugees sleeping in collective accommodations. Why don't we move those collective accommodations if we have to in front of the embassy? We need to draw attention to the bad situation and the bad times. We need to tell the truth about our kidnapped and missing. We have the opportunity now to say, foreigners are talking, and KFOR is looking for mujahedin, those who killed Serbs. They must say where they disappeared, where they were kidnapped by Serbs. This congregation can't say that. It was the ones who came in June of '99. years to take care of Serbs. They are obliged to say where the kidnapped Serbs are, where the Serbs have disappeared and what has been happening for this time. They can't just be about the mere collateral damage. Once again, I think it doesn't cost much, that we have to form a committee for Kosovo, and we already have to do it, because it's the only committee we haven't formed in this time of year. We need a responsible policy to lead, to keep the Kosovo issue here on the agenda every three months, to actively engage in all of this: members of all political parties, and DOS, and the SPS, and the SRS, and the SSJ and the DSS. It seems to me that this is the most important nuanced question today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19245	Right on line, MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19246	Mr. Jaksic is absolutely right: the relevant and real forces of the Kosovo-Methohic Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been disabled because of the very clear thing, because we think differently politically. I'm just going to say the position of SPOT and mine, and I'm going to open the DOS relationship issue and open it in DOS, I'm not going to bring it up here. You cannot exclude the relevant force from Kosovo and Metohija, those of us who live and work there, and that the whole policy is left to some that, I say plainly speaking, the remote control manages the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. That's impossible. Please, the Serbian Resistance, which is the only DOS member, has been completely eliminated from today's policy. Apart from me, the MP, not one SPOT representative survived, because with SPOT, those who think that we do not have the right to a different opinion were accounted for to the end. I'm saying this, and I can't take off responsibility, I bear my responsibility, but I just want to say that Mr. Jaksic has no solution to our crisis, there is no survival of our people unless we gather all relevant political forces, just as Mr. Marko Jaksic counted them. Because it's about survival. Believe me, I can be a politician, but I can't be a politician about Kosovo and Metohija. Because when I leave here, I have to go back and talk to this people there, and keeping a position at all costs is not a policy that is supported in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I think it is urgent that everyone in the Assembly, both in the government and one and the other, return all relevant political forces, which should reach consensus, because Serbia and Yugoslavia's policies on Kosovo cannot be just Kosovo's elections. Where we've come from, the "return" coalition is going down, not because they don't want to, but because they can't. Because I've said before, they're not subject to this policy in Kosovo, they're an object and they won't be able to be an integral factor, though they want to be. And what happens is there's no other strategy. All those who thought differently are excluded from the game, they can't do anything, and the people are slowly leaving Kosovo and Metohija. I do not agree with that policy, and therefore I believe that all institutions and all political parties, including the DOS, to which I belong, and the Serbian Parliament and the Yugoslav Assembly, should urgently make a strategy and give every responsibility. Because when I leave here, believe me, I have no other authority than to speak there, as a People's MP. And who's running the policy? I have to tell the Socialists that some of their junk that left them, he's running politics. Those who called me a traitor 10 years ago and ten years ago today are taking matters into their own hands again, so I'm still, as in that regime, and in this regime, a man against state policy, a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19247	Right on line, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to remind you all that in May of last year we had a theme about Kosovo and Metohija, that we adopted the Declaration and that we were all unique. It is the only way to help the endangered Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. This proposal, signed by Mr Momcilo Perisic, to abolish the only remaining Serbian institution in Kosovo and Metohija, is shameful. Mr. Minister is talking about separatism, terrorism, weapons, drugs, borders, unheard of, and he doesn't remember that very Deputy Prime Minister was in charge of both borders and terrorism, and weapons, and drugs, which were then massively used, and also today - is being used in Kosovo and Metohija. This is something that is incomprehensible. I want to tell everyone that the eyes of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are against and are looking at Belgrade, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, want them to look in Pristina. They do not want Serbs to see and their eyes to be against Pristina, but they want to see and see their eyes to Belgrade, because it is only Belgrade that hopes that what is down there survives and creates conditions for the return of the refugees and displaced. I want to remind you once again -- Milosevic was born, created and created his myth in Kosovo and Metohija, so he fell because of Kosovo and Metohija. You gentlemen sign your political death today. Everything is born and everything falls when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. So I propose that this motion for a decision be withdrawn, that the Kosovo and Metohija committee be formed, that decisions be made - what and how to do, how to protect the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and ensure the conditions of return? The story of parallel institutions -- well, gentlemen, the Shiparis had 10 years of parallel institutions. Why don't we have parallel institutions? We have the right to have them. For what reason - for the reason that Resolution 1244 did nothing good, all the worse to the worse. Several thousand Serbs were killed, kidnapped 1,300 and some Serbs, and not to mention the material damage, how expelled, 200,000 Serbs, how burned down, how much property was robbed. There is no right for the UNMIK administration to ask the Serbian government to abolish all institutions that are to work in Kosovo and Metohija, and even less, it has the right to make the decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, consider, brothers, that this should return to dorado and bring what is right, to help the remaining Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19249	Thank you. Right on line, MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19250	Dearly respected families of kidnapped and missing persons from the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, I reported on the replica since I was mentioned in the discussion of distinguished counterpart Mark Jaksic and I want to make my contribution to the discussion on this agenda point and to give answers to some questions. There have been attempts in the past to bring unrest from this assembly booth between us Kosovo and Metohija and to create some division between us. And, if you remember, and then I intervened, and now I'm saying no one needs it, nor can it come to mind. We from Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the Serbian people in this parliament, will be firm and determined to create unity between all political entities in Kosovo and Metohija, for the sake of the interest of the rest and survival of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We also made this clear at a rally held the other day in Kosovo Mitrovica, in Šumadi Square, in a square where Serbs have been gathering for three years with various occasions, but mainly because of our gathering they were dissatisfaction with UNMIK administration decisions in Kosovo and Metohija. The UNMIK administration's decision in Kosovo and Metohija is also now to abolish the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality. The people of northern Kosovo, the people of Serbia's Mitrovica, made it clear that they did not accept the decision and would not accept it in the next period. The assembly passed a resolution and declaration, which was adopted uniquely, and in that resolution and declaration, it was clearly said that the conditions of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council for the Serb elections in Kosovo and Metohija were not met. After that, without any debate, and the debate was sought, it came out and was asked to go to Kosovo's elections, Kosovo and Metohija, under UNMIK's administration. It is more clear to all that UNMIK's administration in Kosovo and Metohija is in the hands and claws of their mentors from the Albanian separatist summit; UNMIK's administration has seen that they have failed to reconcile them to a division of functions in the Kosovo Assembly, which they are now establishing. Questions must be answered by the competent state authorities -- who is playing this game with us Serbs again in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to Kosovo, when it comes to education and when it comes to health care? UNMIK has called a competition to elect a director of secondary and primary schools, a competition has been called for the selection of primary health care directors. It wants to take the two main headquarters of the remains and survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija from our hands. It's true that the rally was and that there was no report on TV. Which is why I don't know. Perhaps some are disturbed by our unity in Kosovo and Metohija. However, I must point out that I personally intervened several times in front of the SPS parliamentary group. In addition to not showing us on TV, they do not portray me, as vice president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, or in the working presidency, gentlemen from TV Belgrade. Which is why I don't know. Most likely, I may be in their way. Their explanation is that there are no technical solutions. If you want, anything can be found, a technical solution can be found, because I think the full-time working presidency should be there, and perhaps some do not mind that I, the SPS representative, and perhaps that I am a representative of the Serbs from Kosovo. In any case, to finish, we Serbs from Kosovo will not be collateral damage, it is our determination to stay and survive in the Kosovo-Methochial spaces, and to create conditions for the return of all those who wish to return and who once lived in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. [[Branislav Ivkovic seeks replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19251	The People's Messenger Predrag Canovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundzija. Mr. Ivkovic, I didn't give you the right... I didn't give a word to Mr. Wolf, and I won't give it to you either. The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic. As president of the parliamentary group, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19252	Since the chairman has assessed as always that the president of the opposition party's parliamentary group does not have the right to reply, although Mr Marko Jaksic has made it clear and loud -- the SRS, the SS and the SS, unfortunately, I am using those 10 minutes on which I have the right as president of the parliamentary group. I would like to say in the replica, Mr Marko Jaksic, that your exposure is certainly supported by all those MPs who respect their country, the Republic of Serbia and whose goals are essential to the survival of the Serbian people in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The SPS has always committed to our cohesion and our association around the national pair of excellencies of interest in the areas of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. It is certain that Kosovo and Metohija are parexelans a question for the Serbian people and for the Serbian state. That is why we have asked for space to be created within the Committee on International Affairs for the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we have also supported the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija as one nor that every parliamentary group in this House has an obligation to delegate its members and to take care of everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Although, I must say, look at the parliamentary benches of DOS representatives from individual parties, especially separatist parties that are also thinking about the work of Vojvodina. Look how few there are in these areas, I apologize to those present, but it is obvious that their absence here speaks of it, and I have not mentioned any party, what is the interest in a single capital issue, capital issue for the Serbian people and for the Serbian state. If he wants to know, this is not a discussion of the Interim Executive Council. The decision by the Republika Srpska Assembly in September 1998, when OSCE representatives to Kosovo and Metohija arrived in September, to form a temporary executive, proved absolutely correct. It is those who have formed a temporary executive in the composition in which it was formed that have shown a relationship, if you want the SPS, towards Kosovo and Metohija as a multinational and multi-confessional environment. Exactly the composition of members of the Interim Executive Council from all national environments, I repeat, and Jafer Djukanovic from Peći, and Ismail, who were killed and killed precisely because they worked within the Interim Executive Council, which was tasked with caring for the status of all Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, shows how correct this composition is. The fact that the request was rejected (please bring me the material of Žarkov, please bring me the material to read, to read only the titles) of the SPS parliamentary group to print a report that has been submitted to the temporary executive council (thanks nicely, Mr Canovic) on 51 pages, where it is absolutely clear what has been done in the interim execution: what has been done by the Regional Secretariat for the organization of administrations and regulations; what has been done by the Regional Secretariat for Local Self-Government; what has been done by the Regional Secretariat for the Realisation of the Rights of National Minorities; what has the Regional Secretariat for Economic Affairs; what has been done by the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management; what has been done by the Regional Secretariat for Trade, Tourism and Services; for Finance; for Child Care; for Humanitarian Affairs; the Ministry for Health; for Education and Water Management; talks; on the aims of the Executive Office. If you want to know the position of the SPS parliamentary group, he's on his way even though Mrs Milky... (Milka Marinkovic's domination from now on. I don't like telling her about her Pozega. We're for the Temporarily Executive Council. Sir, don't warn me, Mr. Wolfie and you, you're not the same as Milka. Please, we are in order for it to survive temporarily larger, let the majority in the Assembly give the staff of the Interim Executive Council, so be it, but that through the Interim Executive Council, the Republic of Serbia continues to protect the interests of Serbian citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija through all the bodies that had temporary executively greater. While the interim executive council functioned as such, in Kosovo and Metohija all those who respected the Republic of Serbia had support both in humanitarian and material terms. The moment the Interim Executive Council made it clear that it was against the elections and the Hekerup Constitution, it was immediately eliminated from the Coordination Centre. The SPS's position is that the temporary executive council justified its status. We are voting against its abolition because it, as it is perceived, in the second staff and there is no problem being a second staff, provides a chance for the state of Serbia to continue its presence in Kosovo and Metohija. I agree that there is a need for a calm pace of negotiation, one determination in the performance, without extreme attitudes, slowly, tirelessly, step by step, to look for room for co-operation, if you want with all those acting in Kosovo and Metohija's territory, especially with representatives of the international community. No matter what they are, they are there, they are an important factor in Kosovo and Metohija. And we, if we have the authority of the Republic of Serbia that forms the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a temporary executive, through this organ, through the quality people most in this assembly will choose, through the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, we have room for people most of whom believe (and everyone here, because that is how we should behave when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and real personnel will have the support of the SPS, regardless of which parties they are from), to work hard to build the presence of the Serbian authorities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The Interim Executive Council should only say the following: The Centre for Peace and Tolerance is the product of the Interim Executive Council, but those who met the Centre for Peace and Tolerance on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija should know and know for sure that the centre functioned as its name and name tells it. It did not distinguish between Serbs, Albanians, Montenegrins, Muslims, but rather tried in terrible conditions of operation by the OSCE, especially the tragedy during NATO aggression, to help those who were in trouble. Thank you very much. (Alexander Wolf, from the scene: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19253	We've got a few reports for the replica. Mr. Vukiæu, MP Branislav Ivkovic just said - Mr. Vukiæu, don't warn me. (Alexadar Vukic, from the place: Please, he didn't just say that, do I have the right to a replica? Come on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was offended by Mr. Ivkovic, compared me with some DOS representative, which is an insult for every Serbian radical, perhaps for you, but it certainly is for us. That was the reason for the replica. I must say a few sentences tied up, since you have taken away our right to speak, to everyone in the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, according to both the post-law and the law, about what Mr Ivkovic is talking about, about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Recently, holding the Tribune in Vrnjačka Banja, visited by Simo Spasic and other representatives of the Association of the Kidnapped, I said that the state is almost concerned, and of course not saying that it is always possible to solve any problem, but shows its relationship, pride, haughtiness towards everyone who thinks differently from the Serbian Government, who today cheers and dresses at every step in Serbia. I mean, there were strange things going on in this room the moment you didn't want to give me the right to a replica. So it happened that Republika Srpska's government minister told Serbian Radical Party MP Gordani Pop-Lazic that he would collect it with a pack outside the National Assembly. Then you can think where it came from. To those who threatened me with the greetings of Carla del Ponte, those who told me on the way that I would answer for Koha Ditore, I must say one thing: those who know me know me, know I'm not timid. I'm not afraid of your threats, or the nonsense you say, or the arrests, or anything else, but I'm telling you one thing: this is how it is, in one way or another. Someone can try to do it, maybe the opposite of party functions, I'm telling you it won't work, but after that, they'll have someone to avenge me and they'll have the code to bring it back to those who did it. You should take care of that, because you've made a lot of people unhappy. Your argument against the Serbian Radical Party is the only thing -- you've been in the government for two years with the Socialist Party of Serbia. Yes, we have been in the government for two years with the Socialist Party of Serbia, and you are now alone and absolutely ruling for two years, and the Serbian people are getting harder and worse, the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are getting harder and worse, the Serbian people in southern Serbia are getting harder and worse, the Serbian people in all Serbian countries are getting harder and worse. The mention of Marko Jaksic just before national television. There is no more Republika Srpska on state television and on all other TVs. It was kicked out of weather, no more rain, no more sun in Republika Srpska. No one mentions her anymore because nothing that is Serbian can be mentioned anymore. It's a disgrace to Serbia. You deal with lies through the media, about how you allegedly arrest security of the Serbian Radical Party. Here are all the papers here that prove you're liars, what kind of forgers you are, what are you able to say? (President: Time. ) You are in a position, I will finish the president of the National Assembly, to tell of the man Dragan Milunovic-Julet, your fellow MP who gave his life for the Serbian country by defending Kosovo and Metohija, making a joke about his death in Prince Michael. You should be ashamed and ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19255	Right to replica, MP Zivica Predojev, a replica caused by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19256	President-in-Office of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have an obligation to inform this Parliament and the public that Mr Bane Ivkovic said in his speech a very great lie. I may not be fully aware, but Mr. Bane Ivkovic said - the separatist party from Vojvodina. Personally, I don't know any party from Vojvodina who has a separation in his program as some kind of commitment. That's the first thing. The second thing, he pointed to us and said they were not present during this very important debate. I agree that it is a very important debate, but we must start from the fact that Kosovo has been declared out of Serbia's constitutional and legal system. As I recall, it was just at a time when Mr Bane Ivkovic, the party he represents in this parliament, led this country and took care of Kosovo and Metohija. I don't want to mention some other people, who also took very patriotic care of Serbia at the time, and we see how they led it. That's why I'm asking for a practical apology from Mr Banet Ivkovic, or from the Socialist Party of Serbia for one notorna, I'm not going to tell a lie, but it's not true when he says there are separatists in Vojvodina. There are people in Vojvodina who think well of Vojvodina, and therefore Serbia. And otherwise, if the force is applied in Kosovo and Metohija, if one applies it is applied precisely because they learned it from the Socialist Party of Serbia, from how they changed the status of Kosovo and Vojvodina, how they changed the Constitution throughout Serbia, so they should not complain and drill into patriotic breasts; they will only have very large bruises, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19257	Right on line, MP Milka Marinkovic; the replica was challenged by MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19258	There's no way you're confusing me, and that's why you'd better shut up and cover your ears. For me, the theme of Kosovo is delicate, serious and very tragic, because as a man and as a mother, I fully understand the terrible tragedy of Serbs that took place and took place in Kosovo. But let's look some truth into the eyes and see what's been going on for at least the last 10 years, at least when it comes to me and Mr. Ivkovic; who I don't know where there's more freedom, where there's more rights, and how he's not ashamed that he's been trying to show from this pay phone that we don't care about Kosovo, how we keep our mouths shut and grin at this tragedy. So, let's see what Mr. Ivkovic did for 10 years, and what I did. For 10 years, Mr. Ivkovic was the headquarters of a regime under which Serbia lost a third of its territory. While Mr. Ivkovic spent money from the budget illegally as the minister and headquarters of the regime, I cried in Požega while the columns of refugees that their chief manager, who is in The Hague, were arriving in the cities of Serbia, were fighting a fight that only he knew what he was fighting for. These refugees, I am not afraid of the situation in Požega, are all taken care of; Milka Marinkovic, who allegedly does not care about Kosovo and what happens to Serbs in any part of the territory, knows that they are taken care of in every respect. Mr. Ivkovic, I ask that he no longer lecture any of us; and don't continue to abuse the poor people of Kosovo, saying that they would solve something, so that we don't know anything. You've had your chance for 10 years, Mr. Ivkovic, to show you what you've done. You were the headquarters of that policy that was actually a secret and silent part of your manager in The Hague and Mr. Rugova, who read (Milosevic): you to me power, I to you state. That's what I've fought against for 12 years, Mr. Ivkovic, and in the end we just managed to win. That chief manager of yours has never told anyone his condolences for losing their children to the sites he's made. For years, I cried for those children, went to those children's funerals, who came in crates, which your manager sent to us in various cities. So I ask you: don't - once again I say that I know that this topic is delicate, that it's terrible, that we fight with all our strengths to help as much as we can - you're going to disgust people and that word, because you've disgusted patriotism, because you've polluted honesty, you've disgusted a lot of things. Don't go out again and tell us what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19259	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19260	Indeed, it is painful and embarrassing to talk about the past ten years in any context. The problem of Kosovo and Metohija, for those who do not know and who may not be able to find it on the geographical map, and here they teach us lessons, is much older and exists long ago, since the first and second Prizren League, since the Bujan conference in 1943. Ten years ago, and before that, Serbia was defending itself down there, protecting all people equally, regardless of religion, religious and national membership, protecting their lives and integrity of this country against those who killed and who dragged them towards separatism. Don't change the thesis, let's bring lies here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19261	The People's Messenger Predrag Canovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally let me come to my turn. In light of the suspension of the interim executive council of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, the government of the Republic of Serbia is calling for Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council, under which the exercise of basic civilian functions moves into UNMIK's jurisdiction, and is calling for recently held Kosovo elections, with an explanation that the Kosovo Assembly will form an existing body. I may be wrong, but by reading this explanation, I was under the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia has come to terms with the occupation of Kosovo and the Metohija by the NATO Pact, not to use the more difficult term - the disowns of Kosovo and Metohija. Our general public is well aware that the Serbian Unity Party has been opposed from the very beginning to Serbia's participation in the Kosovo elections, because we were aware that by participating in these elections, NATO's pact, we would give legitimacy to create an independent Albanian state in Serbia's territory. As we can see, we were absolutely right, because today it is clear to the young children that the Serbs in the so-called The "Return" coalition is not in the role of defence of Serbian national interests, but is likely to protect the function and are in the role of someone else's interests. What, then, can the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija hope for? We are faced with devastating facts. It is illusory to speak about the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The other day, in the centre of Lipljana, in a cowardly and ferocious manner, Ljubica Kovacevic, a Serb, mother of three, was killed. Serbs in Strpc are in the KFOR environment and are scrambling for the survival of their municipality. It is similar with other Serb enclaves. Not to mention missing and kidnapped persons whose fate is not known today. We are also facing another devastating fact today that UNMIK wants to take full responsibility for the organisation of health services in Kosovo and Metohija. Even the director of the health home in Gracanica was replaced and brought by a similar director, a certain Dr. Zorica Nedeljkovic, as I recall, there is Mr. Momcilo Trajkovic, so he can confirm or deny this news, which signed UNMIK's application. UNMIK, therefore, wants to first take over the health care department's authority, then on education, so it wants to take charge of these two most vital segments of social life, so that the rest of the occupation process is just a matter of technique. So one logical question arises: what has the state done to prevent it? What has the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, headed by Mr Nebojsa Covic, done to prevent this? These days, the press says that the headquarters of the Kosovo Co-ordination Centre and Metohija is located on Užička Street 25 on Dedinj. I don't know if that's true, but some of the relevant people should come here and deny it or confirm it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that Kosovo and Metohija are under the occupation of the NATO Pact. The fact is that Kosovo today is the largest camp for Serbs. But fortunately, each occupation has its beginning and end. At least that's what history says. After all, we have been under Turkish evil for 500 years, freed ourselves of this slavery, and it is certain that we will free ourselves from occupations in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know exactly when, because fighting for the historical right of a nation has never been easy. Sometimes it takes generations to achieve the historical right of a nation, but I'm sure it will come true. Until that happens, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the opinion of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, must not take a single step, not one move that would recognise that our state of Serbia has no authority in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of Serbia. It is the only way we can maintain our historic right to sometimes, of course, in some new changed international circumstances, when we again question Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. Until that happens, the state should do everything possible to protect the remaining Serbs and other non-Albanians from the Shyptar terror. I fear that by abolishing this legal state body, we will have a counterproduct and that its abolition will have, among other things, negative psychological connotation on the remaining Serb animal in Kosovo and Metohija. Out of all things, and because of the fact that Serb Unity Party MPs have repeatedly requested that Kosovo and Metohija's session session be asked on the agenda, which is not answered, the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group will not support a proposal to abolish the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19263	The word is given by the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, and then by Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19264	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Observers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what is most tragic in this whole of our tragic story about Kosovo is that there are still those who would like to make a cheap point. Ten years, for getting cheap points, we got where we came from. The Patos patriotism here is most shown to us by those whose diploma is Security Council Resolution 1244 and the Kumanian Agreement. Under the resolution, both under the agreement in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia has been expelled. That's a fact. Now, it wouldn't be so tragic if they didn't try to take responsibility for what's in Kosovo and Metohija. We gentlemen know very well what the situation is in Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike you, this authority is present in Kosovo and Metohija to the extent possible. Unlike you, who have always had the need to falsify institutions, so Kosovo's temporary larger Kosovo was actually a fixation, and you knew it. So, you've appointed a temporary higher jurisdiction for which you knew in advance that it couldn't execute them, trying to trick - who? If the the thesis is that state institutions should be falsified, because the occupier will one day leave because the occupation will eventually cease, then there is either a logical error or a deliberate prank. When you're occupied by a country, then you can act in front of an international community once the right to return to your territory. But if what you call an occupier, and what you brought and signed to be there, then you can't attribute anything to us, if what you call an occupier is an international community and a Security Council, for which you fought and said that we have to endure the bombing so that these forces will be to God's Security Council, not NATO. So, if that's true, who, if not that international community, will be able to, whether or not they want to give us back sovereignty on that part of the territory. Since we do not have the need to falsify institutions, nor to falsify patriotism, nor to falsify results, our intention is to realistically look at the situation from which we come and see if we have any opportunities to do something and then work on it. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that for anyone who is at least a speck attached to what was happening in Kosovo and Metohija, everything seems slow and everything seems insufficiently efficient. We understand that. For the torment of the people who have lived through it and who have lived through it for years, I think it's a second too long. But the fact is, if we measure what's done, then we have to wonder if we're measuring from the beginning or from the goal. Gentlemen, we have begun from the goal you have come to, and that is that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia that no longer belongs to the constitutional and legal order of Serbia and is governed by the international community. So, from your end, we've been going from the beginning. What's our goal? Our goal is to reintegration Kosovo into Serbia and Yugoslavia. Our goal is to bring the Serbs back to Kosovo and Metohija. Our goal, unlike your goals, is not to claim that the police must be ours and the majority population Albanian, because that is not possible. So the police must be the ones who live there. The institutions of the system cannot be built from Belgrade by delegating people, but by the environment in which people live. Those living in that territory will form their institutions, unfortunately. We can say it's not the best solution, but unfortunately, it's the only possible solution. We can't deny it just like that. So, if we talk about the Temporary Council, we ask whether it was the moment it was formed that made sense. We can assume that it happened before many other events and that maybe at that point it made some sense, maybe it did something or didn't, that it shouldn't be judged. After all that's happened, thanks to the policy that's been led, the temporary council has no meaning whatsoever, except that it can't perform any of the functions for which it's formed. The fact that it should be held as a fixed institution for us is completely pointless, because fiddling reality and running away from the truth and from reality has led this country where it is now. We think that everything that's someone's idea of something being done is unnecessary and that beyond the show, there's really something to do. I'd just like to say a few more words about the Coordination Centre and the Coordination Body. The goal of the previous government, which it arrived at, is that the south of Serbia was a territory which no Serb police officer, no Serb soldier could set foot in. It's so-called. A land-based security zone, an air security zone, where Serbia had no right to protect its citizens and all the citizens who live there. In this short time, the military and police, as the United Security Force, have returned the Sui Land Area to safety has been abolished. I hope we're on our way to cancel the airlock. What has been done in Kosovo and Metohija is that the real situation of what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, where the other Serbs are in general, where there are opportunities for Serbs to return. A plan has been made, again with the international community, because without them it cannot, they are wondering there, for the return of those who had to leave Kosovo and Metohija in those environments where such a return is now possible. I repeat again, we fully understand that the speed to go is insufficient for those affected by this accident, but always let them go from which speed is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19265	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP Vuko Antonijevic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19266	As for the dilemma whether to abolish the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija, there are indeed a lot of arguments where it can be said that it has not done anything at all. If it is understood that we are abolishing the Yugoslav Committee, to abolish the Regional Executive Council, then Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija experience it in a different way, because they realize that the state of Serbia is slowly withdrawing from those areas. This is what the Serbian torment in Kosovo is growing and the situation is becoming more difficult. I don't see what would bother you if there were more state institutions at this point. Probably that financial control, as far as the Rural Executive Council is concerned, maybe personal changes, maybe all that situation, maybe all these arguments stand. As much as we want to bond more and more with the state of Serbia, sometimes I have the impression that this same state of ours wants to separate us. We understand when they want UNMIK or KFOR to do it, but we don't understand when our country does it. What is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, there should be and the state of Serbia should be as present as you can see for yourself that the degree of violence is increasing and greater, that there is no return, that Serbs slowly sell houses and properties and slowly leave Kosovo and Metohija, and that they are silent here. As we shut down the Temporary Executive Council, as we shut down the Yugoslav Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, no committee on Kosovo and Metohija has been formed for a year. Is that what anyone doesn't want? If there is an argument that these institutions are shut down, is there any argument that this committee for Kosovo and Metohija is not forming, although it is the only assembly committee that is not formed and not working. This, in continuance, is experienced in a different way by the unfortunate Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, causing the institutions to disappear. I'm not saying that to defend the work of the Interim Executive Council, is there really non-intentionally spent money, how much they could do and whether they made a mistake when the headquarters moved from Kosovo to the Kopalnik. I just want to ask the Serbian Parliament once again that this committee on Kosovo and Metohija should be formed as soon as possible. So what's really happening in Kosovo and Metohija and what's burdening the few people left, we finally know if there's anything to help that people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19267	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19268	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reminders and truths, I would like to give your attention to the following facts: firstly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the 2nd extraordinary session of 28 September 1998, has adopted the Decision on the education of the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija. The National Assembly's decision, to form the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija, was made at the time of the strongest international relations in the AP, resulting from the years-long and decades-long functioning of Albanian separatists, with the goal of separating the sovereign part of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ from the state framework and forming as a separate state, and then joining the Republic of Albania. Failure in attempts to achieve the stated objective of civil disobedience, demolition demonstrations and illegal enemy work, was initiated by organised violence rarely seen in the world frameworks, and has been highlighted as being assisted from abroad. This violence has practically flooded cities and villages in the province. In such a situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes to make a decision on the formation of PIV, with the intention of contributing to the prevention of political and other conflicts, bringing them into democratic and toleranceal frameworks and contributing to the strengthening of civil authorities in the province, which could not and is thought of power, was fully established because the majority of Albanians, by order of separatist leaders and also out of fear of retribution, boycotted the elections. In these conditions, PIV acted in fact as a assembly committee in Kosovo and Metohija, handling decisions by the National Assembly on tasks in Kosovo and Metohija, because other powers did not exist. I would also like to say that these highest executive bodies were represented, without exception, members of all the national communities living in that area, were involved, Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, etc. So much for history, for what was happening and for how it was written. What were the main topics of PIV work? First of all, these were topics related to calming tensions in the province; showing commitment, will and willingness to co-operate and dialogue of all national communities; providing humanitarian assistance to the endangered population, enabling temporary displaced persons to return to their homes; creating local security as a defense against terrorist attacks; developing information in the languages of national minorities; creating conditions for normal development of the school system in the region; many current problems, and with a fundamental goal of resolving problems in the region by peaceful and democratic means. And for the record, the PIV budget provided assistance to Kosovo-Methohic areas for the most basic activities, etc. The PIV's performance was in one condition and had one segment in pre-war events, while its operation was significantly different under conditions when NATO's alliance bombs fell on Kosovo territory and on Serbia-Yugoslavia's territory. Of course, the third type of performance occurs when UNMIK came to Kosovo and, of course, under the patronate and in the sight of UNMIK, the greatest atrocities were executed. In this situation, ruralally greater, in co-operation with the Government of People's Unity, was practically present in every part of Kosovo. It can be checked, not only in Kosovo Mitrovica, where and now it can still be safely reached, not in Leposavic, not in Zubin Potok; but in Gjilan, Lipjan, Old Town, Laplem Village, in Caglavica, in Orahovac, in Gorazdevec, in Velika Hoca; and these are not only geographical concepts and not just names and locations in Kosovo. So these are the places that were covered by the work of this council and by the work of the representatives of the Government of National Unity. The government had a co-ordinator at the time in charge of Kosovo alone and of solving these problems. It was this bond with the people of Kosovo, and this was spoken here by our fellow MPs who came from Kosovo, who live there now, they know the situation better. You should have lived once to meet in Old Town, where during the time of the execution, Serb people were slaughtered, Serbian men were slaughtered; to talk to their families and to ask them when they would leave. That's where the school had to be made. There it had to be possible for those people, who wanted to stay there, to educate their children. That's the bond that has to exist. I don't know because I don't have that information, whether someone left the government today in Kosovo beyond Mitrovica and the Zubian stream; whether he was in those places where there are more Serbs, in Gorazdevec, which is practically in the environment; whether there is somewhere in Gjilan and around Gjilan. I think discussing it from a distance is totally unproductive and totally incomplete. So I think if it bothers someone that's temporarily bigger founded by another government and the president of this executive council is a man who's the secretary of the SPS, so let's change his name, change that president, let's make some kind of different, organisational form, that will make that bond possible. Are the costs great? Let's see how we cut them short. Did someone waste it illogically? Let him answer for it. They can't be the reasons why this bond shouldn't exist and why these people should be left behind. So it's got to be something, maybe it's the Assembly Committee instead of the Executive Council. There has to be something, we stand for it, and because of that until it happens we won't vote for a decision that means abolishing, until we see what else is offered better and what it is that will allow it to be there. Otherwise, the only thing we have left is to make a petitial Stanko and bring them cookies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19269	The word has a folk MP Dragisa Djokovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic, but we will probably take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19270	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hear the name Kosovo and Metohija after a very long period in this assembly. It's just that a lot of things happened down there, a lot of things happened in this country, and we kept avoiding in the Assembly to mention the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. We even persistently avoided continuing to avoid forming a assembly committee for Kosovo and Metohija, which would deal with this, which would have reports and information. It's unfortunate that this subject is not interesting to you, that there are currently 120 people in this room. I know it's much more interesting to look for champagne, cookies and other things, but there's someone who's more important to other things. If this assembly had worked a little more seriously, I wouldn't have talked about the work of the Coordination Centre or the lady who spoke earlier, I might have talked about it myself. Because you will not believe this is a paper (shows) signed by three very important men in this country by Mr Kostunica, Covic and Djindjic. The paper says Dragisa Djokovic and Vuko Antonijevic are members of the Co-ordination Centre since 25 January. During all this time, neither I nor Mr Antonijevic invited anyone to a meeting, nor were we allowed to participate, work on the work of that organ and that body. Therefore, this Coordination Centre should be discussed, not self-proclaimed portfolios. It's just that when we talk about this point today, about abolishing PIV, we can't go over it without submitting and not getting a report; why without a report, why without a question of responsibility. Maybe there'll be a reward. Maybe that organ and that PIV were doing well, so we'll reward him or he's doing a bad job, and we'll punish and resolve. Where are his reports? There was a lot of things, it was a long time. Why? If we're responsible and we're honest, and we're honest, they'll wonder if it's possible in politics, and I'll try. I prefer the truth more than anything else. I have to look into the voters, both the people and everyone's eyes. I'll tell you gentlemen, the current government, which I voted for last year, when we passed and passed the new Government Act, when we chose that government, the most transparent, the best possible in the world, the strongest and brightest, etc. - that was supposed to, look at the wonders, in a year's time to file some report to the assembly, there's nothing to do with it. We hope he can handle it in four years. Each DOS has its own favorite in the SPS, so one group prefers Banet Ivkovic, and another group prefers Zoran Angelkovic - Baki. Are these old relationships, when they were once in the same party, individuals from DOS, or something else, so it is necessary to keep Zoran Angelkovic and his PIV out of responsibility, but we will do so with one piece of paper, one decision, and it will pass and that will end. As early as May 31st, when we discussed Kosovo, when we brought the Declaration on the Rights of the Serbian People in Kosovo and Metohija, which is said in the declaration (this is one of the documents we later stepped down, as well as a lot of the Assembly that we have stepped down): "The document The Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government is not accepted, because it prejudges the final solution to the damage to the state interests of the SRJ, Serbia, Serbs and other non-Albanian population in the province. That document does not guarantee institutional protection of the freedoms and rights of non-Albanian ethnic communities". Dear friends, brothers and sisters, that's when the prime minister was in this place. That's when I asked, not to read you a quote now, to get PIVIL off the hook to give him something to do. The Prime Minister nodded, but there was nothing from it until today. We simply quickly and so expressly formed and abolished the Yugoslav Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, so effectively destroyed it, so effectively this government replaced DOS MPs, or MPs of the ruling majority -- see absurda, this is the only government that replaces MPs. In normal countries it is the opposite - MPs are replacing the government. This government replaced the ruling majority MPs, of the number 176, wherever she could and however she could. That's why we came into this situation, to talk about this decision today, where we don't have any paper, no report. I will tell you only one thing - that this PIV (what Minister Batić could not, normally, have not had time to say everything) has 229 employees. Their January budget, according to the justice ministry and local self-government, was 10 million dinars. They had their own TV stations, and radio stations, and copier machines, and computers, and a lot of things, cars. Let's see where the money was used, what have they been doing in the last year, what have they done before and how have they been doing after that? It's simple, what's the point of all this -- the point is that we're going to cancel the PIV and we're going to vote for that decision. However, the Coordination Centre, which was to succeed this PIV, is not doing its job. That's the point of it all, that the Coordination Center doesn't exist. There's only one man who does whatever he wants. What is the point of the work of the Coordination Centre -- dear friends, please, the point of all this is to get the Serbs out of Belgrade, to hook them up to Pristina. The Serbs in Kosovo are the remains of an exiled people, those who still hold on, resist forces, without any rights, and until when we see. Since Serbs live in Kosovo, it is not life, it is not worthy of man, it is not worth living. Many of you, mostly all of these 176, were at odds in November in Kosovo and in refugee centres in Serbia, explaining to the Serbs that it is good for them to go to the elections, to vote, to get all the beauty, all the happiness, when they go to the province's elections. Now go and tell them, after 108th of the destroyed Serbian church, after I don't know which, thousands of Serbian victims in Lebanon and other places, now tell them, to all Serbs - that this is the result of you going to the elections, that is, what we went to the elections and what we got, and it is not the result that Adam Demati proposed Radu Trajkovic for the president of Kosovo, etc. As a result, Rangel Nokic will be appointed director of the post office from Belgrade and will be tasked with firing 90% of the Serbs, while the remaining 10% will be included in Kosovo's mail, because there must be no Serbian mail down there, that the Payment Transport Service will be abolished, that the "Serbian" will be abolished, and that it becomes "Kosovo" and everything else, so that Serbia doesn't stay below either -- "S". It's our mission, our country, our government, our center. We're gonna make this decision, we're gonna end this bigger one. That's what we're gonna do, but then what? Who's gonna be responsible? We take one big responsibility. (Don't, Milka, throw it to me, you're very well known for it. We may have a duel somewhere in front of TV cameras, but please respect my time, I respected yours, and as one lady you would have to have understanding. ) So what I'm saying is that this is a very important topic. I know that this government doesn't respect the Assembly very much, unfortunately, the Parliament that has chosen the government, that many ministers have never, not even the Deputy Prime Minister, set foot in this assembly. One of them is Mr Nebojsa Covic. It was the turn that, at least today, when such an important item of the agenda is discussed, if the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, can't at least be present here, to say what the concept is when we abolish a PIV that didn't do anything, I agree, but we don't have a report, so we don't know whether it worked or didn't work. In my opinion, it wasn't working well and it wasn't working properly, it should have been lifted long ago. He was supposed to tell us what's new, what's gonna happen, so we should know. The assembly had its own resolution, she had her own declaration, she had the rest. Do we have a strategy, do we have tactics? What will be further -- it will continue to be that, in addition to our persistent insistence, the Kosovo and Metohija committee will not be formed, no one will submit reports to that committee, such as a dead letter on paper that the Assembly resolution states that it obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia to report once a month on its work in Kosovo and Metohija and to strengthen ties in the fields of education, health and others, rather than pushing, to force Serbs to join Kosovo institutions. No UNMIK institutions, UNMIK is not treated, UNMIK are not doctors, UNMIK are not professors, UNMIK are not students. They're all very well written and very well-healthed, they don't need our health care and education. That's what the Albanians need. This is a serious topic. This is where the members of all other parties had to be involved. I don't understand why the gentlemen of the SRS fired their loans like that yesterday, so they got warnings that they can't talk about it today. Mr. Kragovic had to report on this, and he was, after all, a member of some organs there and he had to save his time, to get a chance to say something about this in his discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19271	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. I ask you to continue your work to determine if the National Assembly has a quorum. Please insert your identification cards. I understand we have a quorum to work with. For the words of the Rules of Procedure or People's MP Zarko Obradovic as a representative of the parliamentary group. Replic or Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19273	My fellow MPs, I came forward on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group because at the end of the previous session, the president of the SPS parliamentary group and the secretary-general of the SPS, who is also the president of the Interim Executive Council, were mentioned today, as discussed. I think there is a reason why I called because instead of discussing the work of the Interim Executive Council, a fellow MP discussed and discussed these two people and the SPS. I don't think there's any need to talk about people personally, because if that's the way to cover up problems, conflicts within DOS, that's one story. But if it isn't, then there's no need to shed crocodile tears for SPS health. Believe it or not, but I assure you, the SPS is fine. If you want to know what condition we are in, please call the elections and you will see what the situation in Serbia is, today where DOS is and what the results of this policy are and where the SPS is. Secondly, since Mr. Zoran Angelkovic, who is also president of the Interim Executive Council and is the secretary general of the SPS, is mentioned, I ask one question to the Serbian Parliament, the Parliament and MPs: why is Mr. Zoran Angelkovic not invited to this session of the National Assembly today? Isn't it logical that a man who is president of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija will be invited to attend the meeting of the National Assembly, that he participates in the work of this assembly, so that he can also speak of the work of the disunity. Don't you think he'd come? Zoran Angelkovic remained in Kosovo and Metohija during all 78 days and nights of the bombing and after that, and did not resort to the terror of Albanian terrorists, so you could call him today. Believe that he would come, so he would answer some questions asked by fellow MPs, and then the questions would probably be different because he would be there. But we socialists, since you didn't think you needed to call him, we'll answer on his behalf and talk about PIV's work. When I say talk about PIV's work, it was correct that today's agenda item has one more thing, and this thing is called a PIV report, so that the MPs say - worked or did not work, good or bad, is not important, but that the MPs are discussing something called the PIV's work report, and not like this one, let me say, a simple decision, without any material, with arbitrary qualifications, with estimates that don't stand, with consequences clearly not taken into account by the promoter. But those who participate, at least we SPS MPs will talk about PIV's work, see what PIV was doing, what PIV meant for Kosovo and Metohija, for that people down there and what he did on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19274	The People's MP Kragovic is asking, you got the word based on the replica, and now the request for a word would be? The MP Djokovic mentioned you by name and that is the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposal for a decision by the Serbian government to abolish temporarily large Kosovo and Metohija, which was established by the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is another evidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia is above parliament, above the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia not abolish the Coordination Centre, the body it has formed, because we hear it is not working, which it does, government and manages with Dedinj, more precisely from Užička 25. Such a body does not need Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You abolished the Yugoslav Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and it could work and operate under Security Council Resolution 1244. Why remove institutions that can help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Instead of making personal changes, you remove institutions, ties between Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija with the queen of Serbia and Yugoslavia. To whom it is in the interest that one institution at a time should care for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should be abolished without all remaining in the hands of one man. It is, gentlemen, in the interest of occupiers, Shipara and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the opposite interest of Serbs who remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija. At the time of the formation of the PIV in Kosovo and Metohija, more than 300,000 Serbs lived, and someone had to worry about them. Today, Nebojsa Covic is taking over from Dedinj, trying to tell Serbs that they must approach the Shiptars, that they must have and support the Cypriot authorities, terror, robbery, murder and kidnapping. What is Nebojsa Covic doing? He blackmails and replaces people, makes dissension and division among Serbs, joins them in the Democratic Alternative, and then offers them directoral seats and commits to co-operation with occupiers and Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Alternative spokeswoman says - Serbs cannot be police officers, soldiers in Kosovo and Metohija, because the Cypriot people are in the majority, so they must be police officers and soldiers. I disagree, Serbs are the majority people in Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not accept being a minority. They want all rights that Serbs in Serbia have. You, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will go after this session to your homes, and we representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will go before the pipes of the occupier, in front of the pipes of some alleged peace mission, which has not fulfilled its obligation, but has seduced such terror and created a territory that is today the most insecure, not only in Europe but also in the world. Minister Batic often distracts not only the people's MPs, but all the citizens of Serbia with a story that he sued Javier Solana and then made out with him. He says that until the elections in Kosovo, they will be arrested and taken to The Hague, Haradinaj and Cek, while his representatives, members of the Democratic Party of Serbia, are sitting with the same Shiptars and making a new Shiptar state in Serbia's territory. This proposal for a decision by the Serbian Radical Party does not accept and reiterate that the proposal for a decision to abolish the PIV should be restored to completion and personal changes made, and all institutions, the PIV and the Yugoslav Committee should be renewed and such institutions should be doubled, all in order to survive and return Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19276	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, the respected presidency, the discussion at today's session shows that the Serbian Unity Party was right when it repeatedly insisted that the Kosovo and Metohija issue be put on the agenda of this assembly. Apart from the declaration we adopted on 31 May last year, this item was not put on the agenda, and that declaration itself contains much, which could have brought improvement to our people in Kosovo and Metohija. However, even in such a mild form, and I will remind you that because of such a mild form, we have not voted in favour of this declaration, and this is not applicable. When it comes to the proposal we have on the agenda, we from the Serbian Unity Party have several principled remarks. First of all, these are formal-legal objections. The decision says it ceases to be a decision on the education of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. We believe, formally-legislatively, that it does not cease to apply to the decision on the education of this provisional organ, but rather the functions of that organ, i.e. the organ is shut down, and I think it should be called the right name. The second point is said to cease to apply acts that have been brought by the Interim Executive Council, and even in the explanation there are no lists of acts, so a large gap remains, and it seems to me that such a serious topic requires even a more correct explanation. As for the discharge of Zoran Angelkovic from the post of President of the Interim Extraordinary Council, it was quite correct, not to say that it was gentlemanly to invite this gentleman to even orally file a report and say what he was doing. I don't think that would hurt at all and wouldn't mind making this decision. As far as points 4, 5 and 6 are concerned, everything has already been realized, so I'm not repeating what it says. It is only a finding of the existing situation, that we have employees who pass over to other authorities, the funds are transferred to the Executive Council, or to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The most absurd is point 7, which says the decision takes effect on the eighth day of the day of publication, and we know very well that it came into effect two years ago. In explaining the reasons for making this decision, and I have already said that it is very gross, but it is particularly annoying and particularly incorrect to point 3. to explain the reasons for the decision being made, which is that the elections for the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly were held on 17 November 2001, which included voters of Serbian and other non-Albanian nationalities, where Serbs are called nationalities, so that soon this body will be constitutionalized, and we are actually the one who made the big mistake by dating Serbs in the elections now here and confirmed it. I think this was quite excessive and completely irritated by the Serb people living downstairs who want to return to Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian Unity Party sees many issues being raised, which citizens ask on a daily basis. The first and main question is what has the new government done to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija? We believe that the answer to this question could be very easily given that a report has been submitted, as promised, to the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, which is required to regularly submit a report on its work, and so far we have not even had this kind of reasoning from this Coordination Centre. Another question arises, as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia exercise sovereignty in Cosmet, because according to Resolution 1244, Cosmet is said to be part of Yugoslavia. However, we do not have an answer to what the official authorities of the state are doing and what behaviour, which they are doing right now, accomplishing this sovereignty. The question also arises whether the current government is ready to at least promise, if not to guarantee that Serbs in Cosmet will succeed in exercising their rights, and these are not some right that bounces from any norms, but are rights guaranteed by international regulations, international conventions on human rights, and we are already talking about minority rights, etc. Speaking of the West and mentioning the great powers, it is obvious that these great powers of the West are not clear our speech when we talk about the cradle of Serbia, when we talk about the past, when we talk about history, and once again I try to get them back on the subject that is more understandable to them and in that way of speech that is more understandable to them. The question is, what about the natural resources that are the property of this country, the ownership of all of us, the citizens of Serbia, which are currently in Kosovo and Metohija under occupation and over which absolutely no form of government can be implemented; even the form of property guaranteed by all international norms and down there does not apply, because how someone will exercise this right, the right of ownership of certain immovable properties, of forests, of other good ones. What about the economic potential, which we know very well that this country created, that all these potentials were created by the money of all of us, and not just the money of Shipara from Kosovo, because that's how it turns out, because they have all that left. So that's one very serious question that we have to insist on at all times. Also, great energy potentials are known in Cosmet, and they should be taken care of, to ask who collects taxes, where the money goes, etc. I think that this people and especially us MPs in the Serbian Parliament have the right to get answers to these questions. The government is obliged to the Serbian people to address several basic issues: the issue of displaced, kidnapped, as well as the one I have already mentioned, which is the property issue, the property issue. I don't think this is about whether we are for the existence of a single body that hasn't existed for two years, but it's about whether this state wants to retain continuity, not personal continuity, not continuity of the previous government, but the continuity of the desire for Cosmet to remain in the membership of Serbia and Yugoslavia. If that is the case, and we of the Serbian Unity Party have thus understood it, so it is our desire to preserve the continuity of this intention to keep Serbia in its composition, we will not vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19278	The People's MP Dragan Lazic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19279	Dear Presidency, I join Mr. Obradovic with great regret that Mr. Zoran Angelkovic is not present today. After all, Kosovo's temporary executive performance has been promoted in this hall and it is quite understandable that the president of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo, which is still present for a few more minutes, is there, if for no other reason to give some answers to the quite direct questions that have been raised here. Well, back to basics. It is obvious that many have come from the fact that in Kosovo and Metohija, they have based on some of their own personal frustrations, that they have even based on some doses of animosity on certain institutions. One thing is certain - the problem of Kosovo and Metohija will not be resolved overnight, will not be resolved by one institution, in many ways depends on the international factor, and this time I do not really agree with Mr Trajkovic, who very often knew that in his public appearances he demonstrated his belief that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija should take matters into his own hands. Be safe, and the Albanians would take matters into their own hands and what it would look like. In fact, Albanians also respect the international community, i.e. KFOR forces, as a kind of technical service, and they would do well to have these forces at the administrative border towards Serbia, and to solve and regulate relations in Kosovo as they imagine. If that were the case, they would have done the secession by now and probably have the function of some ministries that do not now, which are the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the foreign ministry, all in the hands of the international community's high representative, or the High Secretary-General of the United Nations, in this case, Mr Steiner. So, in many ways, I can't agree with the claim that you should work hasty. It is true that many things have not been done, but what has been left in this government's mortgage. We cannot accept how the international community works, but it is a fact that after 9/11, everything is somehow different and likely that the international community is now making forced moves, that it cannot solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija as outlined. I said -- the problem of Kosovo and Metohija cannot be solved overnight. This best shows the case of Cyprus, which has been going on for 28 years, and there is some Turkish Cypriot northern republic, there is the rest of Cyprus, and now, these days, an interesting thing is happening, one position, that Cyprus has requested accession to the European Union, but for God's sake, they cannot be accepted but only unique. That is why the talks of both sides, both the Turkish and Greek communities in Cyprus, have started to reach a common agreement so that the country can get interference with the international community. I expect, about, that in due course, the same will happen with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because if anything is recognizable these days, these are the words of Mr Steiner and Mr John Menzis, as high representative, or head of the US office in Pristina, which explicitly indicate that Albanians cannot go to Europe without Serbs. Indirectly - Albanians can only be a member of this European family in the event that they agree with Serbs, in the event of the survival of the common state, and as it will be regulated, it will best show time; and it simply points out that the problem needs to be addressed step by step, not hasty, which causes, in any case, anxiety and the Albanians themselves. I'm saying this all for one simple reason, which is why we're going to have to imagine how we're going to solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. A moment ago, Mr Nikolic mentioned the Irish problem in his presentation. It is true that the problem lasts more than 200 years, when Protestants were taken away by parliament in Ireland, it is true that it has been going on for a long time, but it is also true that the Irish have since the time of the Medston government formed an Irish issue ministry that exists to this day. And today's government in London has its own Minister for the Irish Question. I kind of connected it all for the simple reason -- we can and should be looking for a chance to form one ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. For now, we are somehow cramped, both spatially and Resolution 1244, so we cannot resolve the status, that is, the relationship between Serbia-Montenegro, and when it is resolved, whether this ministry will exist within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or within the Republic of Serbia, which is otherwise natural, it should simply be achieved by a certain kind of agreement. We have simply come to a galamatic position when at the same time they perform a function and temporarily execute a larger Kosovo and the Yugoslav Liaison Committee with Kosovo and Metohija. But unfortunately, it was changed in the name of the institution's original name -- the Yugoslav Committee for Relations with UNMIK -- at the time of Mr Vukic's ambassadorship. If that's the case, then why did it occur to someone to change their name in the first place? The Co-ordination Centre was later formed by the federal and republican governments. So what is the responsibility of this institution - the Coordination Centre, both the Federal and the Republic Government? The question is whether this coordination centre will be able to do whatever it is intended to do, whether it is at all responsible and to whom it is responsible. You know, it's kind of in the Serbian psychology that it's mostly all transferred to someone else. If it's the Republic government's fault, she'll say it's the federal administration's fault and vice versa. That is why I insist, and I am sorry that, although he has been called on this occasion, Prime Minister Djindjic or anyone from the Republic government is not present, because I will repeat, one such institution such as the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija should be well considered. You will admit, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is not the problem of the generation itself. I've just cited examples of why it's not like that. It's a problem that will extend through several future generations, and therefore, I repeat again, we need to seriously consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19280	The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić, and after it Jovan Deretic. What's your emergency? (He speaks to the Messenger Seselj. ) You were in order behind Hope Kolundzija, and before MP Vuk Antonijevic. You weren't in the O.R. when you were called. The word already comes from the MP Ljubisa Maravić. You have a replica? I'm sorry. Replication of MP Dragan Lazic, MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19281	Mr. Lazic did not fully understand everything I was saying about this matter or deliberately distorts the facts, but let it be his problem. My position on the participation of Kosovo-Metochy Serbs in resolving Kosovo's crisis is clear. We do not accept that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved without the Kosovo-Metohija Serbs, and we also believe that this issue cannot be resolved without our state. But we can't even be excluded from that policy and that's clear. I speak here from the position of a man who lives downstairs and from the position of a people who are freaked out, scared, left behind and looking for an answer to his own position. I have to say, there's no answer to that for now. But I'm clear on the whole situation, and I'm going to say it openly here, that I'm no longer going back to this pay phone, which is crucial, what's controversial: it's controversial that we tell the openings to the people what it's all about. I think in their explanation, and also in the presentation of Mrs. Kolundji, they were the most honest, openly told what it was about. Constitutional frameworks finally broke all institutional ties between Serbia and Yugoslavia, on the one hand, both Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. Kosovo-Methohija Serbs, on the other. There is no longer a chance for parallel institutions, especially after the elections. It must be told to the people openly. What's the matter? It is a dispute that those who have been to such a solution are now trying to show that there is still a chance of keeping some institutions. That's where we disagree, and nowhere else. Therefore, I want because of that people who are down there openly to say where the processes around Kosovo and Metohija are going, and not to give one false hope to that people who are waiting for state institutions, and there is no voice or trace of them, nor have any chance of coming down. The only thing that, according to the agreement and after the constitutional framework, when we adopted the President of the Republic of Kosovo, when we accepted the Government of Kosovo, when we accepted the Kosovo Protection Corps, is the following: that our country, through the Coordination Centre, is discussing some strategic issues, and everything else is in the institutions of the Kosovo system, not Kosovo and Metohija. That is what it is and we should say openly, not that the people of Mitrovica are waiting for our authority to give it to the Serb municipality, and we have signed the exact opposite of that; the people in Strpce are waiting for the Serb municipality, and we have signed the exact opposite of that. That's why we had a proposal to agree here, to adopt a recommendation, and to set up a UNMIK coordination centre to create a administration for Kosovo-Meto-Serbs in areas where most are, as a transitional variant, so that the people can endure, and to return to the beginning, to balance the burden of all that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija need to endure so that they can wait for a solution to the problem. Folks, I have to say, in one general fog it expects Serbia, and at the same time Serbia and our government are taking part in the creation of Kosovo institutions, because we are now part of that government, because the "Return" Coalition, which represents the Serbs, is part of the government of Kosovo and Metohija. That's the point of the problem. If we open it to the people, that he doesn't hope, that he has no false hope, then I'm sure the next move is to go and face the people. To remind you of the campaign in pre-election - elections in Kosovo and Metohija, for the Kosovo Assembly: the return of the institutions of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia. That's when I said, and I'm saying now, it's been finally abolishing ties between the institutions of Serbia and Yugoslavia with Kosovo. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19282	If it is an objection to your right to speak for 28 minutes, you will get the word, unless the joint decision violates the Rules of Procedure, and you are immediately told that only because you entered the congregation hall. Your right to 28 minutes is undeniable. (Vojislav Seselj: I am entitled now to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19283	Mrs. Comic, if you hadn't denied me my right, I wouldn't have applied for the Rules of Procedure. But you just said I had no right, now you're saying my right is undeniable. I'd just like to draw your attention so you can't act like one. What does that mean, when you violated the Rules of Procedure -- just before, when you told me I had no right or now, when you told me my right was indisputable. You must have broken it once, and I wanted to let you know, and I'm going to wait patiently for you to give me your word and use those 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19284	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is both cases. For the first reason, the precedent works because other MPs who did not come and were present at the time of the session were given the word and then their order was determined after their arrival. So, I just asked you that, and I told you when you were read in order, don't dispute at that time your right to receive a word after the order of registered MPs has ended, unless you want me to ask them to release you immediately. (Vojislav Seselj: I didn't ask right away, I just answered the word. I've seen you, but it's good to hear from you. I don't see any reason to be impatient if we have a consensus that this is an important topic. The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him is the Messenger Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19285	The respected families of kidnapped and missing persons from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, a decision on the formation of the Kosovo and Metohija Regional Executive Council was made at the moment of the continued functioning of Albanian terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, which, in addition to the difficult economic situation caused by unfairly introduced sanctions to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, led to a significant number of populations in Kosovo and Metohija's territory being disabled by regular supply and privatisation, but also by supplying basic life supplies. Interrupted communications by the so-called The KLA created in certain parts of Kosovo and Metohija an extremely difficult situation, which began to turn into a humanitarian disaster. In order to take a more concrete and complex view of the work of the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija in the past period, it should be reminded of the circumstances in which we were at the time of the decision. The very composition of the PIV of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija was a unique example in the world, that, without exception, representatives of all national communities living in the area were representatives of Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Gorans, Roma, Muslims, Egyptians and others in one multiethnic environment, without exception. The very fact that such an approach was made in selecting PIV members was the drive to take the first step towards calming tensions in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Thus, the leadership of the Republic of Serbia has clearly shown its commitment, will and willingness to co-operate and dialogue, as well as the practical realization of wishes and intentions for this body to be accepted by all national communities. The following forward definitions, Kosovo's PIV and Metohija were the other authorities of all peoples of the province, and their human, impartial and toleranceal attitudes and initiatives contributed to the more tolerance of the lives of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. The start of PIV of Kosovo and Metohija was very difficult, given the general political atmosphere in the province, burdened, as I have already said, by numerous problems and conflicts, including those most difficult with terrorists, so-called. The KLA, which daily carried the lives of all citizens of the province, regardless of nationality, lives of members of the Yugoslav Army and police. In the past, the lives of PIV members Jafer Djuka from Peći and Cerim Ismaili from the village of Godance, the municipality of Štimlja, who was beastly killed by members of the so-called "Stimlje". The KLA in front of its family members, in the most virulent way, and this, unfortunately, last year in the presence of UNMIK and KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija, shows again unequivocally that so-called. The KLA is not disarmed, but only turned into a Kosovo Protection Corps. Also, a criminal terrorist act was committed on PIV member Ibra Vait, who remained unharmed thanks only to luck. Most PIV workers lost their entire assets in Kosovo and Metohija as a result of the so-called operation. The KLA, and aware of the fact that they are risking their lives not only in their work, but also in the lives of their loved ones, confronting a great tribulation called terrorism. After the UNMIK and KFOR mission arrived, many of them lost, as I said, everything they had. I have photos (shows them), this is the house of Cerima Abazia, which is also located next to her house which is burned to the ground. This is a house (shown) of a member of the Regional Executive Council of Ratko Jocic from Vučitrn, which also destroyed the entire property. The PIV of Kosovo and Metohija, in order to work more efficiently, has formed secretariats and commissions, with specific competences and intention to contribute to their ideas, initiatives and practical work the basic idea of equality, equality and common life in Kosovo and Metohija. In the beginning of the NATO aggression, PIV worked in very difficult conditions, given the difficult situation and the state of all state and other bodies, so that daily PIV members actively followed in all areas of life what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. The main feature of all PIV members and PIV workers was to assist all citizens, regardless of national and religious membership, mobility or active presence in the entire area of Kosovo and Metojija. During that period, a particular activity focused on the return of Albanian living, fearing NATO bombing and pressure so-called. The KLA, leaving its hearth. For example, only on the territory of the municipality of Podujevo was returned to its houses of over 30,000 Albanians, and in Glogovec more than 15,000, in Kacanik, Štimlj, Malishevo and in other areas, which were given personal and property security upon return, as well as food and medicine assistance. At the end of NATO's aggression, and after the withdrawal of the Yugoslav and police armies, the activities of the District Executive Council were focused on adapting work to the conditions in which we were found. Contact with displaced persons has been established, unfortunately over 250,000, as well as providing assistance to the endangered non-Albanian population remaining in Kosovo and Metohija. Seeking answers from UNMIK's administration on the fate of 1,300 kidnapped Serbs and Montenegrins in the southern Serbian province, UNMIK's efforts to stand in the way of the evil of Cypriot terrorists who daily, and today, kill Serbs in Cosmet, have contributed greatly to this by the South-Slovenian Committee, the Regional Executive Council and the Centre for Peace and Tolerance, who were in the function of staying and survival of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian living. In addition to the twenty-four-hour, day-to-night, duty and assistance of the most vulnerable residents of Cosmet, the Regional Executive Council of the Centre for Peace and Tolerance issued this publication (shows) "Days of terror in the presence of the international UN forces". This book is intended for all those who have suffered in the desire to survive and remain in their hearths and live in peace and tolerance. As some colleagues earn that I should not read, I will only read one sentence, that this earthquake-chronology of terror and crime in Kosovo and Metohija, committed over the Serb people by separatist-terrorist gangs during the time of UNMIK and KFOR's arrival. This book you see, unfortunately, is the only testimony, the only document on the death of Serbs in Cosmet, published by this country, next to the White Paper that speaks of NATO aggression. And you see, the release of this book has just funded the PIV, which you want to lift. In view of all of this above, I can freely establish the justification for the formation of PIV at a given time, extremely difficult for our country and people, and I believe that everyone in the report submitted can be convinced of the justification and quality of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19286	The People's Messenger Jovan Deretic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreten Mitrovica. There's still four minutes left for the SS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19287	Thank you. The esteemed presidency, respected colleagues, respected listeners, here at last here at the small door came some debate on Kosovo and Metohija although this institution did not put it on the agenda. It also put the last institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda. Says the government's representative, so that institution doesn't work anymore. Yeah, it doesn't work. What did this government do to enable it to function? What did this government do for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Did the release of the Cypriot terrorists gain reciprocity, did at least one man of the kidnapped people from Kosovo and Metohija get released? We've got representatives of those unfortunates here. They're listening to us here. What this government has done to help these unhappy refugees, who fuck around here in Serbia, in Belgrade and who knows where. This is where we voted to end the aid to the victims of aggression. I was the only speaker against ending that help. You left them on the street, on the street, and now you're removing those latest traces of Serbian statehood in that territory. What have you gentlemen done to return the institutions of the Serbian state to Kosovo and Metohija? Have you achieved the application of Resolution 1244? You say you can't. Well, surely you can't, when no one's taking care of you outside, no one's taking you seriously, how are we going to take you here seriously? You can't talk to anyone, no one's seeing you, no one's cutting you down. Call the election and get the hell out of here. What did you do with those resolutions we voted here, not to recognise the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hackerup. You've persuaded the people to go to Kobajagi on their way back. What a miserable return when nothing is provided. You persuaded the people to give legitimacy to the new Albanian state in Serbia's territory. This is the second one, after the one that was formed in 1913. Now you can't admit, you can't tell the people that you betrayed Kosovo and Metohija, you handed it over to some so-called. The international community, which is not an international community, but a NATO pact of 19 countries. You pierce our ears with your European stories, laws, monets and wonders. Why didn't you tell your European friends to pull troops from Serbian territory? When Serbian territory will be free, then let us unite in this Europe, where you lead us. You're taking us nowhere and nowhere, because you're incompetent and you better call that election and go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19288	The People's Messenger Sreten Mitrovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19289	Dear representatives of the Association of Kidnapped and Displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today is on the agenda to abolish another Serbian institution in Kosovo and Metohija. After the abolition of the Yugoslav Committee, we also abolish the last institution - PIV. Are we abolishing it because our Secretary General, Zoran Angelkovic, is at the head of the institution or is it abolished to free you from Kosovo and Metohija? We socialists are proud that our secretary general, Zoran Angelkovic, was at the head of the PIV. I will return to PIV later, but I will present some findings that have been made here by some MPs, who do not even know where Kosovo and Metohija are on the map, and they have presented who and how they sold Kosovo and Metohija. We all know that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija has long been brought here, but I will be back in time since I was in politics since 1992. We all know that in 1992, the first multi-party elections that Albanians were free to go out, like everyone else, were scheduled to seek their rights in the institutions of the Serbia-Yugoslav state and the laws of the state. However, under the leadership of their separatist leaders, their goal was only to separate Kosovo from Serbia and Yugoslavia, which we can listen to these days at the trial of our president, who is scramblingly fighting for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija. You can laugh, but come to Kosovo, listen to that people, there what they think. Albanian leaders showed at the trial what they were fighting for and what their goal was -- independent Kosovo and the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. In 1997 and 1998, Members of Parliament, when he escalated Albanian separatism, when civil disobedience did not contribute to what Albanian leaders were seeking, Albanian terrorists began to apply the most disgusting act against the Serbian police and all that was against Albanian interests. That is why we are witnessing everything that has happened, many people have been kidnapped, especially Serbs, who have been killed, as have those Albanians who have been on the side of state institutions. During Albanian terror and during the UN, which has reached the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, to create peace, according to constitutional frameworks, and to ensure life for all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, a PIV was formed. What PIV was doing is in a report you don't want to talk about. But I'll say it, gentlemen, because I've been there every day and attended all these events. During the bombing, I can show you pictures, where our president was and what he was doing with NATO representatives: he showed them where they were and what these villains were bombarding, who came to show us democracy. The emissary shows pictures. But I can tell you here that you're digging both your legs and your hands so that you don't let these Democrats come out of the space of Kosovo and Metohija, because with my family I experience it every day. Let me tell you that I have two sons and a wife, and my mother died five or six months ago, no moment did they leave the house on the road of Pristina-Skoplje, five kilometers from the centre of Pristina. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to go back to what PIV was doing - during the bombing, we opened nine Albanian bakers in Pristina, to allow Albanians to buy bread, so as not to create lines for state bakers, where they mainly bought bread. I'm only talking about the city of Pristina, where I worked as vice president of the City Assembly, and if you don't believe us, we can prove all that. After NATO bombing, the PIV tried to work to establish peace and stop the eviction of the Serb population from Kosovo and Metohija. Well, for the sake of time, I've got some things to do and I've got to skip. ) Through the Centre for Peace and Tolerance (this is what the Vice-President of the Assembly gave) 20 young people risked their lives, together with the Secretary-General; the Centre for Peace and Tolerance was formed, and the first book showed all the victims of Kosovo and Metohija, who were killed by Albanian terrorists, and later, under the leadership of so-called "Such". The peace forces. The PIV opened bakeries in Zubino Potok, in Dobrin, Shilov, Partesh, Strpc, Gorazdevec, if you know where these places are. PIV, headed by Zoran Angelkovic, opened a radio station that is still heard in Gracanica, Brezovica and northern Mitrovica. Let's not talk about how much humanitarian aid is distributed during the bombing, especially to Albanians. Personally in Sajkovic, where there were about 50,000 Albanians, I handed over 100,000 tonnes of flour and food, and food was carried to Glogovac, food was carried to all Albanian centres, where the Albanians remained, where they did not escape from NATO bombing. So, ladies and gentlemen, PIV worked both during the bombing, and after the bombing, along with the remaining Serbs, who remained in Kosovo and Metohija, until the moment you came to power. Tell me what you've done since October 5th, since you came to power? What you're doing, you're removing the last Serbian institution today, and we know what we adopted here at the Assembly, we know what Kouchner was doing, what Hekerup was doing, and Steiner had the first test in Lipian. This is Steiner's first test -- how he's going to react to this murder in Lipian. It's not murder for Serbs, it's murder for Steiner, let's see how he reacts to all this and how Albanian terrorists will continue to behave. Gentlemen, all this stuff I said, I can freely say it's true and I'm going to Pristina tomorrow. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19290	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19291	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, the Republika Srpska Assembly is today discussing a decision proposing to abolish Kosovo's AP and Metohija PIV. It's a reason to say something more about why PIV is even educated and what was the subject of this council's work. In September 1998, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia educated Kosovo and Metohija PIV. At the same session, Zoran Angelkovic, a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, was appointed president of the council, who later appointed 16 members. A decision on the formation of PIV was made at a time of sharp, disrupted international relations in the province. It is time to support, when the degree of self-insulation of Albanians from social and political life in Serbia reached culmination. National exclusion has marked overall relations, and an open requirement for Kosovo to gain the status of the republic has reached its peak. Civil disobedience, demolition demonstrations and illegal enemy work have reached such conditions that almost daily terrorist attacks against Serbs, as well as Albanians and members of other national communities, which were defined for living together. In such an environment, PIV began its work and operation, with the task of representing a temporary body, which would provide conditions for the normal lives of all citizens, for the functioning of vital services and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and conditions for selecting the necessary authorities in the province. Therefore, the composition of the PIV, appointed by the president of the council, was also an obvious step to contribute to the calming of tension and demonstrate a clear commitment to dialogue, with full tolerance and security of conditions for all citizens living in the province. Representatives of nearly all national communities, both Albanians and Serbs, and Turks and Roma, and Gorans and Egyptians and Muslims joined the group. This multiethnic component was retained the overall function of this organ, which in its overall operation sought to efficiencies the need for equality, equality and common life. In line with this need, secretariats, commissions, as well as other bodies and forms of action were also educated. The truth is, I'm going to remind you of some facts about the operation and work that's bigger. Given the difficult situation due to cut-off communications in a significant part of the province and the difficulties in providing the population, due to the actions of Albanian terrorists, the humanitarian affairs Secretariat, which immediately initiated the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid to the endangered population, has been set up as a priority, directing the resources available for this purpose. In this function were other secretariats who worked together along the lines leading to the resolution of the crisis in the province by political means and with respect to standards and norms that would enable equal implementation of national and civil rights. This has also been confirmed through the work of the Secretariat for Local Self-Government, Proposing and implementing measures to make the selection of local self-government authorities as soon as possible, in which all members of the larger and representatives of the international community have been engaged. To this end, a special body has also been formed to monitor the work of local security, which later recruited local police, particularly in Albanian communities, to strengthen the confidence of citizens of this nationality in the country and the rule of law in general. Step by step with these measures that have yielded concrete results because local security has been formed in Peća, Đakovica, Decani, Kiev, Klini, Kacanik, but also in other areas, contacts with numerous international and domestic humanitarian organisations and Red Cross organisations have been made in order to provide the necessary assistance to Kosovo and Metohija populations. For this purpose, budgets aimed at humanitarian needs have been employed and needed to supply the population, but also to obtain equipment for the greater volume of the readouts that have been reported in Albanian, Serbian and Turkish. To remind me, the national communities of Albanians, Turks and Roma had their regular, daily information emissions, and the Albanian national community and on Belgrade TV for the entire country. Also, those national communities had their own lists, magazines, and periodic publications in their languages. The state of information of the Albanian national community also suggests that there were more than 150 newspapers and magazines published in the languages of national minorities at the time, and that there were as many as 58 daily, weekly and periodic publications in Albanian. All these magazines and papers were edited by members of the Albanian national community. Despite this state of information in the languages of national minorities, in particular Albanian, additional information efforts have been made. In addition to numerous contacts, round tables, publications, a special TV station in Albanian was opened in Pristina called "AS". Both before the NATO Alliance bombing and during the bombing, as well as since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival at Cosmet, significant aid actions have been taken, both in order to supply basic life supplies and drugs, energy, providing the necessary repromation, seed goods, artificial fertilizer, providing conditions for school students, especially in the environments where Serbs, due to the activities of Albanian terrorists, were at risk. PIV paid particular attention to the health care of the population, in the conditions of lack of drugs and sanitary material, resulting from the long-standing economic sanctions our country has been exposed to. This segment of PIV's work was also particularly significant due to the fact that a large percentage of health workers in the province belonged to the Albanian national community, as well as close to 80% of patients. The outstanding efforts of the PIV, as well as the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, have provided normal conditions for providing health care to all people of the province, regardless of nationality, which has been particularly evident in terms of war. After the arrival of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija, PIV, president and part of members work in Pristina, often risking their lives with their presence, activities and contacts; a significant contribution has been made to creating conditions for the survival and survival of the Serbian and other non-Albanian population in the province. To this end, numerous contacts with citizens have been made and concrete support and various kinds of assistance have been given to them in order to remain on the centuries-long hearth and in contact with the United Nations mission and KFOR troops, it is pointed out that the Security Council Resolution 1244 and the tragic consequences that the international community has had, above all, to the position of Serbs and other non-Albanian communities in the province. The fact that members of the Council were appointed in its formation, continuously working together with the participation of members of all the nationalities living in Cosmet, bothered Albanian terrorists, so it should be reminded that unfortunately two members of the council, Jafer Djuka and Cerim Ismaili, were killed. For these reasons, but also for the need for senior members to continue to operate among displaced persons, who were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija over 350,000, after KFOR and UNMIK arrived, checkpoints with temporary seats in Brzec and Vranje were also formed. The involvement of senior members has contributed to the achievement of a number of other activities, especially to improving the conditions of life of Serbs who are surrounded by Albanian separatists with constant threats. It is about helping build and activate mines of production capacity, building mini farms, bakers, rebuilding broken houses, both in Strpc and in Kosovo Pomoravlje, Orahovac, Gorazdevac, as well as in the central and northern parts of Kosovo. A particularly significant role this larger has played in organising a network of school institutions in the region and providing conditions for regular teaching in primary and secondary schools. After the UNMIK mission and KFOR units arrived, the temporary execution of all its bodies, and thus the overall activity, were faced with the functioning of UNMIK and KFOR, whose goal is not only to prevent PIV from carrying out its regular activities, but also to directly undo all that is good, and what PIV did in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and hence both the state of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Fellow MPs, in order to address the problems and other problems, temporarily the Kosovo Autonomous Region and Metohija have had successful co-operation with the Yugoslav Co-operation Committee, with the United Nations Mission in Kosovo, as well as with the Serbian National Assembly and the Directorate for the Development of Kosovo and Metohija. All these are facts that speak of the success of PIV's work and the policy that the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija led at the time, which many want to minimise or deny, which is simply not possible. What I was saying about the work of PIV is particularly important in the process that is being led before the court in The Hague against the SPS President Slobodan Milosevic, where he wants to change the picture of real events in Kosovo and Metohija, and thus transforms history. We Socialists are against the removal of PIV and not only because PIV justified the reasons for its existence, but also because the decision on the termination of its work stems from the elections held in November 2001, against which we Socialists were, because these elections not only legalised violence and terror conducted by Albanian terrorists under the auspices of UNMIK and KFOR, legalised the persecution of more than 350,000 Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma, Gorans and others, but also opened the way to create another Albanian state in the Balkans. With the help of the so-called international community, i.e. those countries that have committed aggression against Serbia and Yugoslavia, by calling for elections, the current power, and federal and republican, have given support to the process. Therefore, PIV should remain for state reasons, with a personal composition to establish the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are not a matter of one man, one party or one political option, but of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the matter of all those people who want this issue resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19292	The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic has the word, and after him, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19293	Ladies and gentlemen, the message that came from Socialist Party of Serbia MP Zarko Obradovic is clear: we Socialists believe it is of high state interest to keep the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in shape and presence of the state of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija's territory through the Interim Executive Council. First, we consider this because, if we had decided to stop functioning temporarily with the above-mentioned reason, because the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly was elected under the Hekerup Constitution, we would have indirectly recognised everything that was happening in Kosovo and Metohija and that this assembly had never recognised, and, in particular, opposed it, and unanimously, to remind you, in May of the first declaration, and then to the resolution, where we clearly said that we knew that we were reading Resolution 1244. Some speakers at this pay phone seem to have trouble reading. The resolution is not about Kosovo and Metohija Resolution 1244 being a shameful solution for the former government, but rather a shameful solution for the United Nations that brought the resolution, but they do not apply the resolution as it says. For those who are objecting to Resolution 1244, and it is certainly the most qualitative argument for the negotiations on the international plan for this country, because one single sentence should be said -- respected gentlemen in the United Nations, in the Security Council, you, the great powers, have brought that resolution. The Serbian people and citizens of Serbia are asking nothing more than to apply it, because that resolution goes to the first member of the 9th, who says it is the obligation of the United Nations to provide public order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija territory, and then only to ensure the return of the refugee and exiled citizens of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija. Only after that Article 9 goes to Article 10, which speaks of elections. And the child in the first basic knows that the first must be realized by Article 9, and then by Article 10. Why has our international policy run to forget Article 9, and even to perform the patriarch Paul to seek participation in the elections, it is embarrassing to many who have advocated it. We, if we would make a decision to suspend, with this reason, a temporary executive, because Kosovo and Metohija have won their Assembly, we, as the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are disowning Kosovo and the Metohija of dear ladies and gentlemen. That is why it is a couple of exeleans of the interest of Serbian citizens to make a decision that the Temporarily greater lives with all the tasks that have been set for him, through the Finance Secretariat, science, education, health care, humanitarian and social issues, and you mostly bring whatever kind of personnel solutions you want, we will support, because the lives of the Interim Executive Council first in the territory where Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija mean the life of the Republic of Serbia in those parts of Kosovo and Metohija. For those who had more emotional charge for this pay phone, either from left or right, information goes, my dear lady: the eviction from Kosovo and Metohija began in 1968. Neither Slobodan Milosevic nor the Socialist Party of Serbia existed at the time on a political scene. It is known that in 1968 it began because one of the Serbs placed Alexander Rankovic, put him away, and then the better functioning of terrorists and Shiparian secessionists in Kosovo and Metohija began. For those of you who have other emotional charges, only the fact that even one Shiptar who shot a Serb in 1987 said he shot him because he thought it was a rabbit. Such action following the replacement of Aleksandar Rankovic made the percentage of Serbian living from 24% in 1961 to 18.5% in 1971 and 13.2% in 1981. So much for history. As far as this item of the agenda is concerned, our proposal is not to make a decision on the suspension of the Interim Executive Council. On the contrary, to strengthen the Interim Executive Council, that, regardless of the political objectives of any political group in this assembly, we bring a consensus on the human resources of this interim executive council and give it the task of using the government of Serbia's government's budget, to health care where Serbs and all those who recognise Serbia are working in office and in the methodology of Serbia's health organisation, education as an education in the rest of Serbia, pensions, social security, anything that goes right down to Kosovo and Metohija, that citizens of Serbian and other nationalities who recognise Serbia as their own state know that and feel it. It is clear that in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the image of UNMIK and KFOR there are members of those countries who are now an uncircumcised force in the world, but it is clear that our style here, the willingness to negotiate, our unique performance, and not the subjective, traitorous, can help to make Kosovo and Metohiedale's territory a better life and create the preconditions that, at the time, this Security Council realizes Resolution 1244 in general. If nothing else, then precisely because of Jafer Djuka from Peći and because of Ismeili, an Albanian who lived and worked within the PIV, eager to serialise a multinational and multi-confessional environment in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19294	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word and a list of registered speakers has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19295	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this so important item of the agenda had to have a much better treatment in the National Assembly than it had. The Republic government had to propose an act to appoint an incomparably more capable representative to represent its political views and explain the act itself than Vladan Batic, justice minister and local self-government did here. Today, a decision is made that is enough to raise your hand and vote, but in one minute, the decision can have very severe negative consequences. The decision is taken without insight into the report on the work of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija. I found out today that this report contains several hundred pages. The main order was to submit a report with the proposal, so that the report could be considered, accepted or not accepted, as the temporary execution of Kosovo and the Metohija authorities of this National Assembly formed temporarily higher on the basis of their constitutional powers. It's pointless to disband this bigger one first, to stop it, not to consider its work so far. You should give a political assessment of that work. It never occurred to anyone. A year and a half since you came to power, it's bigger. Why didn't you think of a year ago to end this temporary circuit executive? Why didn't you do it then? It didn't even occur to you. It didn't bother you just temporarily bigger, but some warrant came on the outside to end it bigger. You know better than I do what a warrant. Vladan Batic, an extremely poor representative of the political views of the government of the Republic of Serbia, said this bigger one could not fulfil any of its powers, so he said he could not enforce the laws and other regulations in Kosovo and Metohija, could not lay down regulations for their execution, could not carry out decisions and general acts, could not possibly exercise any authority to carry out because Kosovo and Metohija are under occupation. But the emigrant governments can't exercise any authority, almost none, but their continuity is maintained. This is not about the occupation of the entire state, not the part of the state, but it is the only institution legally, legitimate, on the Constitution, that remains of that part of the territory, of that autonomous province, which is yet one subject of the political system. It's not a federal unit, but it's a political system subject as long as there's a constitution like this. So it doesn't matter at all that this temporary executive council can't exercise its powers, but the institution can't be abolished. And we've already told you -- change your personnel, take whoever you want from your ranks into that temporarily larger one, we don't care, because he can't exercise jurisdiction, so I can't mess anything up, but let him stay a firm, let him remain an institution. Furthermore, Vladan Batic here says that the temporary executive council spent huge money. That's not true either. He mentions about 26 million dinars here. For the state, it is not a great deal of money if it is noted that Nebojsa Covic had 500 million at his disposal last year, and this year nearly a billion. This is no money, given that you from this year's budget predicted for so-called. NGOs half a billion dinars, 500 million dinars. You will give money to Natashi Kandic, Sonji Biserko, Biljani Kovacevic-Vuco, etc., you will give each of them money; you will give money to the verified agents of foreign intelligence, who work exclusively against the Serb people. That's what you have money for. Half a billion is not much to give for Biserka, Kandićka and the others, and you don't have to keep one institution. You know, maybe you can keep that institution safe for 100 grand. No one has to work professionally, set up an office in the Serbian government. It is a temporary execution of Kosovo and Metohija, determine 100,000 dinars annually, enough to keep the company safe. That's the point. And what you're saying is expensive, you've shown how wasteful you are in some other places, where it is to act against Serbian national interests. There you give your hand and hat, because the foreigners have turned their taps, they have achieved their goal. Furthermore, this is where Vladan Batic spoke of some who had not previously prevented the weapons of Shipara. This is where Vladan Batic even says new minarets have been growing in Kosovo and Metohija for years. None of you looked back on that. What do we have against growing new minarets? Do members of the Islamic religion have the right to raise their worship? They do. Then who does that bother? Do you mind in the Raska area, where there's more concentration of Muslims, what do they raise mosques? Is that what's bothering someone? Did it bother anyone in Serbia? There are no larger nationalists in this country than we are Serbian radicals, but we have never been bothered by these religious objects and why someone would prevent them from being built. He is surprised that earlier authorities did not prevent the construction of minarets in Kosovo and Metohija. You've been listening and keeping your mouth shut. That's what he said this morning. In his pathetic terms, Kosovo is an altar to him. What does that mean? No one knows. Kosovo is Serbia's territory for me, which must be preserved to remain within Serbia. Oh, not some kind of high-priced word that doesn't mean anything. What does that mean? You've tolerated it. Is that hate speech? What's the matter with you, minarets? They don't mind and can't bother, because it's not a creed because of separatism, nor was that separatism in Kosovo tied to religion, because it threatened both Turks, and Gorance, and Muslims and Roma Islamic religion, etc. That's what Vladan Batic told you here this morning, so let's explain what he meant - which bothers him to niche the minarets in Kosovo and Metohija. Then, he says, all the satellite antennas were facing Tirana. Did you swear to democracy? You're not going from house to house to move satellite antennas. I guess it's every man's freedom to set up his satellite antenna. It bothers you that the satellite antenna is facing Tirana. We don't care where the satellite antenna is going to be, if someone doesn't lag their weapons and rise against the state. The fact that he prefers Tirana than Belgrade is his business. It is important that he does not take arms and fight against the state of Serbia. I guess that's the point. You have heard here that Vladan Batic has accused the former government of arming Albanian terrorists, for failing to prevent logistical support for Albanian separatists, preventing the flow of financial resources, uninterrupted border crossings, etc. He says the border isn't guarded. Who's guarding the border of our country? The Yugoslav Army. Who was the Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army? General Momcilo Perisic, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. Who's to blame for the military's failure to perform their role? The current current current vice-president of the Serbian government. Who is to blame that police did not prevent weapons, a huge flow of financial resources to Albanian terrorists and separatists, etc. Who were the police chiefs then? Jovica Stanisic, Vlasimir Djordjevic, Sreten Lukic. They're all DOS now. Someone sprayed himself publicly, such as Sreten Lukic, remains as a general, the highest police official in Serbia. Jovica Stanisic pulls the strings out of the background, but he is the soul of your police operation, and as far as Vlasimir Djordjevic is concerned, we still do not know what fate you have prepared for him and where you hold him reliably, it is about some basements. Whoever's to blame-- whoever's guilty isn't called to account. When we entered the Serbian government, one of the first acts was the replacement of Jovica Stanisic. The second act, under our pressure, is the shift of Momčal Perisic at federal level, as chief of staff. Furthermore, here we have heard the story of the appointment of some Albanians, members of Albanian national minorities, to directoral positions. Well, they're like this, so they're like that. You know, all Albanians who wanted to be loyal to the Republic of Serbia could get nice positions in the state administration, in all state services, in social activities, etc. Politics has always been that it is necessary to attract as many members of the Albanian national minority as possible to be loyal. No Albanian has ever been threatened with eviction here. The request was made only for those who are not citizens to have to move, which have been listed since 1945 under the communist regime brought from Albania to Kosovo and Metohija, to kidnapped Serbian properties. As far as members of national minorities are concerned, politics has been continuously led, any authority that is concerned, full equality and the acquisition of all national minorities to participate in all state, political and social processes, etc. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you were prepared to listen to various similar interpretations. Governmental Batic is being disturbed by the Egyptians. What bothers the Egyptians? There are 7,000 people who are considered members of the Egyptian national minority. They're recognised by the Egyptian government, and I always see them at the Egyptian embassy receptions. They have a place of honor, if they want to be Egyptians, it's their right. It is possible to enter a theoretical debate whether they are really Egyptians or not, so that historians give their own court, so that old documents may be examined, etc., but there are traces of their Egyptian origin, I personally took an interest in it and what would they be in the way of. What's wrong with any national minority, regardless of their numbers? And here Vladan Batic took advantage of the opportunity, since there are no arguments, to speak in my absence, and to me he ran away. How? I waited here to answer Vladan Batic, and he answered the word only when I got out. I had far more important things to do in the Federal Assembly, preventing the Federal Assembly from being put into the protection of mobsters, who kill prominent political and other public figures in our country, and I succeeded. To inform you, the DOS SNP prank failed to vote any new alternative conclusions. You've all fallen apart today in the Federal Assembly. Now, that was my priority, and I knew Batic wouldn't run away from me anywhere, whenever I get back Batic's here, and I'll be able to answer him. Vladan Batic resents Serbian radicals for returning to the Serbian government after leaving the government. It is true that we have returned to the reconstructed government. What was the alternative? We wanted elections. You're not. You asked for authority right away, no choice. We wanted to prevent you from coming to power and we sacrificed ourselves. The people didn't recognize our victim. The people punished us in the elections. Laugh all you want, laugh for all you want, now the people see who you are and who we are. Now it's completely clear to the people. Furthermore, as far as Dusan's code is concerned, the entire nation saw Vladan Batic in the Federal Assembly claiming that Dusan's code was passed in 1330. I go out for a pay phone and I make a joke, I say -- let's let Vladna Batic hit again three times when Dusan's code was passed. And he's quiet. Then he's listed in some books, somewhere he's probably found it in 1349, and he's all happy right now suggesting it's a holiday in this country. Any significant date in history he learns, he can propose for the holiday tomorrow. As for the people he slandered here, he called fascists, it's a shame, these are the people who stood by the Serbian people, and Lepen, Shenhuber, and Žirinovski, and especially Saddam Hussein. Saddam Hussein is an honest, faithful friend of the Serbian people and of the Serbian state, a proven friend. Those who are your friends, these carpet bombs killed Serbian children, Serbian civilians, in Serbia. Since Iraq, we've had nothing but help and support. The Iraqi bombs never went to our land. That I'm a disgrace and a shame; you know, sometimes it's a shame to see what you're like and what I have to be in your society, but I'm kind of putting up with what I'm going to do, because of some higher goals and ideals to put up with and your temporary presence in this number. You won't last long here. Vladan Batic is looking for magazines 25 years ago to make fun of me. You know, when I was 23, I wrote this text. It's not master's work, it's not doctorate, it's written much earlier. It is a lecture from a seminar for educational workers, for teachers of secondary schools in Dubrovnik and Trebinj, a year before publication in the youth magazine "Idea". It's a youth theory magazine called Idea. At the time, I knew I was writing. Is it right from this point of view that I wrote or not, that's another thing now, but I'm not ashamed of any of my lyrics, because I've never done anything in my life that could serve me for shame. I published all these early youth papers in the first volume of my books on 1,000 pages. You had a chance and here to see it, some of you got it on a gift. I'm not ashamed, because I've never been a police detective, I haven't been spying, I haven't sinned about any fate, I haven't put anyone in jail innocent, nobody's lost their job because of me. I'm proud of it. Here, of course, you have to answer some more things that are said like "from the sky to the ribs," because that's all you can talk about. It says here that senior SRS officials are the bonds of the Extraprofit Act. That's not true. No member of the SRS comes under the provisions of that law. Those who got the flats, they got according to the government's rules and they got far fewer apartments than the government's rulebook. And the fact that they're real comfortable apartments, big apartments, that's something else. You haven't broken that rule yet. So you keep that rulebook to yourself. Why don't you stop it? You will convince us of your good intentions to cadukine that rule, so it will not remain available for your furniture. Next, someone here was talking, I can't remember his name, he's related to someone in glass, so I can't get much with that grandmother... (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. That's what you should have told Cedomir Jovanovic and Vladan Batic. I'm responding to what they said and I'm using the time available to the SRS. You raised those questions. No five of my bodyguards have been arrested. Five people were arrested on January 14th. They were released from prison on February 14th and they're all at large, if you haven't arrested them again in the last three hours, because you need them for political reasons. Indeed, they did find some explosives and it was smuggling, but only one of them was a member of the SRS and was fired in September of last year. Here's the evidence for that resignation. The fact that you have no arguments against the SRS and you serve the seditions, the plantings, the falses, the lies, it just shows what you are. Says here Cedomir Jovanovic I'm nervous. I'm never nervous, and now that you're in power, I'm not showing any anxiety. I show inner strength, it's the power of the spirit. When a man truly believes in what he thinks, then that power of the spirit shows. I'm not a junkie like someone else, so he comes out here in a drug-related euphoria, shakes out something he doesn't even think about, and it has nothing to do with the truth. The Master's building has been trying to steal us for a year and a half, even though we've been legally moving in there. The Master's building is a business space, it's under the protection of the state, but the renovation was carried out by the municipality. After the renovation, the SRS moved in. They have been pressuring the judge for months to rule against the law against the damages of Serbian radicals. But it just shows the state of our justice system. You know, it's no problem, you can move us out tomorrow. We can go under the tent, we can go under the umbrellas, but you can't stop us, and you can't stop us from telling the truth and revealing your authority. You don't have enough prison, you can't do anything, you're completely powerless. You're the only ones in the AK's hands, so kill us. And our graves shall fight with you, Chedomir Jovanovic, and our graves. He's talking about a trial here again. He says -- due to abuse of position and organised crime against lawyer Nikola Barovic. First of all, there's no abuse of position, no one. Of course, Nikola Barovic was beaten. There's been a suspicion that I'm an instigator, but they still can't prove it. But a brand-new man was accused of being an perpetrator, who was then in Pogorevec and has 15-20 witnesses that he was in Pogorevec. Find the right executor, so maybe you'll prove that I'm the instigator, but you can't, you've been struggling for a few years with that trial. I am constantly responding, only yesterday, at the request of Dragoljub Micunovic, I did not go to court because I had more important jobs. (Lowers from the O.R.: To the bank. Sometimes I come by the bank, my conscience is quiet, I deal with banks, I keep accounts in domestic banks, I get a little bit left over and abroad, I try to transfer it. I have nothing to hide, nothing to be ashamed of. As far as The Hague is concerned, I'm still offering to go to The Hague. Here, Batic, who last time with Djindjic stopped me from getting a visa, now has to force him to give me a visa and pay me travel expenses, I'm going to The Hague right now. Here, that's a challenge. And a laptop - top one to carry, can do so at the expense of the Serbian government. It's hard without a laptop to go to The Hague. (Vladan Batic: And with a rusty spoon.) Can use a rusty spoon. This is Cedomir Jovanovic denying one matter of truth. The grandfather of Cedomir Jovanovic and the grandfather of Ljubomir Jovanovic, Jovanovic, were born brothers, and their fathers are brothers from uncles. So they're brothers of uncles too. They're the closest relatives. (Kedomir Jovanovic:What's my uncle's name? Here, I'll make you a family pedicure, and that's what I'll do. What, now I remember your uncle's name. I'll find out, too, slowly, I'll bring it all. There are no secrets for me. When I try to get something clean, nothing can stop me. I guess you've seen that before. The fact that Cedomir Jovanovic is referring to the request of the MUP and the district attorney, so immediately informs the public, is also nonsense, because what you submitted in September of the month, you have not yet scheduled me any trial, because you cannot. Dusan Mihajlovic fears facing me in front of any court. Sue me, I never call for immunity, I always go to all the subpoenas. That's what I like most about it. Ten volumes of books from these trials will be published, ten thousand pages, because all these trials show who you are and what you are, the nature of your authority. There's no secrets for me, no problems at all. Come on, now, come on, private lawsuit, public prosecutor, anything. Come on, quick, over, schedule now. Here, the defendant agrees, after a brief procedure. What aren't you supposed to do? You're afraid, it's not a clear conscience. (loud from the O.R.: call an ambulance. You're gonna need an ambulance, I know that. We don't use any energy to deal with DOS. We are investing political energy to expose the true nature of your government. That's the point. We wish to expose you to the end, so that the people may see who you are, what you are. You know, the people in one vote vote vote for one another. We now convince the people never to vote for you again. That's our goal, and that's why we're wasting our energy. We do the greatest good to both the nation and the state. That's the point. Don't you regret our energy. We have energy for other things. You know, you shoot video cameras, you publish, you make up affairs, you make up for the Martian, I hear it's all made up, maybe you can find something real for me. Launch, come on, do something. Why are you so involved? After a little announcement -- here, they were scared of radical arrests, so today at National -- "Nacional prevents arrest." Come on, arrest me now. What are you waiting for? You won't have time after. If you're late, you're done, then I'll start arresting, I won't hesitate. That's only because you insisted on this debate. I'd use the rest of my time to get back to this basic topic, because it's the most important thing. I want to well-intention you, to persuade you, to draw attention to you that it is not wise to abolish the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija as an institution. I repeat the motion, the request, replace all PIV members, but don't cancel the institution. Put your men on. Put Batić on, put Chad Jovanovic on, put anyone on, but keep the company, keep the institution, we'll need it, we'll need the people, the state. Don't give up a lever yourself that can be very useful to us. It's my desire to convince you, but it doesn't seem to be worth persuading you, because you're blinded, you have some external orders that you carry out, so what William Montgomery and his like say here, you do it, and it's the law for you, it's for you the Constitution. Instead of being the Holy Scriptures to Vladna Batic, he considers the order he received as the Holy Scriptures. Here, now a list of my book, it would be good for Vladan Batic to read all my books and find lots of smart things there. There's something to quote. I'm always glad when Vladan Batic quotes my books, except he can't find any arguments against me. That's what's very important in this case, and the more I say, he gets more nervous about the list and the list. Dude, you should've read that before, so you should've been under the covers, so put the ballots on, don't turn the pages, there's one side you're turning, that's no one who likes the book. I haven't turned a page in my life because I love books. Some books should have been read in time. You should have learned in time when Dushan's Lawman was passed. You should have learned the contents of this law, so that you know that Emperor Dushan has confined himself and said: The courts to judge according to this law, and not according to the will of the empire. Furthermore, Emperor Dusan said, if it is contrary to the provisions of the law with the emperor's will, the law is applied contrary to the emperor's will. You, in case Ceda Jovanovic is in college with the law, apply to Chad. When Vladan Batic is in college with the Constitution, then he says, the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures and is not applied, because he is smart, you know, he has knowledge, he has the ability and what he says is the truth. Just because she's been banging and 19 years doesn't mean anything to him, she's been missing for 19 years through history, which means 19 years more or less. You know, when you're 18, it's getting old, Mr. Batic, it's a huge time. It's a huge time. After 18 years, unfortunately, your people will forget, but they will continue to suffer because of the negative consequences, hers, because of your self-government, your willlessness, your unscrupulousness and your inability to solve life's problems, and your willingness to do any harm to the people and the state, if that suits the needs of your parties or the needs of someone outside who asks you to carry out his duties. Mr. Batic, listen up, smart people listen and ignorant people talk. Of course, the ignorant here lead some communication to each other. There's nothing to listen to, smart people don't listen to fools. How so? Now, Vladan Batic says I'm a fool. Maybe I am a fool. Maybe I am a fool. I am not a criminal and a traitor to the Serbian people like Vladan Batic and other DOS-manleys.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19296	Before I give my word to the Republic Minister, on behalf of the National Assembly President Natasa Micic, I must apologize to the invited representatives of the kidnapped and missing from Kosovo because they have earned everything, but have not earned such a debate on this subject. National MP Nada Kolundzija, a replica to the presentation of the National MP Momčal Trajkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19297	I needed to get back to you, because I found out from my stenogram that Mr. Trajkovic misread what I said. So I don't think there's any intention in it, I think there's a need to remove it as a misunderstanding. I made it very clear that Serbia's institutional ties with Kosovo and Metohija were interrupted by Security Council Resolution, the Kumanovski Agreement, and not as Mr Trajkovic quoted me as saying that the ties were broken by constitutional frameworks. I believe Mr. Trajkovic understands the fundamental difference between these two things. It's not just about the time difference and the trail of events, it's about the essence of what was the result of some previous policy. So just in that sense, I really don't think it's malicious, I just need to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19298	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19299	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that today it is a shame to be a National MP. We've often felt that way over the last year, although we've shared that feeling as citizens for the past 10 years. The congregation must be a place for responsible people to speak responsibly. There has been a lot of political irresponsibility in Serbia for the past 10 years. When we look back and look for the causes of this irresponsibility, then we actually come up with a fact that speaks a lot more about us as a society than about individuals who move around us. Today, Mr. Seselj once again confirmed that Serbia was tragic because he had a personality, with the character he promoted once again, was in a position to decide on the fates of us as citizens of that society. All he did here, he introduced himself as a person who couldn't even be responsible for his own actions. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for what they had to listen to. You can't insult me as a politician. I'm sorry people who don't deserve this kind of behavior and don't deserve this kind of conversation. In the past few days, we have witnessed everything, so today I do not feel guilty at all when I say that personally as a politician, not using my position or the function of MPs, I will try not to bring you to justice, but to expose forever that anomaly in our society that allowed you to be a man in a position to speak to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19300	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic, so MP Dragan Markovic-Palma, a second report.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19301	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, explaining the reasons why the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija should be abolished, I cited what its responsibilities are, and the corresponding decision on organisation and mode of work, Official Journal of Kosovo and Metohija, number 29/98. The PIV of Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with its competences under Article 2, no longer implements the laws, decisions and general acts, nor adopts acts to enforce them, shall not adopt acts under its jurisdiction, shall not propose any change in the development of the budget and the final account, shall not propose decisions and general acts, shall not lay down the principles for the internal organisation of the circuit bodies of the administration and shall not lay down or resolve the elders in the circuit bodies, administrations and services, etc. So, the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija exists only on paper and exists where huge financial resources are spent. So the proposal to abolish the PIV of Kosovo and Metohija means the way to equalise the practical and formal situation. Simply, in fact, that executive council no longer exists. There is a Co-ordination Centre of the Federal and Republic Government for Kosovo and Metohija, which performs those tasks that it should and can carry out, since simply this illusion, called PIV, is no longer there anymore. And we don't have to deal with illusions anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, the former regime claimed to have won the NATO Pact, you claimed to have preserved sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. It's not worth dealing with illusions, it's not worth embellishing reality. She's who she is, and she says PIV no longer exists. And that's why it needs to be lifted. I did mention that on mosques nothing minarets, in their own time, but not to discredit the Muslim nation in any way, but out of regrets that, while nothing is mined, they should collapse, and the Serbian sanctity in Kosovo and Metohija disappear. What about our sanctities in Kosovo and Metohija, how many were burned, destroyed, destroyed, gone? Serbian national history is being erased. That's the truth and that's the thing. Ladies and gentlemen, how did the arming of Albanians take place, how did it come to have huge financial resources, how did unseen logistics occur? It was the authorities who allowed it, made it possible for them to hide. I mentioned the Egyptians, not persuasive again, but I want to remind you, Rambouje is near Versailles. After the First World War in Versailles, an important meeting was held, a Versai peace was decided, it was decided, among other things, on the borders of the then Balkan states. And do you know who then represented Serbia -- the greatest minds of the time. In Versailles, 1919, by Slobodan Jovanovic, and so on. So, the greatest minds the Serbian people had then. And who did you send to negotiate in Rambuje? ( Vojislav Seselj, from the place: The greatest minds. You are the greatest mind, but not the Serbian people. It's the only delusion. One more thing, Vojislav Seselj said, is that I allegedly violate the rights of national minorities, reportedly ignoring nations, which exist at the premises of the Republic of Serbia. "The rational reconstruction of Yugoslav federalism implies bringing down the number of federal units to the number of Yugoslav peoples, so on three - Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia. Under these conditions, the right of every Yugoslav people to self-determination, including the right to secession, could be reaffirmed. In doing so, it is also necessary to give up insistence on imaginary nations, such as Montenegrin or Muslim." That's what Vojislav Seselj said in his writing "Pledoies for a Democratic Constitution". So he says the Muslim nation is made up. So much for the nation story. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: and Montenegrin. ) And Montenegrin, of course. That's why you were in the Federal Parliament, and that's why you didn't tell the Serbian Parliament that your report on the murder of Pavel Bulatovic was rejected. So it's not accepted, because it contains pamphlets, slanders, deceptions, frauds and lies. Moreover, speaking of this, the great figures of history mentioned by Vojislav Seselj, he says: "The light exception is the Yugoslav Marxist theory and its main bearers, Tito and Kardelj, who did not accept any schematic recipes and dogmatic patterns, but the Marxism came creative and managed to find optimal forms and ways of its application in Yugoslav conditions. Besides Tito and Cardell, in further deepening and reviving the theory of armed people, the prominent role of their theoretical works was played by Nikola Ljubicic and Viktor Bubanj in particular." That's what Vojislav Seselj said and stayed alive. But since Vojislav Seselj mentions here the affirmative Joseph Broz Tito, and in this booklet, which I mentioned, he says that Josip Broz Tito is the greatest evil, etc., after just a few years of writing this previous book. So, says Vojislav Seselj, that things will best be settled in the elections and I fully agree with Ali, not the elections that Vojislav Seselj is talking about, in Serbia and in SRJ, but in Croatia, because these are candidate lists for municipal and other elections in the Republic of Croatia, on which they participated, on the list of HDZ, in the municipality of Opuzen, close cousin Vojislav Seselj, Nino Seselj, on the candidate list of the Croatian-Social Liberal Party, also in the municipality of Opuzen, Seselj's close cousin, Dubravka Seselj, on the candidate list of Croatian rights, holder of the list, Seseljev's close cousin Karmello Seselj. So, when it comes to elections, Vojislav Seselj thinks about elections in Croatia, because these are elections he is interested in, since he and his party no longer have a chance in Serbia's elections, of course. Finally, as regards Emperor Dusan, Vojislav Seselj tried to quote Emperor Dusan, of course unsuccessfully, but he mentioned the provision of Article 142. Dushan's code: "Do not judge in fear of the king, but according to justice and law." But we promise you that. An independent judiciary will be formed in Serbia, which will be tried by law and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19302	He has the word National MP Vojislav Seselj (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have an important secret to tell you: the favorite figure among DOS politicians is Vladan Batic for me. First, he shows today that he reads my books intensively. He insulted me a little - he says "bookwork" for a 200-page book. Dude, I got a 1,000-page book, when you get to it, your head's gonna hurt, hey, you're gonna have to put your wig on. Furthermore, it is true that in my earliest youth, I had several apologetic texts, but that's how they taught us at school. However, while I, as a dissident, was persecuted by the police, Vladan Batic twice failed to file a request to take him into the party. When they kicked me out, he just applied to take him in and didn't want to take him in; there he was making some marriquettelucas in community services, who knows what he was doing, for some sheep, for some wonders. But not to get into it, it's his past, not to meddle in his private life. The government of Batic violated federal Criminal Law today. Because of that text he read here, I was sentenced to eight years in prison. Something reduced after that, but I did my time until the last day. He would have to know, as justice minister, that the crime of someone who has endured the punishment to the end, is to rest what he was punished for. And now the public prosecutor has to press charges against Vladan Batic. I'm going to ask the DA not to press charges because I'm still proud of that text, which is one of my best youth texts. And I must finally tell you why I have so much sympathy for Vladin Batic. There is no living Serb who hates Croats more than I do, except Vladan Batic. That's why he's nice to me, and that's why his head won't hurt, he can come at me willingly, he can read all my books, and he doesn't have enough life left to get through to them, he's got 95, and he's got to get to the seventh, the eighth, but he's got to keep going, and if we have to extend his life, and we're gonna do it just to get all the books to read. On my side, there's no lawsuit, I'm gonna stop the DA from picking her up, and if I don't feel hit, the DA can't even intervene, so he can be safe on that side. As far as the Croats are concerned, he even goes beyond what I could ever dream of. Therefore, I don't even have to talk about it anymore, there is Vladan Batic, an expert in anti-Croatian hatred and thank DOS for having such an expert in his ranks, so I have less to do and I can deal with other problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19304	The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, as president of the parliamentary group. Only if you allow MPs, if you continue, do you allow me to interrupt you, ask the Assembly to vote and decide to continue our work? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19305	Brothers and sisters of Serbs, we have brought to an end this very important topic and I suggest that we draw conclusions about this point of the agenda, so we no longer say, it's this one, it's his fault, to cut what's been so far. Serbia is occupied, and Cosmet is part of Serbia. Let's put an end to who's to blame, the SS when it comes to power will see, but right now we don't have time for gentlemen to do it and we need to help our brothers to make the conclusion of this assembly, not to abolish the PIV, but to give them a certain task. The task would be to require the PIV of UNMIK and KFOR to respect Resolution 1244: to return the army and police to the cosmet because they have such a obligation under Resolution 1244, to provide funds for Serbs living in Cosmet and for those Serbs who are here in Serbia, who have nothing to live on, have no work, have children, to help such families; to provide a special jury account and to discuss here; to determine a special commission that will examine what is missing, with 1,300 missing Serbs in Cosmet, not to have their families walking in Belgrade and never have real information, to find out what is wrong with their loved ones. Also, the Soviet Union proposes that the commission be created, not from individual parties, but that all parties have a certain participation based on the number of MPs. And that we can't say that it wasn't us from that day on, it was the ones who had that function until that day. So, today, to make such a commission, that the commission has co-operation with the Federal and Republic Government, to ask one government and the other government to go to Cosmet every week, and once a month to report to this assembly, because this assembly has chosen the government, what is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. That this new commission's office be, not to mention in Pristina, to be in Mitrovica, where things happen, that our commission may have insight into everything that's been done and that it immediately requires measures from our government. Then, we demand that the commission has co-operation with SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, that everything that happens in Cosmet be his priority and that at all meetings the topic be Cosmet, because in this country nothing can stand on healthy feet until we resolve the problem. The problem is great, it burdens us, and we must help our brothers. Please let us be brothers and sisters to solve this problem together and not fight anymore as long as this problem is in this part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19306	Since this list of speakers has been exhausted, I would like to put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the decision on the education of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Province... There's one. It is a unique search and the amendment at point 7. was submitted by MP Ljubisa Maravic. The Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. At the inauguration on whether it wasn't voted in principle, a single search was opened and it would be good for an officer to follow up on the chairman what's going on... Therefore, the Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Have the MPs been delivered an amendment or should I read it? Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Since we did not vote, excuse the MP, since we did not vote on the amendment as in the debate on individualities, we had a unique search, then you had the opportunity to explain the amendment in the context of a single search, so there is no discussion in particular. A unique search implies, it is the Parliament's decision, given the tone of today's day, we have confused it with the mind, the decision on a single search has been made and the Rules of Procedure are then held both in principle and in amendments. The amendment of MP Ljubisa Maravić reads that a new sentence is added in point 7 behind the existing sentence, which reads: The component of this decision is the report on the work of the Interim Executive Council for the period October 1998. - December 2000." I'm putting the amendment to the vote and I'm asking the MPs to come forward. For 50, against 136, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 192 MPs altogether. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We've completed this unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Ivković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask permission if you exceed the time to ask the Assembly for an extension of the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19307	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is the DOS majority in absolute position to do what they want and therefore there is no need to work past the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Article 143 defines that amendments to a member of Parliament or to a parliamentary group must be made compulsory and delivered to all MPs. Mr. Ljubisha Maravić's amendment is not divided; to see where he is; no, it is not an amendment. The amendment is a report on the work of this body on the 51st page. Just so it's clear that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, Article 43. 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-27-0.u19308	National MP Branislav Ivkovic is talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure over amendments that are no longer the subject of the debate in this assembly, because we voted and the Assembly decided to reject it. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single search and put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the decision on the education of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. For 137, against 52, a abstentioned one, was not voted four, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision to suspend the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. On the 22nd day of work, I conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
