ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24283	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second part of the second stage of tax reform. I'm not going to repeat what we talked about yesterday, and in terms of, I'd say, the general philosophy of the cause and the way we came to this package. I would only like in these few minutes of opening exposure to indicate the most important elements of this tax work. This is about, in a compliment of what we talked about yesterday, about the tax procedure law and the tax administration, which is the basis of a healthy tax administration that can enforce all these laws, and here we are talking about material laws. I'd like to say that the idea and the guidance in this part was very simple. We wanted to have three key elements in this tax package. The first is to look at the elements in our tax system, where we could make an additional shift to our citizens' standard of living. The second guideline was - the more favourable environment for innovation, and in this, the two most important things that are important for Serbia at the moment, which are employment and investment. The third guideline is to establish a fair competition on our market and strengthen financial discipline. It's suppressing the gray economy. Now I'd like to say a few sentences about these three key guidelines of this tax package. As for the very standard of our citizens, of course he's not on the level where we'd like him to be, where our citizens would like him to be. A significant shift has been made. Of course, we often hear that these statistics shown by these consumer baskets have nothing to do with life. However, however you take and look at how much you can buy today with an average salary or pension and translate it into a kilo of potatoes, onions, various foods or some goods, white techniques, we see that for the last two years progress has been made. The synthesis is a minimum consumer basket for one family of four members who needed two average salaries in the Republic of Serbia in January 2001. Translated perhaps in an even simpler language that means that in a family where they both worked, they both had to work and receive so they could cover that minimum survival. Today's situation is such that it takes one average salary in the Republic to settle this one minimum consumer basket for the family. That means that in one average family, where they both work, one works for survival, and now the other can make a little more money. Is that a little bit more awesome? Of course not. If it is judged by other elements, let us look at consumer loans, and for consumer loans we know that a minimum amount of income is sought and some perspective, a jury and the possibility of paying it off, here we see that where it was really zero, it has now crossed into about a billion, billion and a half dinars of consumer loans per month in Serbia. I could go on for a long time about the standard of living being fixed. It's fixed and no one can deny it. The question is, is he fixed for everything? The answer is - yes, it is fixed for everyone, but the problem is that we still have wide layers of our population living very hard. Tax policy, you can't do it until the end and the best social policy for the endangered layers of our population is the one that is expressed on the dissipated side, because then the best goal and help goes to those who need it most. I would say, in the very approach to tax reform, we have seen, on the idea that social policy is being conducted through tax policy and any other policy, Natalie policy, development policy, that tax policy is one of the worst instruments, and it is also dull to run those other policies. When you give tax exemption on a given product, you give that relief to everyone, both the poor and the rich. This is why it is not the best instrument for a social policy. And then you're going to ask me -- so why do you suggest, or why you suggested last year a release from paying sales taxes for some important groceries. The answer lies for three reasons. The first reason is because we continue to lack enough elaborate mechanisms to cover and target, as economists and social workers say, those who need help most. So we're not yet on the apart side, as far as we should be, ready to target and know the real situation on the ground for those who need help. Of course, we can say - let's wait until it happens, however, it's a large number of our citizens and there is no time to wait. Another reason is that if we look at what's in the consumer basket, we still have to make one difference between what the economists would call -- it's insatiable or, in a slightly more normal language, without which we can't, what people really need to do to live as much as we do, and because of that you have both fruits and vegetables, those various foods that are important to everyone and that everyone has to buy and that's not the expression of purchasing power. Sales tax is a tax imposed on purchasing power, but you have this class of groceries and things that are not expressions of some purchasing power but of necessity. That's why a number of elements and goods should be differentiated, because they're just the things that no one can without, and even the poorest ones can't. It's one of the elements, I'll go back to that in an explanation of why we suggested that we release what is being released. Finally, the third thing, because it is so important, because we are not yet able to aim in the right way and because, as I said in December of last year when there was an explanation for the release of sales taxes for some other groceries, we have unfair competition and a fairly diverse smuggling of certain goods. Look at the oil smuggling between Republika Srpska and Serbia, look at the sugar smuggling, and you will see that the release here of sales tax is some sort of recognition of the executive authority that at this point on the dispensary side we are not yet able to target in the right way, and that on the control side we are not yet able to establish a sufficient degree of proper control for what is happening on the market. This does not mean that we are giving up our aim better on the dispensary side, of course we are not giving up on better control, but the proposal that is before you today, the release of certain supplies from sales taxes, is the expression of the reality of both our state and the social moment and the state of our administration, when it comes to market inspection and, less importantly, the sanitary inspection, the inspection that is on the border and customs. One of the problems is there, and those controls have to be stronger to prevent that smuggling. All in all, around this first package, for these reasons (I think of these three key ones that I have mentioned), we propose to exempt from the sales tax sugar, edible oil and fat, as three elements that have not yet been released from this minimum consumer basket that we filled out at the beginning of this year, and you remember about fruits and vegetables, fish, eggs, meat and also drugs with positive leaves and, let me mention, communals. When you look at it and analyze that consumer basket, then you see that what is a minimum consumer basket about foods, medicines, and here we think about the poorest layers, our pensioners who have to spend these medicines, we see (there are communals) that we have made very significant progress. There is no other country in Europe that has zero sales taxes on these goods, has some smaller rates, many have higher rates, but no country, especially in transition, has a zero rate on such a wide number of goods without which it cannot be. We therefore suggest that about these three goods adopt this amendment and supplement of the Transport Tax Act. It's going to cost a lot of the state register, especially for oil; some estimate is that it's going to cost the state register three or four billion dinars. There are two other things that aren't directly related to this without which you can't, and we suggest that the sales tax be abolished on those two things. The first thing, it's computers and software, and for two reasons; it's not a minimum consumer basket, of course, but we're starting with so many low-level equipment of our citizens and our businesses, and if we want to be competitive, we really want to get into that knowledge economy, really what's the mark of the 21st century, we want to encourage the equipment of our citizens and our businesses. One, due to international accounting standards, it is not possible to release software that is purchased separately from hardware, when it is bought by companies, and for years it has been heard, in the 1990s, that when they buy a computer on which the software is already installed they do not pay sales tax because it is a basic asset, neither on either one nor on the other, and when they buy software separated from hardware, then they have to pay sales tax. We tried to see if it was possible to overcome it with a rule, what are basic assets and are at a federal level, and the answer was negative, because of the international accounting standards that we want to respect as a country, and there is one initiative, and the federal government adopted a draft accounting law that should bring us closer to those standards two weeks ago. Therefore, and because of companies that often have to buy software separate from hardware or later, it is important that we have this release. But there's another thing: it's for all parents who would like to afford their children or their entire family a single computer, they want to train, they want to join the Internet; this is a very strong message and we're going to be the only country in Europe where the tax on hardware and software is zero. The last thing is, and that's what I'd say is that new balance between the height of the intruding and entering a legal zone, the issue of a business space, the extra business space and the residential space by the natural persons. Many citizens and their associations have come to us and say they know that they live in illegals, that they do not report the significant incomes they receive from renting their residential or business space, either to some companies or to some other natural persons, and have also indicated that the cumulative tax rate was about 38%, which is quite high. This way and if you adopt a tax exemption from that category of people, that rate will go down to 19%, which is much more appropriate. But, of course, next year, and already the preparations are done in that direction, we expect all the landladys and bosses to report the income they get from renting housing or business space. So we're all going to win; that mass, I don't want to speculate now because there are various, or very large figures here we're talking about, but surely we expect, especially in cities, to report everything now. If not, I announce that we will follow the trail of those who rent and get to those who are in those apartments, who are in those rooms, and we will follow the trail of those who rent them. I suggest that this very acceptable rate is also, I would say, the gate to what must be and become legalization of the entire income. That's what the first pillar -- caring for the standard of our citizens, first of all, but also a few strong messages towards, I would say, what must be a feature of our society; indeed, if we look at some of the qualities that we have, we have a really large category of our software players who have shown themselves in our country and in the world as very valuable, and we have a large number of our people who are able to pair up to top companies in that domain. Freeing from taxes on software and hardware is a very strong message to our citizens in the country and in the diaspora, that our country wants to be competitive and wants to have as much equipment as possible for information technologies in society - businesses, schools, hospitals, public institutions, agriculture, where and how productivity can be improved, if more is done with information technologies, up to what is root, and these are our citizens. With two to three percent of personal computer equipment, with internet penetration, which is in the aggregate, and there is no need for Belgrade or Novi Sad to fool, because there is a high penetration of the internet, and in our country at the lowest rates not throughout Europe, but in the Balkans. Only Albania has a lower level of computer and internet equipment than we do. Slovenia has five times more equipment than we do, and already Croatia has three times more equipment than we do, and there is one key thing for our country's competitiveness - the knowledge economy, access to information, which especially enables the Internet, and a tool without which a modern economy cannot, which is a computer. A world language used to be spoken, and it's one gate for work, for calling; it has to be added to the knowledge of computer reading. It's not just a question of our younger generations, but it's a question for people who are in full swing, and they have to be as ready as possible to get into it, because without it they're closing their doors to something that's free or very cheap knowledge, which is there to reach their hands. This message is very clear. Finally, what I was talking about, it's a possibility to also tax a large mass that is not taxed at all today and that ran from one rate that was almost 40%; this time it's twice as low, and it's time for those like taxi drivers, athletes, estracists, those who are in bookies, when it comes to the agenda of this esteemed home gambling law to get into that order. Another pillar, I would say, the central pillar of the proposed tax package, is the one concerning our companies. What I'm saying here is that we wanted to have a very strong message for those who want to hire and who want to invest. If you adopt the proposed changes, the corporate tax rate in Serbia will be the lowest in Europe. According to the latest checks we had, the lowest in the OECD, an organisation we're not a member of, but according to which we have to measure ourselves, because there are all those countries that are doing pretty well in the world economy, with the exception of Repbulika Srpske, where that rate is 10% since last year; that will be one very strong message. I can tell you that at numerous gatherings of domestic and foreign investors, when that rate appears, there is a tight spot. This is an extremely favourable rate, and when you add two other things to that, and this is the possibility of rejecting the company's tax on profits, two years, the entire route of salary of new employees, which means that for those who employ state workers to finance the entire gross salary of that new employee for two years, it is the strongest position that exists today, not only in transition countries, but also in Europe; when you add to that the possibility of turning down 20% for large and 40% for small and medium-sized enterprises from the company's profits, from what investment in fixed assets is, and when you finally add to all investments, which are more than 10m euros and which are employed by more than 100 workers, everywhere in Serbia, and employ more than five workers and are more than 1,000 euros in areas of interest for Serbia (to translate, some other 12ms of municipalities that we have done so in terms with the most people, and so in terms, we see it is in terms with the most people, so. This is without a doubt the most attractive tax system in the corporate tax domain, the strongest incentive for employment and for the investments that exist in this element. If you look at Hungary, it had similar incentives, or the Czech Republic, five to ten years ago, so they attracted a good part of the investment, which went to Central and Eastern Europe. They, as well as Poland, the Czech Republic, and all other countries that will join the European Union in May 2004, must lift these incentives because, simply, the European Union does not want to have parts of the European Union that give such incentives, and that it encourages them for fiscal and other reasons neither Germany nor Italy nor the UK can give them, because they have great expenditures and have to finance them. In their case, the corporate tax in fiscus is a very important item. It's up to us to take this moment and this decade and be that magnet for investment, both domestic and foreign. If you look at this provision, it does not in any way give privileges to foreign investors. All investors are at the same level, and not only that, it does not give privileges to emerging businesses at the expense of those who exist today, but it is legally, status neutral, and every company will be able to take advantage of, according to participation, if we look at existing businesses, investments that exist, with these benefits. What does that mean? If an existing company invests, for example. 100m euros at a given time in employment of 400 workers, and it will be able to make a proportion if these 100m euros represent in its entire set of basic funds, will be able to free itself from paying corporate tax for ten years. So that's the second pillar, although there are some other elements that are quite important. We also have one very important news for our craftsmen, for entrepreneurs -- for them the tax goes from 20% to 14%. So that's where we made sure that this fiscal change is distributed in the same way to everyone and that there's not one formal -- legal decision, which is favored by it, so if you're a craftsman, and if this home adopts these changes, your tax will be almost halved, instead of 20% will be 14%. Also, if you look at the matter of severance and the possibility of restructuring, there we have made it possible for our citizens who are more than 50 years old to be untaxed, regardless of their amount. In this way, they are helped to move into a new career and, along with many other measures that go with this, that one generation of those who are 50 years old, who carried on their shoulders a great burden of this country, raise children, be that lost generation of transition. It's very clear that the generation that was the most exposed, which is the experience of other countries in transition, the generation of fifty-year-olds, they're too young to retire, and on the other hand, on the labour market, always in a fierce competition with younger people, who may know more languages, maybe better with a computer, maybe have fewer obligations in the house, and beyond, and who, let's say, are more flexible, as employers might say. It is very important, and this measure is directed there, that this generation will in no way be sacrificed, that those in the labour market (and that state must help them) have as strong positions as possible and not be in a subordinate position when employment occurs. That's extremely important, because, otherwise, we're going to have a risk that one whole generation considers itself a loser of this transition, but there's no reason for that to happen, and this measure is one of those that needs to make it possible. Of course, she can't do it herself, that generation doesn't consider itself a loser of these reforms. Finally, if we look at the privatisation, we've had a breach of neutrality in participation in auction privatisation. And this time, through these changes we allow it to be rightly neutral. Through the exemption from dividends and dividend taxes, for the amount of war paid through auction privatisation, we come to neutrality, so that natural persons, as well as legal persons, pay the same amount of tax and can also participate in auction privatisation. That's good, because otherwise we've already seen that we have some harmful phenomena, where some people are hiding behind some legal persons, just so they don't pay extra taxes, which they had until then. And in this way it is an additional incentive, especially for our investors, to participate in auction privatisation, to make them as many as possible and to participate in a public transparent competition through auction privatisation. I'm going to point to a third pillar concerning the suppression of the gray economy, or I'm going to say something about taxation of citizens' income. It is proposed that what was three rates of additional income tax, 10, 15 and 20%, become a single 10% rate. There has been a lot of discussion on committees about this, but that measure is not a measure that eliminates the progressiveness of taxation. No, I don't. The rate of 14% on earnings remains, the only thing that is proposed here is that we don't have those three steps in additional income taxation that exceeds 600,000 dinars if we take this year's figures. Why isn't that an end to progressiveness? Well, because those who earn more will pay a marginal rate of 24.5%, where 14% times 10% of the comfort method, which means that we have progressiveness, those who earn more and pay a tax; but what we do here is to respect our reality and that new balance in the tax part, because if we look at what happened this year we'll see that we've only had 3,280 citizens who've applied for the income tax, that annual, which simply has nothing to do with reality. On that tax we have charged barely a few dozen million dinars, so now you tell me, and I would like to avoid any kind of demagogy here, whether those rates have to be even higher; the experience shows, in our country as well as in all transition countries, that some marginal rates on the income tax of citizens, crossing 30%, are a guarantee for the gray zone, to avoid paying that tax. I just want the right intensity of the proposed measures to be understood, not to be in any event of an end to taxation by some economic power, but to get to that rate of 24.5%, and with a parallel strengthening of financial discipline, strengthening the tax administration that we talked about yesterday, in establishing that property record, which we talked about on June 30th, that this cold bill between that marginal rate for people who have money and, on the other hand, the risk of being caught in tax evasion, and the penalties they will then have, that it will be a legal balance for Serbia. We need to guard against demagogy, which says -- rich people shouldn't pay almost anything, because at these difficult moments, they have to create this layer of entrepreneurs, and later we're going to come up with some progressive taxation, which is neither our tradition nor the tradition of Europe. But there is another demagogy that says -- the rich have to pay. That demagogy then leads to no one, as has ever happened, paying anything. So, honourable MPs, here is the proposed balance for Serbia, where we have progressive taxation, but where is this marginal rate of taxation of income for citizens is the one that will also be charged in Serbia and that will lead to the order of all these other things, and especially the Tax Procedure Act, which I hope you will vote on as much as this week, so that there are not just about 60 million dinars, which is a ridiculous figure, from taxing income, but to collect several hundred million dinars through the new balance created, and very quickly and several billion dinars. So, on the one hand, people who have more money pay that tax, and on the other hand, we have reasonable rates that will enable it to be effectively charged, and that the pressure on the ejaculation due to these rates will not be so much that they will always find themselves in that balance between the level of tax and the risk of evasion and what can happen; to establish that new balance. Please accept what is the right balance for Serbia today -- a marginal rate of 24.5%, which will be the lowest in Europe, which is not a small tax, but which is a real tax, which will make all those with incomes above 600,000 dinars and pay it. Thus, both the state and those living on the budget, as well as social justice, will be properly reconciled. Of course, part of that third pillar will be a battle against the gray economy. It's hard to strengthen financial and tax discipline if you have large segments of our society that simply don't pay taxes. There are many businessmen who say that taxes always hurt, but even more painful and unbearable pains if they pay and someone else, who is in the same activity, does not pay, because it is unfair competition. If we leave wide layers of our economy and society in the gray zone, we cannot provide sufficient financial discipline. That is why these measures (although there are a lot of stories about cooperatives, and I would like to talk about cooperatives) in this package have elements of the closure of those gaps in our legislation that have been widely used for tax evasion. Take, for example, youth cooperatives. I can't help feeling that a noble idea to that extent is compromised that the tax-adjusted status must be abolished first, so that those who are in the zone come to the discussion. Then there will be - look at the surprises, ever since we started talking about this, suddenly they offer lower rates of collection with these cooperatives; it is recognised that 10% is a little too big, and I'm not saying that these cooperatives are used to finance other, different things and that in this way they hire "youths" of 50 years and more. That's a lot of abuse in our country, and the biggest victims of all of this are the young men themselves. In this way, employers have not paid them a single day of work for years. If we think about those changes in the pension system that we're going to have in a few months, when we're going to count on the entire working century, as it is done in all countries, to calculate the pensions that are due to come, then it's very important to send a strong message to employers that they're not going to go through youth cooperatives anymore. I can tell you for a very long time about such things, about what we found in the field, how many companies in Vrsac, who and how well they do, have abused many of these forms of work. That's why I don't want to get into any demagogy. Of course we need cooperatives, but not like this. That's where the big reform is expected. It's time to put an end to what's been misused. When the federal law that regulates it comes down to a republican level, then we'll set up real dialogues, clear it up, and maybe that tax incentive will come back. We've already talked about athletes. I won't talk about it anymore. But there are also fiscal registers. Fiscal cash registers are the only way we can avoid wild competition in the core killing our organized trade. One wholesaler told me - Djelic, I know why you want fiscal cash registers, you'd like to check how much we steal from you. Hand to heart, steal, but I want fiscal cash, too, because I'd like to know how many of my people are stealing from me. By issuing a fiscal memory account, there are penalties for those who do not take the account are necessary. They have proved particularly necessary in Southeast European countries. The last example is Montenegro, which, with hard efforts, introduces this discipline, so that when you go to a restaurant and you see that the place is full, six hours, and when you ask to see the market, you see that only 20 meals are served. Not to mention that we have incredible holes in our system, where for many merchants you have what's real market and on the other hand there's nothing to report. There we can't have the expansion of normal, civilized trade, especially through that gray zone. If we tolerate it, we will not have these big trade chains, nor will we have this driving force for the great production of many goods and our industry, therefore, through competition, less margins and thus lower prices for our citizens, unless we do this. So behind the fiscal registers is cheaper food, cheaper white technique for all our citizens, and that's not such a far future, one such mechanism and the bond I'm talking about. That's why I urge you to adopt this and make it more order next year. Of course, there won't be any privileges with any suppliers. There have been many abuses in other countries. The Serbian government will only prescribe minimum technical conditions for these fiscal cash registers and then any supplier that settles these conditions will be able to reconcile our market. So there won't be any monopoly, or giving that big market to just one firm. Of course, first of all, I'm talking about Nislims. Of course we're going to help El Nisha, and they're going to find a place like this through one of these jobs and be their driver for an important part of that industry. They've already done some operations, with possible co-operation with some who have licenses in that domain, who already have experience, that they can produce. This tax package is extremely favourable. Rarely when one government, one finance minister can offer such a favourable package. He's going to cost the state register of about 10 billion dinars. It's not small money. A few weeks ago, they misappropriated something I said, that it was some sort of reward, as if the government were there to reward citizens for tax cuts. Of course, I've never said it that way, but I want to say that this reduction or elimination of taxes would in no way have been possible if on one side of the country had not fought smuggling and that our citizens and businesses had not, to some extent, strengthened financial discipline. These lower rates with a wider base will allow us to move on. The next steps -- as I have pointed out, if we strengthen this financial discipline, we will be able to consider a very serious reduction in sales tax at the end of next year, which will then be a value added tax and a reduction in wage tax, in the regular procedure. I'm very proud that we're able to offer one of these packages. Many of our citizens expect it, and that would mean that at the end of next week we will have 17% cheaper this good, which we have talked about, that we will be able to buy computers, oil, fat for so much cheaper, and for our businesses, for all those who think it should invest, we will have a much more favourable environment, the most favourable in Europe in terms of income tax and corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24284	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want the word? The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has already called.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have just heard a long, too long exhibition by Minister Djelic, during which Minister Djelic literally presented everything he knows. All of his knowledge he just implicated from this pay phone. Unfortunately, little was involved in these six laws, which are on the agenda today. I will try to be as concrete as possible and start by pointing out that this tax-law package is changing the government's tax policy entirely. After a year and a half, Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic realized that in many things we Serbian radicals were right, when last year we criticised those tax laws and many things now accept to take into account when reducing tax rates or releasing taxes. But now these laws on changes and additions, passed last year... Djelic, listen to this, it's smarter for you to listen to this. I think the minister is obliged to listen to me. MPs are not obliged to listen to ministers, and ministers are obliged to listen to MPs, as ministers thus show what they think of the National Assembly. I'll take the order of the law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act extends the list of products which are exempt from the payment of sales taxes, and that is good. It's about edible oil, oil rape, soy, olives, edible fat and sugar. We all asked for it in 2001. But I ask the question why no meat sales tax has been lifted, and does that mean that Serbian citizens should stop eating meat. It's only been lifted on frozen meat. What did you do with the baby food? Why hasn't the child food tax been lifted? I guess that was the primary. Why is there no tax on the marketing of fish and dairy products of short duration or short-term dairy products? Furthermore, here you are saying that you are exempting products under humanitarian aid, imported through international or domestic humanitarian organisations. This general provision must not survive, because if you release what is humanitarian aid, it means that humanitarian aid is distributed free of charge. What you get as humanitarian aid, so you sell, it has to come under general provisions. If the goods are tax-free, they are released from humanitarian aid. You as a humanitarian aid can get new Mercedes and sell new Mercedes without sales tax. The humanitarian aid is exclusively what is shared for free. To get something as a humanitarian aid, and for you to sell and release sales taxes, it's a crime. This also applies to humanitarian aid that comes through the Red Cross. If the Red Cross shares free of charge, then there's no sales tax. If he sells by chance, he must be taxed as much as anything else, because the Red Cross can theoretically get the Mercedes to share as humanitarian aid or sell. We have a lot of experience through humanitarian organisations of crime, abuse, violations of tax, customs and other regulations. Furthermore, you release your personal computers and that's good, but why don't you get rid of book sales taxes, scientific, professional publications, betrists, textbooks and school supplies first. First it needs to be released from the sales tax, then the computers, because in order for a man to qualify for a computer, he has to read books first. It's hard for the state to deal with people who went straight to the computer and skipped reading books. Next, you didn't release the clothes and shoes for the children, and you had to, and that was far more important than the personal computers. I don't mind that you released your personal computers, and that's good, but something else is showing up here. This is where the lobbyes of importers appear and there are importers for benefit, not those who buy personal computers, because personal computers are more and more cheap, how much competition is on the world market. Next, you're saying you're terminating the sales tax on renting business and other premises, which are performed by natural persons. Why business and other space wouldn't be evened out no matter who owns it, whether it's a physical or legal person. Where's your principle? Therefore, owners of trade and catering activities are obliged to introduce a fiscal cash register. It'd be all right if I didn't know what was behind it. You already have in mind the manufacturers of these registers, which will be monopolies. Why didn't you first train a few domestic factories to produce these registers, to be sufficient on the market, so when there's enough on the market to make it mandatory for everyone to get that register, as it used to be called, or the fiscal register. Of course, you're already planning an importer and who you're going to bring in from, and everything else. Next, you oblige the owners of trade and catering shops to issue a physical face when leaving the store or another business space account, and that's fine. It's his obligation to issue an account, but how can you oblige the man who comes out of that store to have an account? What Western country is it in? Is that in France? When Djelic comes out of a gem in France, the police are waiting for him and asking for a bill. It doesn't. Second, how are you going to get a group of people out of the catering facility and you're asking everyone for a bill, and there's 10 of them. It's not where Djelic lived, because when people go to the pub, everyone pays for it. A husband and wife pay for themselves, but usually when people go to a bar, they go more and more rarely, one in society today pays, the other tomorrow, the third day, etc. Not everyone can have an account. Why would he keep that account? You can't commit him. Furthermore, in 2001, we asked you to abolish the tax on seed material, medicines, medical supplies, orthopaedic aids. We asked for a service tax reduction from 17% to 12%, because it used to be 9%, etc. Why didn't you cancel the electricity sales tax? That's not where you're going to end it. I guess it's more important to cut the electricity tax first, then the personal computers. I guess electricity is a prerequisite for someone to own a computer in the first place. If a man doesn't have electricity, what's he need a computer for? Produce computers in sunlight. I want to show you that there's no logic here, that the interests of various business groups, importers, producers, these, those. You are creating new monopolies here, giving them relief, and you have not taken care of the interests of Serbian citizens. If you had taken care of their interest, you would have defined those priorities differently here. Further, release the gas tax. We're only looking for domestic air carriers. Why do you free strangers? You first sold them, however, this DSS Shami did, gave Lufthanzi five nights in Belgrade, which means that in the morning, Lufthanza picks up all the passengers to Central Europe and our carriers can take pictures. Now you're still releasing them from the taxpayer's obligations to the plane's fuel. I need some of you, some of them. Now I'm strictly running an E.R. policy, and I'm never going to attack you until I attack the DSS, and I'm never going to DSS until I attack the DS. I'm going to make a little deal with one, a little deal with the other, but each of them will get their own portion, both the Djindjics and Kostunicas. Next, we have amendments to the Law on Income Tax here. In 2001 you introduced a tax on a warm meal, a field supplement, a regression, patents and technical improvements, copyright and industrial property rights, a real estate income tax increased to 20%. We asked to reduce all of this to 10% and be the same in capital gains. A list of non-tax-payable incomes is expanded: severance payments at retirement to double average monthly earnings, cash benefits paid to an employee in the event that the need for his work has ceased, one-time cash benefits paid when the working relationship ends in the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, restructuring of enterprises, as you call it, and preparation for privatisation. (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? Yes. You're also reducing the rate of income tax from agriculture and forestry from 20% to 14%. We're looking for 10%. We've looked before, but now you're much closer to what we were looking for than what you set up in 2000. I consider this an expression of your self-criticism and I support this. I told you before, where you make a good move, I will publicly commend you. It's a good thing you're reducing these tax rates, but I'm afraid in many cases you've done it too late, because many of your taxpayers have died in the meantime. I warned you from this same pay phone that the smart government's goal is to protect the existing taxpayers and to expand their numbers constantly, because that way the government's register will be fuller. Tax bonds are kept at lower tax rates, and you have killed many, figuratively speaking, too high a tax rate and reduced the number of taxpayers. You have reduced the number of taxpayers and thus reduced revenue sources to the state, and you have struck a difficult blow to the economy. You're also reducing your income taxes from independent employment to 14%. It was 20%. It's already a visible advance, but we're looking for 10%, because that would be optimal. And this 14% is closer to ours than yours. Therefore, you should take another serious step forward and go further towards reducing tax rates -- you will increase the number of taxpayers and reduce the number of those who avoid paying taxes. Secondly, we ask that the taxes of scholarships and loans of students and students be released up to the amount of one average profit. Why didn't you do it? There's a big problem in the company of crediting students, students, and you're seducing taxes and not thinking about how unwarranted they are, and harmful. When it comes to the Property Tax Act, you suggest that users of immovable property are property taxpayers, rights to real estate that are in the state property acquired by public enterprises whose founder is the Republic or achieved by investing in government capital, and the exemption from paying property tax, property rights, to actions acquired in the property transformation process. That's what I support. That's what we've been looking for before. You haven't heard before, now you've changed your mind. It's smart when you change your mind. Only an idiot doesn't change, smart people change, perfect, etc. I'd like you to perfect everything, not just in some detail. Therefore, understand this remark of mine well-intentioned. We're looking for (you'll see already in the amendments), some other improvements. It would be wise to think about these improvements, because they would improve tax policy, reduce tax burdens on taxpayers, and thus increase the receipts of the state cash register in perspective, and not, like now, create a situation where people prefer to close down businesses and check out companies, rather than being willing to submit to your excessive tax rates. In 2000, you introduced excise duties on natural juices We asked for the reduction of excise duty on oil and gasoline, we asked for the elimination of excise duty on salt, oil for storage, oil for lighting, the reduction of excise duty on liquid gas, the different application of excise duties on domestic and foreign cigarettes, on coffee from 10 to 5 dinars, etc. Now you have partially accepted these requirements and are proposing to reduce excise duties on motor oils and ointments from 50 to 45 dinars per litre. It's too small. You'd have to take care of the storage oil, because one high percentage of the population uses oil for heating. Now the price of that oil is almost equal to the price of diesel. The worst part is, it's hard to get the oil to lay down. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, I remind you that in 2001 we asked for expenditure on health, cultural, educational, scientific, humanitarian, religious, sports purposes, as well as the protection of the human environment, to be recognised as expenditure of 5% of the total income. You introduced 3% or 3.5%, as I recall. We asked the company's profit tax to be paid 15% instead of 20%, as the government suggested. It used to vary between 15% and 20%, it wasn't the same for everyone. We asked for a tax exemption from newly established enterprises for two years from the day of establishment. We asked for investment in fixed assets to be reduced not by 10, but by 50%. You haven't heard of it. But now you're getting a little bit better, not enough, in my opinion. You're now reducing the profit tax rate from 20 to 14%. We're looking at 10% now. It is good, but it can do even better, since many things have changed in the meantime and very few companies are really making a profit in their business. The tax credit, instead of the current 10%, would be recognised in double the amount, i.e. 20% of the investments made in the purchase of the fixed assets, as you suggest. We're looking for 50%. That would be really stimulating for new investment in the economy. You are proposing to reduce the tax charged for businesses 14% at 100% gross earnings paid to new workers over a period of two years. We asked for this by amendment when the law was passed in 2001. This is exactly what we were looking for, and then you weren't hearing. I am pleased to find that in the meantime and on this matter you have improved and that at least after a year and a half you have accepted that amendment. Here I still insist on what you suggest to increase the tax credit to small businesses from 30% to 40% of investments made and the purchase of fixed assets. We are asking for 50% by amendment and here, and we believe that this rate of 50% would be the most appropriate, as a stimulant to increase investment in the economy. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, there are some improvements here. You probably remember how much we've been having a fire row here about those newly introduced taxes on boats without a motorcycle, small boats with a motorcycle, etc. You've even taxed boats up to three metres and even in a caricated relationship here, we've represented your mistakes over some things that threaten the lives of people who are vitally directed to the river. You even gave them a small boat up to three metres without a motorcycle you taxed. Now you're straightening out and that's what's right, you're cutting taxes on boats without a motorcycle, boats with engines up to 7.38 kilowatts, holiday houses and a raft house. We asked for all of this in the 2001 amendment, which is why I support that part. It is good that the tax on trophy weapons is abolished, because there is an entire category of citizens who have earned this trophy weapon by participating in the war or by performing functions in police, military, etc. Two pieces of guns, tops, and that's good. You've introduced now - and to the weapons that the debtor has won as a reward. However, we are asking for an amendment to equalise all citizens by freeing the arms tax on one piece of weapons to hold or carry. Why? As for carrying guns, of course we can have a debate, and it might stay, we wouldn't insist much. To hold arms - because of family tradition, and in Serbia each house has at least one piece of weapons. It must be in rural, mountainous areas, etc. For keeping the house, therefore, we ask our amendment to allow each family to own one piece of weapons without paying taxes, and then to comply with all other tax rates. You know, there are hunters who only have one hunting rifle, and there are hunters who compete to have 20, 30 hunting rifles of various types. It's not always the same. Not everyone can generally have the same tax liability cut. So, we in the SRS are in an analysis of these new tax laws that you are correcting your tax policy, we have approached specifically, professionally, studioically, and we have submitted a number of amendments and if you seriously examine these amendments, consider and accept, we could also support you. I ask of you that, deprived of ideological prejudices, consider all these amendments that we have submitted, so that it doesn't happen after a year to remember our amendments and to correct yourself again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24286	20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24287	It is better now to do so in good time, to accept the amendments, so that the tax laws are better.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24288	The next registered speaker is the president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24289	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to return this debate to what might be the essence of our work today. In fact, I'd like to suggest a precise analysis of procedures that can't be observed separately or separately. The idea of tax reform is an idea that has arisen not only from the need of the state to respond to those requirements that it has to answer if it wants to be responsible, because I remind you that tax is not an imaginary category; tax is a means of achieving the kind of income that meets the requirements of professors, judges, police officers, soldiers, doctors, those requests that the state has to respond to if it wants to be responsible and if it wants to function. With that in mind, the first laws we discussed as a new parliament in early 2001 were just laws reforming the fiscal system. At that time, we expanded the tax base and evened the tax rate that puts the state against the economy and citizens as the category and norm that must be respected and to which it must be answered to an absolute extent. In view of, say, this year's experience, I have to tell you that there were not exactly those forecasts that we were interpreted in advance as irresponsible, ambitious power, a government that would not come across the support and response of this society, just the answer we expected. It has been said that there is no one to pay, that after three months we will be torn down by power, that what we do has no example in the world. After a year and a half, I introduce you to the following facts. In October, based on analyses conducted, the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, achieved 80% of the planned tax funds. Out of profit taxes, 77% were charged, income tax 78%, and sales tax 82%, excise 81%, financial transaction taxes 71% and other incomes almost 90%, reminding you of the reduction in those rates that have been burdened with financial transactions and which we have actually done a concession and a service to those players who appear in the financial capital market and who receive additional incentives in this way. The idea of competitiveness besides the idea of equality is very important. Today when we talk, we are not talking about Serbia that is isolated and closed. We are talking about Serbia participating in the market, which is an ambitious participant in the market and who wants to win a game in which the rules are known. The rules don't define us, but we have to adapt to them if we want to be good at that match. When we talk about one of those markets, you'll see that we today have the most liberal tax system on the market. In income tax, we have the most liberal tax system. In corporate profits, we have the most liberal tax system. In tax subsidies, we have an absolutely liberal tax system fully compatible with the tax systems of the most developed European countries. I'm asking you, are you aware of how much it really means to give up and how much order that must be respected and who needs to meet? Very much so. Not exactly those remarks that have been made here and which have been banished our attempts to further tax liberalisation go a step further in that direction to format our economy and our state as systems of merged courts in which it is spent exactly as much as it can be obtained. In early 2001, we said that the coat of this society would be as much as we had material and that we would all have to adapt according to that coat, so that's what we're doing. You don't print money, you control finance, there's no uncontrollable inflation, and at the same time there's growth in the economy, which allows us to talk today about taking taxes off oil, sugar, fat, computers, software. On liberalisation and continuing to lower corporate tax -- it is not negligible that 14% of the company's profits are charged in Serbia and 40% in Greece. It is not negligible that the European average in that segment of tax policy is between 30% and 40%, that in our environment it is far greater than these 14% that we are talking about here in Serbia today. Does this mean that the state won't be able to respond to its needs and the way it has met this year? Does that mean there won't be money for those systems that the state has to finance? Does this mean that the judge will have a lower or irregular salary, a doctor's pay less or a riot, that the teachers will demonstrate again? No, I don't. The planned budget for 2003 is 261 billion. It is about 50% higher than that budget that was typical of 2001, and I think even 60%, given the donations that came and the funds received through the privatisation process; but our economy still stood on its feet and the state began to function, and exactly the lack of funds achieved through tax collection appears as an surplus in a stable economy that produces something and makes profit, a profit that enables it to operate independently of us. The objectives of the tax system are, among other things, the objectives imposed on us by that obligation to respond to the needs of society and we have no right to answers that are ineffective. A state that has a tax system, which does not correspond to the extent it has to correspond, is not a serious state and that tax system is, as good as it is on paper, ineffective and dysfunctional unless applied. We, after a year and a half of applying a certain tax system and model, are now in a position to move on to liberalisation. The idea of an efficient and controlled tax system and a responsible taxpayer is, in fact, the idea of extended liberalisation, and the most efficient and most stable states are exactly those countries where the tax rule is sacred. Therefore, an effective tax system in a concrete sense means fiscal, or tax discipline. We can say that based on these facts that I've been talking about, which since October of the month indicate that we've charged 80% of the total of the funds, we have a disciplined taxpayer, but there are still a lot of parameters that point to the gray economy and not the one that survives, but the grey economy that destroyed the country's economic substance in the past 10 years, which has been trying to transform itself, but because of our inefficiency and incompetence still exists as a very important category in our economic life. So that's what he's fighting with tax money, and we didn't invent the cash register, it's invented by other countries; if we want to live with the lives of those sorted states, if we want to have the financials that are necessary for a stable state, then we have to raise the funds in an identical way. I'm going to tell you one example that only partially turns away from this topic, the funding budget for science and technology in the United States is about $270 billion. It is the summation budget of the Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain and France, but they came to these funds with incredible tax discipline. If it can work in the United States, it will have to work in Serbia, because we are now seeking this model of an ideal society where it fully meets the needs of citizens whose service you are. So the cash register is not an obstacle. Kasa is a path to a stable economy in which one who works will be very happy to pay taxes because they will see their benefit, and one who cheats will disappear in that game. As you get on sports grounds red and yellow card or fifth personal when you break the rules, the fiscal register is your judge who will point to disrespect rules and disqualify you. Who's going to produce those fiscal registers? We don't know that, it's not a topic for parliament. We have passed a Law on Public Procurement that makes it very precise to prevent any abuse. Whether it's a domestic company or it's going to be someone abroad, let it remain a market, and we are obliged to pass a law on public procurement that will not favour one or the other, which will respect the needs of this country, but will not put us in a position to wait for some cash register for the next five years. Those who want to be successful will be successful, and in this year and a half, we can certainly see it on numerous examples. We're not afraid of that kind of challenge, and I think it's a banalization of an idea that's quite good and that's correct. The account - not DOS MPs or the Republic Government invented: pure account, long love. The one who pays should get the bill, because he wants to know what he paid for it. When you don't get the bill, you don't know what you've paid, you can't complain about being cheated on, you can't complain about not getting your change back, and you can't complain about someone telling you tomorrow -- well, you didn't get the right quality because you bought illegal, you don't have a guarantee for it, and we can't be responsible for that kind of behavior. When you get the bill, you confirm your right and that account is the responsibility of whoever sold you something as a favor. Fearing people by the fact that someone will have to give you an account or that a seller will have to have a cash register is a bauk without any cover. That's those stories we heard a year and a half ago. In a year we will talk here about further liberalisation of the fiscal system, further tax cuts, but we will also be very happy to point out the facts that say that in this country the tax is paid and that Serbs are not primitive people or citizens of Serbia who are unable to pay taxes, which avoid it, do not respect laws; it is a flossula that has been imposed on us for 50 years. In this country, the legal system cannot function, not because citizens do not want to respect it, but because it has been done entirely beyond any interest of citizens and society. Now that that changes, it's clear that we're a well-organized society, a society of responsible individuals, who are in transition, and it's taking a lot of effort, but it's really responding to the extent to which it has to be respected. These are good laws, these are good liberalisations. I'm sorry we lost a week, but I think by the end of the week we're going to let the citizens, after political irresponsibility, still live easier, and that's one concrete political message that I can send you right now. Let's focus on analysis, let's see what are the items of tax reforms that can be further liberalized, but don't be afraid of each other, especially the citizens, because it's done and predicated to failure, and based on what our work has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24290	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24291	Dear People's MPs, a respected presidency, the DSS voted for it last April, when this set of tax laws was set up in the Assembly. At that time, the objectives of these tax laws, which primarily refer to the following three areas - are to reduce tax burdens, a simpler and fairer tax system, economic recovery and inclusion in world and European flows. We have a pretty long period behind it, so we can look back on what's done. For these reasons, the DSS also voted in favour of the law. The tax burden is still high (which is what I especially build on), which is what our economic results say. Our economic results are bad, we have unexpected small investments. The words of a businessman speak best of it. It can be said that the second objective is a simpler and fairer tax system, mostly met. This primarily refers to the uniform rate of sales taxes and the removal of those tax rates which were in force until then, although we must admit that through December changes these proposed changes have now been complicated in some way. The most important goal, which is economic recovery and integration into European and global flows, is not only the objective of the fiscal system, but is, above all, one general economic goal and the goal of each normal government. We can say that it is not fully met and that is also shown by macroeconomic indicators. In this way, it is evident that these public finances are in some way and selfish. Normally, we have to fence up and say -- we can't let ourselves get into a situation where we have the kind of public finances that were in place during the one-party system and later in the '90s, but the complete rigidity of public finances for the rest of the system is inadmissible again. What do we have today? Exactly what the minister said was fulfilled is a large part of planned revenues, budget revenues based on taxes. The growth of these revenues was planned compared to 2001 by 19.5%, achieved by 40%, which in itself says a lot as a good indicator, however, when it is considered that in the same period, production growth was slightly more than 1%, gross national income growth by 2.5%, it is certainly not proportionate and it says something. They are probably also aware of the proposals of this law and are now sort of discharging these inadequate surplus revenues, but the question arises is whether our fallen economy is too late. Foreign investment is insufficient, slightly more than $100m, the external trade deficit is increased; what is also not good is not a good tax structure. We have a high share of these special taxes, such as sales tax and excise taxes, which together account for 63.9% of total tax revenues. On the other hand, these other taxes, meaning direct income and profit tax - is disproportionately large income tax relative to profit tax, which should be one of the main instruments of tax policy. It can be concluded that the tax model did not have built-in mechanisms to encourage labour, savings and investment. Again, this current system is successful from the point of view of fiscal function, and it is certainly satisfactory in a short time. We had both in fiscal function and in monetary function a major shift, but these shifts were in some previous historical periods, so in the end we failed to make a comprehensive reform - (not us, but those who were then in power, normally). That in itself is not enough to praise the Ministry, perhaps the Ministry of Finance, but the government certainly is not, and that in itself is not enough for us to say that we have succeeded in these reforms. After such isolated actions, it may happen that the whole of the reform fails, which is certainly not the goal of anyone. What is certainly the goal is something that can be put into some correlation with economic recovery and ultimately what interests all political parties and government - by increasing citizens' standards. It's probably an increase in foreign investment, and that, like I said, we haven't had in this year. The question is whether isolated fiscal reform can in itself help increase foreign investment unless we have other reforms, in other areas of economic life, and above all reform of the legal system, political and state stability. I would refer to these taxes that are on the agenda - first, sales tax. The most impressive goal. In 2001, it was a unique tax rate. We accepted it, supported that unique tax rate of 20%. Then, as we have heard from some previous debaters, there have been many amendments that have gone in the direction of liberating certain goods from that unique rate. It was not accepted at the time, except in some exceptions, and those exceptions matter. They're still repeating themselves today. The question is whether the right categories of goods, which are affected, as Minister Djelic said when he spoke about the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the Law, to the standard of citizens or some lobbyes that managed to produce this reduction in sales taxes for their kind of goods. When it is said that goods with insatiable and elastic demand should be treated differently in this sense, the question is whether personal computers belong to that group and the question arises - why, firstly, even last year, excluded publications and books from sales taxes, according to the approval of the Ministry of Culture, Science and Technology, and only now, I hope that this will be adopted, or the Government has adopted it only now, through the adoption of the DSS amendment, only now is it done with textbooks and teaching tools, which certainly do not have an elastic demand. The amendment of the DSS to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Tax Act went exactly that way; so we accepted those derogations, or we accepted that principle that some goods could be freed, but in a better way we systematiced it, so I am pleased that the Government, or the Minister, has accepted it. In conclusion, it can be said that this law cannot be accepted as a very good solution, but the necessary solution is safe, and above all temporary. Tax reform is certainly aimed at introducing value added tax. When it comes to profit tax, however, it must be said at the outset that its participation is, unfortunately, little. This reduction from 20% to 14% is good. I have to point out that we've advocated it since April last year. I don't think it would be at the expense of some total fiscal incomes, given this small share of the profit tax, and that should have been seen back then. On the other hand, the solutions that are now given in terms of new tax credits, related to investment in basic means of employment and investment in areas of importance for the Republic, we have to admit, existed in the 1992 law, so that in some ways we are returning to this area, or we are approaching some of the solutions that existed, but are not adequately applied in the previous government. In the case of income tax, the same situation is with self-employed activities. Entrepreneurs are treated the same as businesses, so that's the thing that's been around for a long time. It's nothing new, on that side it's not some big shift. (President: Will you use the next ten minutes? Yes. What's interesting is, it's about the annual income tax, where the progressive rate of 10 and 20% is changed by a single 10%. The tax is probably marginal and the government's representatives said there were very few of these tax returns. We are here by the Secretary of the Assembly, as MPs, at the end of last year we were informed of our obligation to report that annual tax, and we have done so; however, the question is, how wide was the application of these taxes, that is, the application of that annual income tax, and what is the status of the offices themselves, in municipalities, or in departments for that annual income tax. I don't like the explanation that by eliminating that two-stage of 10 and 20% it's more justly regulated, because it's really an area that's connected to a very small number of extremely wealthy people, or people with extremely high incomes, so we think it could have stayed, but in principle this solution doesn't change much, this one of 10%. As for the other laws, first of all property taxes, we think that solutions are good and we fully support them. As for these two laws, this tax on the use and keeping of certain goods, in April of last year we said it was an outdated tax and that it should be abolished. Such taxes rarely belong to the country. It also applies to a tax that is not on the agenda today, which is a tax on financial transactions. There's something better going on here, and I think he's about to be lifted. Accizes have some symbolic changes, which are good, so we also accept that. And finally, let me say that the DSS accepts these solutions as necessary, and that is why we will vote in favour of this package of tax laws. Thus, by voting in favour of this package of tax laws, we do not support the government's economic policy, let alone the entire government's policy. We believe that boasting, that is, that successes in one of these isolated areas can be an alibi for all other failures is wrong and that the government should stop doing that, and the DSS has pointed out this through the work of its shadow government, so that our support in this sense can really be viewed completely isolated. So that's to support a single necessary solution, which certainly isn't one overall solution that can fix a bad situation in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24292	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24293	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, set of amendments and additions to the laws that the National Assembly today discusses for MPs of the SPS means the recognition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it was wrong when it introduced certain taxes more than a year ago, but also that the proposed changes and additions are superficial, selective, show absolute inconsistency of the Government but also the intention to adopt these laws and marketing campaigns that follow the demand and put into second plan all the bad things that the Government has done here and especially in the field of tax policy. Mrs. Micic, please take these throws... [[Sagar.]] (President: Please do not disturb the speaker. ( ) Who was on the Administrative Board today saw that because of the verbal delinquent, a man can also be removed from the assembly session and physical violence can be brought to an equal with a verbal delinquent. So I say - please take care of the order in the assembly session and prevent the drop of MPs. Anyone who can listen can, who cannot leave the assembly session. The government now publishes tax exemption for edible oil, fat and sugar, personal computers and software on big bells. The only thing the government doesn't want, and it doesn't want because it can't, is to explain why the tax on these products was paid in the first place, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia made that decision and not someone else. We are asked by the Socialists not to pay taxes on these but also on other products a year ago by the government and Mr. Resort Minister to be convicted of countering tax reforms. The goal of this government has been before, and even now, that citizens should pay taxes on everything they own and use, but as it is seen that this way will no longer allow ordinary citizens to endure, and that rating falls, of course, the simplest solution for good marketing and trying to fix ratings, which is the release of some products from taxes to see that the Government of Kobajagi takes care of citizens. We socialists ask the government the same question, the same question we asked over a year ago, why tax obligations are not released and textbooks, school supplies, studies, baby equipment and children's food. Why aren't all dairy products free of sales taxes - yogurt, cream, white cheese, helmet, since they have a large share in the diet of the population, especially children and the elderly? Why can sugar and milk produce not? If there is concern for people then dairy products should be released from sales tax before they are used by more people, and they are more important to the health of people than sugar. We also believe that the solution to freeing the introduction of the fiscal cash register is limited to a small number of persons, that it is mandatory to include day-to-day press vendors, then the transport of oil derivatives through pump stations, the owners of independent craft shops, which have outdoor sales facilities. It can only be imagined, if the proposal of the SPS parliamentary group is not adopted, what kind of crowds will be at the gas stations and what can happen. The subsequent mind of the government of the Republic of Serbia is also the abolition of the arms tax that the debtor received when he retired from VJ or the MUP, or on a trophy weapon. When it comes to the income tax of citizens, there is absolute inconsistency of the government. A year ago, the government and the resolute minister claimed that it was justified that there was a progressive rate, that one who had more needs and to pay, that other solutions on the proportional rate were retrograde and unacceptable, etc. Of course, such efforts by the government and the minister were in the role of the government's policy at the time and expectations that representatives of the previous government, members of the SPS, and, they say, those close to them would be punished through tax collection. You remember the stories of the vast wealth that individuals possess and the money that tax should be part of the state budget. In this function there was also tax on extra income and extra property. What happened? Of the promised billions of dollars and taxes on extraprofits, there was nothing. According to the RUJP report, only 121 million German marks were charged by 31 August 2002, so 12.1% of the tax on the solutions delivered, i.e. 14.9 per judicial solution. The results are bad because the criteria for selecting taxpayers were political and subjective. Since the government has punished who needs to be punished now, the matter obviously does not need to be sharpened, with rich people in particular, but should resort to the solution that all citizens pay the same: those who have modest earnings or some additional income, as well as those who have great wealth. Such a tax policy kills ordinary citizens who are also the poorest payer of taxes, and through their fingers is seen by large taxpayers so-called. big fish, which is the objective of the state, because less money is being poured into the tax register. The government itself, when it comes to abolishing the progressive rate, is denying it. In light of the tax code and the tax administration, it is said that it is not practically enforceable to tax on progressive rates because RUJP has no insight into the amount of these incomes taxed after deduction. If RUJP is abolished then this insight will be possible and the logical question follows - why is the progressive tax rate abolished and replaced proportionally. That these laws have in them a lot of marketing confirms exactly this story of a progressive rate that taxes on the income of citizens and bringing athletes into the context of paying taxes, such as them is most favourable, which is not slow, but why only athletes and not other categories of capable and valuable people stand out. This courting of athletes is obviously an attempt to cancel and forget the lack of basketball players at an appointment with the Prime Minister, all those whistles that were heard at the FINA Cup and at the "Pionir" hall at the basketball tournament. We SPS MPs believe that a poor solution to the law on the income tax of citizens is what is proposed to remove the tax relief so far on payments through student, student and youth cooperatives. We believe that so far solutions should remain because this contributes to greater youth engagement in the work of these cooperatives. Whoever was a high school student, worked through these cooperatives, knows that he appreciates their importance and a positive role in the budget and the lives of unemployed people. If this solution were to be accepted, it would virtually end all these cooperatives, which we consider inadmissible, especially not to provide for any new solution or bill that would settle this issue. These cooperatives should stay. Of course, so far tax incentives, and the government and the ministry, future tax police -- let them do their job and punish those who do not comply with the law. Besides, now we're going to have the police, the cops, the special police and other types of police, and we're going to have the IRS, and we're going to practically have a cop per capita, so these police are going to have something to do, let them deal with the way these cooperatives operate. If, of course, they don't comply with the law. As regards the profit tax, the SPS MPs proposed a greater exemption from the base-based tax to encourage domestic enterprises and to reduce unnecessary imports, i.e. the outflow of foreign exchanges, when the assets are invested, i.e. economic activity is carried out in areas of particular interest for the Republic. We have also proposed a special member - that the taxpayer who suffered the consequences during NATO aggression be free of the obligation to pay corporate tax, without a time limit, and to the level of the determined war damage established by the state commission. Normally, the financial amount of war damage would be reduced by the government of the Republic of Serbia's financial assistance to eliminate the consequences of NATO bombing. Since the amount of war damage has been determined and our current authority, unfortunately, must not ask NATO members to pay for the war damage done during the bombing, this is a way to help economic operators who have suffered the damage to work. There are other examples that confirm the government's double arches in tax policy, surface, intending to impose solutions that taxpayers cannot withstand, of course, subsequent brains but bad solutions, are bad for Serbian citizens. If amendments submitted by SPS MPs are not adopted, bad laws will be worse, and SPS MPs will not support such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24294	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24295	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party spoke to Minister Djelic when he increased his tax rates a year ago that this is bad and that citizens in Serbia are not in a position to accept the price, when at the producer's price and what is called, which enters the calculation, adds 5% or 7% higher taxes, that this will affect a large number of citizens in Serbia. Minister Djelic did not believe us because he had not lived in Serbia for years and did not know how the Serbian people lived. We from the Serbian Unity Party expected that, as it came now at the end of 2002, Mr. Minister and Government would come out to say what the government did this year: we reduced those taxes, we provided that, and so on. Their work report would not be positive if such a proposal were not proposed, such as at today's session. Listening to the minister as he spoke, that's very nice for the ear, but when it's done in practice, it's not like that. He says -- independent craftsmen, you can expect us to cut your taxes in half, and then say two more sentences and say 20% to 14%. When they listen to independent craftsmen and those who pay taxes, they say -- you see, this is the best government. When it comes to profit tax, I ask the minister if he has checked in the Court of Commerce how many companies were formed in Serbia, small and medium-sized, those new enterprises he promised to be formed; how much I know, and I have many friends in over 100 cities and not one more have I met to say - I am the new owner of a company or new director of a company, which I have formed myself and my family. Instead of providing loans by the Serbian government at the end of this year, which has promised those who have lost their jobs, to form small and medium-sized enterprises, they are now reducing the profit tax, and on the other hand the question of how many businesses in Serbia are doing positively. A very small number of businesses in Serbia are doing positive business, but it's marketing, you know when it's heard that the profit tax is reduced from 20% to 14%, that's very good. Yesterday's law, which was passed, is very sharp and, when applied, those companies, which have kind of done positive business, will do business with loss. They should be stricter measures, (I speak as a businessman) and should, when it comes to tax policy, the authorities implementing tax policy to do as prescribed, but first we have to create conditions. Next, you mention the gray economy. All right, the gray economy when it comes to existing businesses and existing STRs and service shops, but if the gray economy is applied to the market where people sell... Those people who sell on cardboard boxes lost their jobs. Minister, you want to listen to me, please, because I'd like you to answer me. I'm telling you. These DOS deputies don't care anyway, because they know how they're going to vote. They are interested in coming here and enrolling in the diaries, getting paid, and me, Serbian citizens and the opposition are interested in how Serbian citizens will survive. It was promised for those people who lost their jobs in 1999 and 2000 to be returned to factories. I don't know that a single worker has been returned to a factory; but, on the other hand, these people will have to bow down and can't feed their families in the markets anymore, as they have done so far. Furthermore, you said in one sentence that agricultural producers have to buy computers, because this way they will be able to sell their products via the Internet. Obviously, you don't know the material condition of farmers, you don't know their options, but you have to do something about agriculture, and you have to mention it. On the other hand, you imported a large amount of meat, you and your government, and directly influenced the fall in meat prices in the markets, because a large quantity was imported from abroad. So we are competing with our agricultural producers in Serbia. As far as cooperatives are concerned, the only way for a bad business company that has campaign jobs is for 10-15 workers who will be employed by the company for two or three months. You are now, on the basis of a proposal from your law, making it impossible for cooperatives and employers to cooperate in the way they've cooperated so far, because you haven't created certain conditions that one company can normally work. If one company has campaign jobs for two and three months, it has to hire someone through a youth cooperative, because it can't hire a person in a permanent working relationship and that they contribute 72% of the salaries each month, and on the other hand it can't fire him after three months and say, "You know what, you don't need a working organisation anymore, even though by collective contract every year, the director, or the employer, can fire 10% of the workers, declare them a surplus workforce." When it comes to sports, Mr. Minister, the Serbian government does not have a minister for sport and the Serbian government does not take care of sports. It is okay to commit those clubs, or those sports where there are large transfers, such as football, and basketball and we from the Serbian Unity Party have nothing against it, but not to introduce such obligations when it comes to sports like this that could not have been supported and donors to live and practice. It is known that there are more successful clubs in Serbia, and on the other hand they have no help from the Serbian government. Instead of liberating sponsors and donors when they invest in those sports, they're not free to pay anything. You answer me, and I couldn't see it in the bill, if they were released. If one sponsor and donor helps one handball or football club, amateur, in the village, because the point is, Mr. Minister, that we get young people off the wrong path of drugs and alcohol and provide them with conditions. When you provide the conditions for one sport, then mass is created, and when mass is created, then the result is created, and that's the point. I couldn't see that the Serbian government has created a condition so far when it comes to sports. The Serbian Unity Party expected that at the end of this year you would propose and present a bill like this, to cut tax rates to what would buy and get citizens, when it comes to political points. You see, in public all along, you have presented that MPs do not want to come to the session, not to reduce the rate of sales taxes, and thus Serbian citizens suffer and pay a much higher price, what life supplies are. That's not true. If our amendments are accepted, the Serbian Unity Party has several amendments, because it is a matter of life supplies and not for citizens to say - here are those from the Serbian Unity Party who do not want to reduce the rate of sales tax, we will vote for this law. As for profit taxes and other bill proposals, we believe that it is only demagogue and that businessmen, those who do and who do some work, know that this law will not increase their production, will not increase the number of workers in their company and the wages in businesses will not be increased when this law applies, because yesterday's law is binding and it is very rigorous, it cannot be applied what you want. Yes, but to the harm of employers and workers who are employed by businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24296	The word has a folk emissary Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24297	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a package of amendments and amendments to the tax laws. I think these exemptions that are quite good in the proposal, because they will help a few, but not in general, a better economic environment, and I think they also charge taxes; lower tax rates generally speed up tax collection, because taxpayers then simply run away from tax ejaculation and enter tax pay regularity. However, it seems to me, without the value added tax law, then there would be one overall tax reform from which the level of tax charging would be raised significantly. What kind of economic policy would the Government of the Republic of Serbia be at this point we cannot say, but over the past two years they have spoken of that the social welfare in Serbia has remained significantly compromised, that no effects have been achieved through a tax policy that will help and that this has mainly been compensated by donations and other forms of income, such as revenues from privatisation or some other type of income. What's interesting is I can say that these tax cuts are good and that they should be welcomed. What I don't think is right, I don't think any incentives should be given afterwards. First of all, I think of incentives in the area of corporate tax, where it enables business owners who have bought enterprises and are in some period of credit to give them a tax exemption from profits. I don't think that's very good. So, some have raised a lot of favourable loans in front of the state so they can buy businesses. Secondly, if we give additional tax incentives here in profit cuts for the level of the annual war, then they are absolutely privileged taxpayers in Serbia. There is no guarantee, no obligation that they will indeed do everything they signed in that period of 6 or 7 years. This does not mean that they will employ 100 new workers, it does not mean that they will continue to deal with the work they started, and which they did in the first tax year. In the following tax year, by changing the founding act or by changing the powers they possess at the Trade Court, they may change the form of activity and reduce the significant workforce. I don't think that's a good solution. It seems to me to be one of the most significant distractions this set of laws would raise to the highest level. I think it's a mistake and we don't need to create incentives for that kind of taxpayer. They are privileged in the privatisation process by creating conditions so they can get favourable loans from banks. So not everyone can get credit. They had to offer some special conditions. What are the conditions, I don't want to talk about it. The question is what kind of capital they have, whether in the previous period, the previous 4-5 years, their tax balances are the cleanest, or whether they were paying taxes on a regular basis, and how many tax incentives there were, in that type of taxpayers. All of this can be one of the factors that should slow down in this area of such a kind of obligor and the amount of their privileges. Other taxpayers don't have that kind of privilege. What happens to companies that won't be in the privatisation process during that period? They will work under the same conditions, they will pay the profits in the same way they have paid so far, at the same rates, even though they will employ labour, but they will not reach the level of those 6 million or 600 million mentioned here in the laws. Therefore, I don't think that tax incentive in these regulations is justified. What's good is, these are these reduction rates. It's a good thing there's still one round of procedures, although I think we suggested it a year and a half ago, that lowering the rate will raise the level of tax collection. What you should be hearing about are textbooks, books, children's clothing, shoes, and equipment. I don't think it's such a tax betrayal and it's not one of the key tax forms that the state feeds most on taxes. I think that, for all the national and strategic reasons spoken of from this pay phone of all MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia, we would achieve one full effect if we treated it that way. We talked in the previous period about various parafiscalities. We have them with the students now, when we got them to spend this much money on their tuition. All 20-25% of students are in state studies. It's a well-known practice, they can piss off university professors as much as they want, that they make their budget incomes, personal incomes, they fill themselves up by working on various private universities. I don't think they exactly file tax returns and show their income on the other side. It seems to me that way we'd help, the tax evac would be reduced, and that other thing would happen. So we wouldn't have these riots of students, even hunger strikes, which are not suitable and are not necessary to Serbia at this time. It seems to me that this is our future, which is likely to replace all of us at some point and sit in these benches. This package as a whole makes full sense, because it will significantly help the budget. I guess we'll have a chance in December to see that level of increase in budget revenues, because that's the only way we can go towards reducing tax rates. If you have a higher level of income, then you can lower tax rates. It seems to me a good practice that needs to be assessed positively. It should not be politicised in one way or another, because taxes exist beyond political parties and are necessary to the state, regardless of who is in power or in opposition. We can discuss the level of tax rates and how to collect taxes. If you really look at the essentials of this observation about this unnecessary incentive for business owners, because it is enough to be able to buy a company as a natural person, from an accounting value, it is much lower than the real market value, so you still don't have to pay a tax on the transfer of absolute rights at 5%, although every citizen pays it when he buys real estate in Serbia. You don't pay here. It seems to me that this incentive puts them in a layer of absolutely privileged citizens, who would almost, if there were no sales tax or taxes on services, be totally excluded from tax duties. It seems to me that this is not good and that the government has made one mistake, in my view, which is not good for Serbia's future, especially not good for the future of a business environment in Serbia, because it creates two categories of taxpayers; one absolutely privileged, quite narrow and perhaps only 200 taxpayers at this time or another 200 to New Year's. What about the other privates, what about the other directors or social enterprises who won't have the opportunity to enter a tax exemption category like this? If there was a solution and this was withdrawn, it seems to me that this complete package would have one absolute fullness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24298	The People's Messenger, Natasha Milojevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24299	Dear Mrs. Micic, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Minister Djelic... He deserves it, he deserves it. [[Sagar.]] Discussing tax laws, or proposals for amendments and supplementing tax laws, is always an opportunity for at least two things. One is that the contribution to the discussion and the amendments improve the proposals in question and that all taxpayers, therefore both the economy and the citizens of Serbia, are processed by some useful changes. The opportunity for another thing, for demagogy, is also obvious. It's just amazing that every time we have to attend tracts with practically naked populist examples. Generally, the amendments and the addition of tax laws are more than good, more than welcome and at the right time. They show that after a year and a half since the first tax package was applied, there are certain results. They are felt by all those who are budget users, and they are not only in the sphere of health, education, state administration, but also in culture. No one mentioned this area today, and I have a special duty to mention this activity, the work in the field of culture. We Social Democratic Party MPs in this home have three principles that we believe are absolutely important when debated and when tax laws are passed. The first principle is the proportionate tax determination of the relative economic strength of the taxpayers. Simply put, taxpayers and (business and citizens) should be economically strong enough to meet tax obligations. The second is the principle of progressive taxation - simply put, we advocate who has more and pays more. It is a social democratic principle, and as such the most valid in developed countries of social democracy such as Scandinavian countries. In his exposé, the third principle, which Minister Djelic said somewhere as the leading one, is the social element, i.e. the principle of applying tax laws that will positively reflect social policy. We find that they had in mind writers of these changes and complementing all three elements, but not entirely. With our remarks and amendments, we seek to satisfy all three elements fully. I'm not going to talk extensively about amendments and additions. There will be an opportunity to talk about it when we have a discussion in particular. Now I will only give principle notes, conditionally stated remarks, to the texts of amendments and additions in question. Minister Djelic mentioned the social element, saying that care was taken to improve standards. Serbian citizens have been bombed over the past week by statements that, behold, the postponement of the assembly's debate is actually delaying their benefits. I don't agree with that, and I don't think it's delayed for seven or six days. I think that the quality debate and the amendments actually improves the whole approach and that all of us who have constructively come to this thing will contribute to making the improvement visible, lasting and evenly distributed. If the application of this package of laws really improves the standard, and what will be measured over a certain period of time, then we will not have the opportunity to discuss in more detail some of us wrong or incomprehensible things, especially those relating to the Tax on Profits Act in certain particulars, then the Transport Tax on Transport in certain specifics and in the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, also in certain specifics. The second principle that led you to this tax policy will stimulate the economy, i.e. the development of the economy and in particular two aspects, which are employment or the creation of new jobs and will encourage investment, we recognize in many solutions, and in some solutions we do not recognize, so we will talk about it. The third principle, that this tax policy develops and determines, especially the law that we discussed yesterday, financial discipline and develops competition (and we hope that this leads to the abolition of the grey economy, or if not the abolition, then to the overcoming of the white economy, if it is opposed to gray) is also recognised in the particular application of the law we talked about yesterday, or the tax administration law. What happened yesterday, we're done, let's go to today. The law on profit tax - you won't mind what I repeat once again, the social democratic approach sees that the reduction from 20% to 14% may be cosmetic. Why? For now and the current state of business, because the economy, unfortunately, does not show profit. Whether it will stimulate the economy of such a legal measure to have profit, and then to show profit, that's the question. You won't be surprised if I say that we generally advocate that the tax on transport is reduced from 20% to 17%, that there is no separation of certain products, that it is also a social or social democratic approach and that we suggest it for the 3%. You know that we are in the reconstruction of the state and that federal tax of 3%, and that the military is in the phase of restructuring and reconstruction is, but that's for those 3% mathematically said, so we could... And you'll explain it. We have a question regarding the taxation of athletes. That's where I have to be extremely honest and tell you that the explanation you've given almost doesn't make sense. Why, which is a motive for taxing at the lowest rate not sports in general or sport activity, but what is called receiving top athletes and achieving revenue from transactions or, peopleally, selling players. Is this kind of activity in sports, which is somewhere in the gray sphere supposed to be translated into a sphere of white business, worth being taxed at the lowest rate? What's the motive for this kind of decision? The income tax -- we've already said -- we're pushing for progressive taxation. I will give an example that I was reminded of by members of the Social Democratic Party, which are agricultural producers. I was told that the land tax, the hectare of the highest quality, has not been re-valorated since 1996. He's got 92 dinars per hectare. It is said that by reducing the tax from 20% to 14%, the tax will not be more than 50 dinars, and then it is further said that, by some rule of administration, by respecting the principle of rationality, solutions will not even be issued in this case because they are more expensive than 50 dinars. We'd also ask an explanation for this, if I could give our farmers an answer, no matter what I'm not an expert on it. Will 50 dinar solutions be issued? My colleagues will talk, my colleague Christodulo will talk about something that we absolutely disagree with, which is discrimination, and in particular we disagree with discrimination that is recognised in the practical abolition of tax credits or that status for working in student cooperatives. Yes, we recognize the problem and it is true that through student cooperatives, employees who have long passed the student period, or the one who is legitimate, are also employed in the fifth decade of their lives, but let it be regulated by some other legal regulations and let that control be done in another way. This is how students and youngsters are fully discriminated on who thus make their only income, and many of them are also incomes to support during their studies or during their education. They were brought into a situation to be discriminated against, say, by all those who work under the deed, and why? Which justifies this kind of discrimination, except for this argument that we heard, which is that through student cooperatives, money laundering is possible, again to use that colloktial term. There is another kind of remark: we believe it is almost nonsensical to cut and cut taxes entirely to those who participate in auction privatisation. They are already the ones who collect, or have some income gain, from dividends, while participating in auction sales are further exempt from the value of purchased shares. Is that how we stimulate only some who can participate...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24300	People's MP, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24301	I'll be done in 20 seconds, thank you. So do we stimulate only some who can participate in auction privatisation and thus give them additional reliefs, and others who cannot practically, conditionally speaking, punish or do something else? We'd also like to hear the answer to that question. We welcome, and welcome the whole series of civil society associations, the decision to abolish the issue tax in renting housing and business space, knowing the background of these activities, knowing the background or demographic structure of everyone you have called - the landlady and the owner, but in many cases it is the only source of income. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24302	Is there another jj from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary tax groups? No, I don't. ) Representative of the Government, Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24303	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to answer a few questions or give some clarifications about this tax package. I'd say, if we look at the first question that's been asked in this domain and we start from this last one, and that's such a little deeper question, should we give any additional incentive to those who need to participate in auction privatisation? The change in property relations is one of the most complex things that can happen, if we look at the experiences that have happened, not only in those constant examples, I think of countries in transition that we always talk about, but also in those developed countries where several major transactions have always been followed by great controversy. There's no more sensitive question than this, as far as change in your own relationships, no matter what that model is, to avoid controversy. As one of the authors of one of the first programs that mixed the voucher privatisation with the concentration of ownership through investment funds in Poland, I can tell you that simply, between those two extremes, the possibility of entering and paying only with the money being paid at once and only respecting what the money is made, through some competition and that is the same principle which we are now quite close to in Serbia. On the other hand, there's one free distribution through the so-called. We can see that both models (j have both advantages and disadvantages). Now I'm going back to this tax matter, I'd like to show, maybe it's a little paradoxical, this provision is actually something that goes towards greater social justice. Of course, by Caricating a provision like this, someone malicious would want to say -- so you're giving those who already have money some more tax benefits. So, to those who already have, you're still cutting their taxes. For two reasons, that's not true. First of all, the thing is, as far as our domestic investors are concerned, the closer we get to that clean cash payment model, right away and once, I guess it's pretty clear to everyone that it's a narrow circle of people who can impose themselves and come to property. So, this provision is something that needs to push a little further away from that extreme and especially what are small and medium-sized enterprises, to enable people who may not have that cash at some point, in the amount needed, and therefore will go on to pay for the wars so that they can get to that situation tomorrow when those wars are paid off, they will not be "muffled" and they themselves in their own personal tax situation in paying dividend taxes. By the way, by the way, (this is the second reason) we have today an unequal situation between natural and legal persons in the form of participation in these auction privatisations. And to recap, this provision actually needs to expand the circle of people who can participate in auction privatisation. To repeat, it is there that this property transformation is not only open to those who are already entering with some capital, but it should also enable some younger ones, and perhaps some others today who do not have that initial capital, to be able to be able because they have an idea, energy, project and desire, to be these transformers of our economic situation. For those who think that we can be a market economy and, to use that word that has long been here taboo - capitalist society, in fact, with a continental European lifestyle, certainly not some ultra liberal one, it seems to me, it will always be a kind of minority in us, to see this as a possibility that someone who lives in Kruševec, Leskovac, some other city, maybe someone who was not a director, but who enjoys trust, is well known as an expert and who will be able to gather around them a team who wants to buy a given company at that moment, this will allow these people (and we think of them too) to do so, and that those on their personal tax plan will not be suffocated. So far from being an additional incentive for those who already have some money today, but this should expand the circle of those who can participate, it seems to me that this controversy, which will always be present with us, will be further reduced. As for the cooperatives themselves, when we proposed this amendment, everyone told me -- they're not going to pass, you'll see, that lobby is one of the strongest lobbys that exist in Serbia, and politics got involved and political parties have their cooperatives, and they're funding themselves, and don't happen to think that this is going to be possible through this home, because that 10% commission is the way many of them finance themselves, including some other organizations. I can't, I can't take away the impression, given that this initiative has taken the number of interventions and pressures, the suggestion of being well-intentioned to give up on behalf of 20 annual young people who in this way won't be able to get to that minimum, to survive the bread, and not to say from which direction it was coming, which may have convinced me entirely what those who were well-intentioned and who were giving me these tips, but I have to say that I was quite intrigued. Yes, of course, there must be a way that our young people while they're working have the opportunity to get additional jobs, but this system has entered the metastasy. Is it possible that associations of these cooperatives now, faster and better come, they say -- well, well, it doesn't have 10%, here's 5%, we'll clear the lines, we'll see, yeah, it'll be better, we swear. So it was last year when we were thinking about this amendment, but we didn't bring it in because of those others and that formulation we had. What are we saying? Every record of the tax police in the most successful and wealthy of our businesses finds the biggest problems, and I'm not talking about that very often either the husband or the husband of someone who works in the financial police, see surprises, running some youthful cooperative. At the very top of 12 youth cooperatives, I will not give the names of those many well-known companies there who have used and abused it to the end; and look at just what is happening today in Serbia and you will understand why employment through cooperatives is not being abolished at all at this point. And on the contrary, what you said, you just lose that ultra-privileged thing that existed according to the deed contract. So the effective tax rate goes to 16%, when you include the normized costs, it's 10%, and now it's 16%. It's not that bad. In addition, I can say that we will have an initiative to change that federal law today, and tomorrow in the Republic, where we will still have this one small position, which is undefined, where it is said (I don't know what member it is) that in exceptional conditions it can be accepted that some people, who are no longer young, can be employed. And that's Serbia: there are hundreds of thousands of people who are not being paid a single penny for their pension today, and that's how we prepare a generation of people who will be disappointed. They'll come and, given their age, they'll think they're ready to get a pension, and then some of them from the PIO Fund will tell them, I'm sorry, but you've been working on cooperatives for ten years, that's worth zero to you. And when we know that we have to bind our pension rights more to what's being paid, which necessarily means that we have to count the whole career, then we know that this is also one element that needs to be adopted now, to start preparing the environment to do so. Sixteen since it's not some rate that needs to devalue all these efforts right now. And let's see now, I'm really interested in whether this lobby is so strong in one way or another, when that young student's face is shown, who will suddenly run out of minimums to survive, and I trust that it just won't happen, when that matter is better arranged, too. I'm sure at the end of next year we'll probably be able to offer for those who are truly young people, who are being funded, an even more favourable way. But simply, the metastasy is so high, the evasion is so much that we have to intervene here urgently. As far as progressive taxation is concerned, progressive taxation is a feature of all European continental tax systems. You could say, if you look at history, and it's always interesting to look at the last 10 years, how the feet go, what the country does, what the effects of it all are. Not to mention, all the transition countries that started, and that's early in the '90s, and let me remind you: our tax system at that time had very high progressive rates, and what we have today is also 10, 15 or 20 is already lower than what existed at the beginning of those years. The marginal rate in most large Western countries is about 40-45%. You have a few examples here. In the West, those marginal rates are shrinking, because, simply, they're a little more wealthy and they have more money to hire different advisers to avoid that tax, tax collectors know well that high rates kill taxes; because then the incentive for an ejaculation is so big that rarely control can stand up to it. In this case, if we look at the last ten years in transition countries, Russia is also a very interesting team. She went along with many others, with very high marginal rates, and we actually came to a proportionality. So, not a degressive tax, but in Russia, we've now reached a rate that is simply proportional and low, 13%. And what happened this year -- for the first time in Russia's history, you had a number of taxpayers, because at the same time they had what we wanted to establish here, to strengthen that discipline; the Russians began to pay that tax and the public finances of Russia were in great shape. Of course, primarily because the price of oil is somewhat higher; that's when you look at Russia's economic performance, that's the key factor that determines almost everything, but also because financial discipline increases in many ways. The proposal here is for progressiveness to remain, to be 14%, then 24.5%, and thus, with the strengthening of this financial discipline, we will be able to have, as many as next year, not 3,280 people, and then some MPs say, I almost heard this MP, so were we stupid enough to sign up here? No one else checked in, at least the ones who are really wealthy. Next year with that more appropriate rate than 24.5%, we'll make real progress, then a few dozen, and I hope several hundred thousand of our citizens pay income tax. And then, let's see where the demagogue is, is it better to have 24.5% of the marginal rate and then have several hundred million dinars, hopefully a billion of the tax charged, and, as the head of the DSS parliamentary group said a little earlier, that our fiscal system would be a little more appropriate to a more developed country, where we don't just have those indirect, but also direct taxes, which are fairer, because then they really go in economic strength, that their participation increases than those very weak barely 64 million dinars for this tax. It seems to me that this balance, mild progressiveness, at this point with a marginal rate slightly lower than 25%, is the right way to introduce order and to have tens and several hundred thousand people pay us, instead of having some rate that is somewhere near 35-36%, where then the incentive to evacuate is significantly stronger, and at that point the struggle of the tax administration to establish that progressiveness is lost in advance. Let's see how this is going to be next year and over some period we'll see that the idea of progressiveness, which I'm convinced of, the vast majority of our people, and I think of this home, no matter how much form and its expression tomorrow, will be attached to it. I don't think we should ever get to progressiveness, because this rate and this degree of progression is the right thing for us. I just want to point out that as far as oil is concerned (now we move to the excise part) in fact the reduction is not what is indicated, because the figure that is in law is the initial, nominal amount in dinars, which has been harmonised for the last year and a half days (something more now), due to inflation growth. The proposed reduction is actually from 71.86 dinars 45, so it's a significant reduction in excise duty on oil, because you see too much tax here that kills taxes. There is Modrica and how she profited through smuggling into our territory and our producers, in Kraševec, were particularly affected by the fact that our excise duty was really too high. That, to be honest, was most likely at the time with various calculations, to avoid any other abuses I would not like to indulge. She just jumped out of some average region and, without a surprise, it attracted a huge amount of smuggling to us. That's why it's very important. As you can see, here it's shrinking by about 26 dinars per litre, and that's very good. As far as weapons are concerned, it's hard to reach reliable figures, I just want to say that according to official records, in one country that has some 7.5 million inhabitants (I'm talking about Serbia after everything that's happened), according to the censors, we have more than 2 million pieces of weapons that are registered. You're wondering how many aren't registered -- I don't have those statistics, I guess only the U.S. has more guns per capita, and whoever's talking about this wonderful Serbian tradition, let's look at our daily papers, so let's see when the son killed his father, when his father killed his family, when someone breaks his movie, reaches out for what he's holding in the house, we wonder why, and then there's this huge family tragedy. That's why the arms tax should stay. The only talk here is about those retired citizens from the MUP-ai Army of Yugoslavia, whose profession it was, and who often had very low pensions and had to, just because they got an end of their career as a gift, to pay that tax. I think it's realistic to continue to collect that tax. If you ask me, it should be bigger, but at the same time, then we have a problem with (what we see today) that some are checking out weapons and one part of it is moving into illegal, unfortunately. That's why we only have to release this section and that segment. As for hunters, since there was this initiative -- so they already had one significant incentive and release last year, and I think that's quite enough; and, if it's by letters, I don't think we should move on. Two more things I'd like to say myself, and they're about some questions like that. If you have a unique rate of sales tax, it is difficult for someone to disagree with that, that the sales tax itself, especially the sales tax, is difficult to be fair, because it is difficult, no matter how hard we try to make exceptions, to avoid in particular in services, in some segments, multi-phase taxation, which is not good, because it violates neutrality. The question is - whether to exempt from paying sales taxes on services and legal persons for issuing business space. I'd like to set an example -- and these most expensive hotels, which betray some shops, should be released. Is that what we need? Is that fair? If the question is asked, why are some of the good that's part of the so-called. Nelastic baskets, of course this wasn't done because of the pressures of these or those lobbies, but further spread, if we think about what existed before - take children's clothes, we'll remember that screaming minister, the director who quickly invented and some sizes, for example. 14a, since the children had a maximum of 14, then 14b, 14d, 14c, and soon the Government of Divac could dress up as children's clothes. That's how a big hole is created in that system. This list we have is in line with the sixth directive of the European Union and with something that is our reality in terms of what the base is -- nutrition, medicines and communals. If you look at our citizens, our food, medicines and communals are these three things that are of paramount importance to them, especially that part of the consumer basket that we're talking about. We'll talk about some things more when they come to the order of the amendment and when we start to discuss in particular, but I'll comment on some of the amounts of our economic activity and the impact of tax policy on that economic activity. What was literally zero tax on corporate profits, however much our Accounting Act allowed, and today, and that initiative by the federal government is a good step towards tightening and in this effort to make real profits, we almost charged nothing in corporate profits in 2000, but in 2001 it was about two billion dinars, and this year we will charge about 4.5 billion dinars. All that when one number of companies is in a situation of great difficulty. A large part of the company, although we are returning to the basic philosophy of the new fiscal balance, says - in our interest it is to make a real profit, and there is everything positively connected, because we finally have banks with potential that allow them to lend us loans and they will not accept double accounting: one for the tax collector, and the other for bankers who are much more favourable of course. Especially in this segment that started to stand on its feet, or everyone will be in the interest of showing maximum profit knowing that the rate will be 14% and an effective rate, if you look at the additional benefits we give, it will certainly be between 5 and 7%. For many of our companies, it will be even lower. In that case, we will have a more realistic picture of our economy, with these tax incentives -- the effective rate of payment will be lower, and yet, with all this we predict that this measure will cost us some 3-4 billion dinars. Literally in nominal amount, and even in real terms, we expect that with these incentives the company's profit tax will be slightly more charged next year. At the same time, there was a strong incentive for these companies to show the right situation, so they could get these tax incentives, because if they don't show profits, they can't even get these tax incentives from employment and from investments, and they can't get credit, so it's all tightly connected: a lower rate - a boost - a charge - a suppression of the gray economy, and thus that wheel should spin and that we have a much higher tax base, in fact a better charge even than there was. But only if it's all going at the same time. If we look at the economic situation, the fact is that at this point we charge nominally two-and-a-half times the corporate tax, and that means something absolutely. If you look at the final accounts for the first six months of the PDO, no matter how much space there is for finging and for the various elements that have been withdrawn from our accounting for years, we can conclude that the losses have been significantly reduced in our economy, and that the gain that has been insignificant has now been significantly increased. I'll get you a follow-up to this discussion and some numbers so you can see what this is all about. If you look at banks, where there was a huge hole, today they are, at least by what they show, at one positive zero, so we have a much healthier banking sector that will be a good basis for our real sector. When you look at business activity (I conclude it, and I come out of that strict story about tax policy), Serbia had one economic growth of 5.9% in 2000, 5.5% in 2001 and 4% will be real growth this year, above inflation growth, and we expect 5% for next year and years to come afterwards. It's the fastest economic growth in Europe. Yeah, of course, from low branches, so the rates mean less. Much more, in absolute terms, when a large economy increases by 1% than our so narrowed economy, which is only 1/3 of what it was before, in 1989 it was $29 billion in gross national income, and in 2000 it was $10 billion. That's the price of the former regime. It's the price of everything that's happened in the last ten years. Now, if you look at the same industrial production, the figures show (and that's our statistical apparatus, because it hasn't reformed in these 10 years, and that must be one of the priorities), that industrial production will increase by about 2% to 3% this year. Gross national income will increase even more because the economy is not just industry, you have services and trade, you have social activities. So, what are we saying? When you look at the figures of industrial production, a little bit more detail, you see the decline in bread production by 25%. Speaking of something that's insatiable with us, that's the amount of bread we eat. The statistical apparatus only monitors social enterprises and not the following of new or slightly older private bakers, which more and more of them take that market, because they have something more tasty and cheaper, which our statistics do not register, although it is done and there are no ways of measuring the sample that will allow it to cover it. I'd like to give you two more examples about that. Apparently, brick production dropped 16% and crep production increased by 25%. Because bricks can be produced in smaller plants and there's a lot of things that don't register. Take, for example. meat production. Our official statistics register the decline in meat production, but, at the same time, if you look at the processing, they grow significantly. So the statistics here don't really show the whole situation, and especially when you look at electricity consumption; in the last week, when it's abnormally hot for this season, especially when people who are heating up on electricity are not using it, we see that electricity consumption continues to grow. In this way, you can see indirectly, and through many other things that I could say, that what is drawn up as the growth of our 5% economy, the real growth, which will be the fastest in Europe next year, is absolutely something that can be realized and that it is in no way true when it is said that our economic situation is hopeless and that there is no shift. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24304	National MP Natasa Milojevic, second in line, reported as SDP's parliamentary group president.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24305	Mrs. Komic, dear colleagues, dear Minister Djelic, I would not like to not comment on comments and answers because I would not like to make public a position on this home in which, according to the claim, there is an unprincipled lobbying when it comes to student cooperatives, youth cooperatives and how to finance and pay taxes. In fact, if the exact premise that has been said -- said a friend of Minister Djelic that this house will not let that kind of solution pass, then we can agree on an explanation. But I'm starting to assume that this premise isn't true. Then we come to the following: youth and student cooperatives, as the name tells them, serve through them students and school students, those who are in high schools, work to raise funds, additional funds or basic means to support them during their schooling. What are irregularities in the operation and in the work of youth and student cooperatives, called popular money laundering or, as is said, the financing of political organisations, which is inadmissible, can be sanctioned by valid or new legal regulations. Let's not allow discrimination by justifying it to economic or financial discipline reasons, you'll agree on that. So, lobby, as far as the Social Democratic Party is concerned, it doesn't exist. There's a principle that we're against discrimination, especially this. Secondly, if there is a lobby, why is there no strong lobby among us that supports participants in auction privatisation, but is strong, if any, in some other places. Therefore, we are against discrimination and those working through student and youth cooperatives, as well as those participating in auction privatisation, whether it is negative or positive discrimination. I hope I made myself clear. I thank you for your exhaustive answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24306	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of MPs, according to statements for a word in the joint debate on tax laws. The first to be reported is MP Marin Kresic, followed by MP Milos Todorovic. The total time for MP Marin Kresic is under Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24307	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the presidency, ministers, I'll be less than five minutes. There are three reasons why I answered my word. The first is to show that the congregation speaker is not only a place for criticism but also commendation. I am not sure that the Democratic Centre has made it clear and loud that the reform line, which is reflected by all the tax laws that have been passed so far, is something that we are absolutely behind and that we support in general. My impression is that this team is practically making a mosaic for which there is a vision and every pebble as a law or regulation that has been passed leads infallibly towards that goal. The second reason is purely formal with regard to the agenda, so we say, because we will no longer answer the question, that when it comes to this package of laws we will vote in line with the proposals and support them without any relevant suggestions and that is fine. The third reason is more public. So, yesterday we criticised some of the solutions in one law that doesn't belong to this package, which is the Tax Administration and Procedure Act, and I just want to make a distinction between these two days. So what we support today doesn't mean that we still don't think that in that mosaic these stones will be certain authoritarian, non-democratic and autistic things that will remain in that law are one stain, a little bit darker, in that mosaic, and I hope that there will be wisdom and desire to change that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24308	The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, followed by the folk MP, Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24309	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are considering six draft laws on amendments and amendments to tax laws adopted early last year. They all have a common explanation that they should be brought within the framework of a package of measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia that envisions a comprehensive reform of the general business regime in the Republic of Serbia. Like, there's something going on in the Republic of Serbia, doing business, and again, the government is doing something about some reforms. The only measure the government has really taken for two years is to remain in power, whether control of the National Assembly or control of parliamentary mandates, whether by unhealthy compromise with former coalition partners. First of all, we have a bill to change the rate of sales tax. Last year, Minister Djelic insisted that any traffic must be taxed at a single 20% rate, without exception. Now he gives in and lifts that tax on so-called, in my opinion, election goods: oil and sugar. You tell me, Mr. Djelic, whether it's truly done, or if it's your assessment that your rating, your rating, and your government, has fallen very badly, so now it's cheaping, which usually means a lot to the people and at least five dinars, you abuse for some of your marketing purposes. Serbian Unity Party MPs think that's exactly what it is. The same law on sales tax, and to God, to curb the grey economy, introduces a fiscal register for the transport of products and services. This is how much spending will drive most of the store owners into the gray economy. In addition to being very expensive, at least one cashier will be required to work on the register, the cash register will collect traffic and establish a new tax base, which, with rigorous tax rates, will force the store owner to sign off and find himself on the flea market. Then, it was threatened that customers with a fine of 1,000 dinars had to have on the street and show the inspector a bill of purchase or service. Imagine, I now go, say, to the hairdresser, shave, buy a burger and beer at the store, and then while I'm eating, the tax inspector comes and asks me for it, and that citizen is not a taxpayer at all, so it's unclear why he would work with the tax police or tax collectors when he's not a taxpayer. How are you gonna do that? If you know, then explain. Finally, in this part, it sounds ominous that agricultural producers on the markets have been freed from obligations, and have been dragging the fiscal till they sell their agricultural products, such as cucumbers and beans. In the next supplement of the law, it will obviously not be avoided, because if you had no intention of doing so, of course you wouldn't have listed it in this passage of the law. Why are you even instructing farmers if you have no intention of putting them in that list in the following changes and additions? The draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law proposes to reduce the single tax rate on corporate profits from 20% to 14%, to be the lowest in the region and to stimulate investors to invest in Serbia. Mr. Minister, it's too late for Marko to arrive in Kosovo. This measure made some sense a year ago, when Serbia still had such a reputation and credibility. Disputes in the ruling coalition and the unfettered struggle for power have led to the fact that no one wants to invest in Serbia anymore. The foreign investor is attracted to a solid economic environment, the rule of law and a stable political system, and certainly not to argue over parliamentary mandates or failed presidential elections. A special pearl in this necklace of tax alloys presents a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. Who has no bad memory will easily be reminded of the big debate over the adoption of this law at the beginning of last year. Many normal people have well-intentionedly written in the newspaper, and fewer MPs have discussed in this assembly that trophy weapons and weapons received on a retirement gift should not be taxed. No, no and no, he was a persistent minister, Djelic. For everything a man owns, he has to pay his taxes, he literally said. So, the minister said, by the end of 2001, we will enter Europe at a large door and with fanfare sounds. It seems that they are still current, Mr. Minister, the verses of Branko Miljkovic - "He who does not listen to the wind will listen to the storm." Whom did Mr. Djelic now listen to when he proposes to abolish the tax on rusty guns and old, rotten and pierced wooden boats? A smart man should, Mr. Minister, be at the right time or never. On the line of memory and correction of the poor, there is also a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the income tax of citizens, as Article 5 proposes a reduction of the tax rate to the incomes from independent activity from 20% to 14%. Thank God, that tax rate was never supposed to be 20%. The reasoning of the legislator states that the reduction of the tax rate encourages the development of entrepreneurship. So last year, the government and you, Mr. Minister, were deliberately suffocating entrepreneurship with huge rates of 20%. In the same law, I have to go back to the athletes, they've come to the turn of athletes and sports workers. They're going to be very taxed with a very high tax rate. It doesn't matter that athletes are the only ones in this country, almost the only ones, who are successful people and prominent ambassadors abroad. The government and the minister will disperse athletes all over the world, and then we'll probably just admire government experts. This law, apart from athletes, ladies and gentlemen, according to the MPs of the Soviet Union, also sacrificed members of youth cooperatives who occasionally work at a company. According to the latest report, there are 250,000 young people working through youth and student cooperatives, whose position by adopting this law will be dramatically worsened. Instead of the current 9.6%, these people will be paying 20% for their earnings in the future, so the tax on their earnings will be higher than the employee tax, which is 14%. However, this measure against youth is stimulated by employment, the legislator is wise. Hit the minister in the youth, and everything else seems to be missing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24310	The word has a folk letter from Olga Kircanski. The next person to be declared is MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24311	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the president of our Social Democratic Party parliamentary group mostly spoke about all aspects to which our objections and our praise for the amendments and additions to this tax code package will apply. I just need to welcome the fact that in these changes and additions, too, it is respected that tax policy is being put into the role of achieving economic and social policy, which is, in most cases, a fair approach towards taxpayers from the point of view of its economic power and, in these changes and additions to tax policy, we encourage investment and new employment. What perhaps no one has mentioned here, and what I wanted to remind myself of, is that, when proposing changes and additions and amendments to the proposals themselves, there must be no distortion of the balance between inflows and budget spending. Let me remind you that no one here is talking about tax policy being only in the function of budgetary needs, but that in the vast majority of cases we must adapt the opportunities of society, that the inflow into the budget is capable of being implemented. Also, to remind myself that tax policy now needs to enter a more stable phase and that it has some continuity, that we don't pass some laws that we know in advance that we're going to have to change, and also that we don't make such regulations that we know they won't be able to comply with. In that sense, they happen to us in addition to tax evasion and other situations, such as the ejaculation. I have to remind you of the conditions in which we've been doing business for the past ten, fifteen years, in which most people in the economy, most people in any enterprise, have made a very good trade that, without violating tax regulations, avoid being found in a situation to be a taxpayer. In this way we reduced consumption, thus reducing production, in this way we corresponded to such measures that the taxpayers would not be at all. The amendments we've made can be divided into some three groups. That's what my colleague Micic was talking about. I'd only hold on to this one time. We have given an amendment in which we wanted to specify and make that article more specific, not to be ambiguous, just interpreted, because whenever there are two interpretations of the same provision, there is always room for its avoidance, or for, depending on how you interpret it, two different approaches to it. This specifically applies to software licenses. There are software that is purchased, and there are licences that are now legalized by existing software. It's a situation we may be in right now and we'll never find each other again, but it's going to be a very big burden on all those who only have a license to provide. Also, we asked one supplier who, now adapted to these changes, gave us an offer for software for, say, 86 users, so at this point we don't have to buy for these 86 users to buy a special license, but tomorrow when we open new places to attach that same software, then we pay as a tax license, because it's taxed on copyright taxes, or whatever that tax is called. That's one thing I wanted to talk about. The second thing I wanted to draw attention to, that is, point 11 of the Transport Tax Act, which lists everything tax exemption applies to. We have here an interesting situation that has missed even one distinguished colleague, the president of a large parliamentary group in this House, because last December we passed the Law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act, which contains only four members. The first member refers to the already existing member of the law, the second member refers to the already existing member of the law of the basic text, and the third member does not refer to point 11), although all products covered by the tax exemption are listed in that decimal point. This article states, among other things: "fresh, i.e. frozen fruit and vegetables, fresh, frozen meat and fish and fresh eggs; medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations etc." I would only remain at this second point in the third paragraph of these amendments and the addition of the Law and make an observation as to why this supplement did not apply to Article 11. Probably because the preamble states that this tax exemption applies only to 2002 and 2003. What are we going to do at the end of 2003, or are we going to extend it or end it as a tax exemption? Second of all, you're talking about the social aspect of the tax exemption of medicines going to the burden of the Social Insurance Fund. I say it's only as much help to citizens as the Fund doesn't pay taxes, or in rare cases when they don't have social security, so they're forced to buy that drug that would otherwise recognise the Fund. What about a large number of medicines for which the issue regulation is such that they can only be issued on a doctor's prescription and are not on the positive list? It is a large number of medicines needed by citizens and for which they have to allocate funds. It's not about luxury, it's not about what they need because they want to afford something better or wider than they do, but it's about what's justifiably taken off the positive list because we have to fit into the amount of resources that the Health Fund has. But it is a large list of medicines that indicate that only with a prescription can be issued. So, no one from luxury will decide to buy this medicine for themselves, but because the doctor recommended it, and this is not a marketing tax. I wouldn't bother you anymore. When there are certain amendments that our party has submitted, I will return the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24312	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The next person registered for the word is MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24313	Ten minutes ago, the minister presented data on the extraordinary results of reforms in Serbia in these two years, data that we had a 4% growth in 2000, so 6%, etc. Generally, even his second address to this house was in this direction to show that the transition in Serbia has taken a turn for granted and that we have very good results. However, the expert public, Mr. Minister, says something quite different. In that sense, I would invite you to read the latest study of the Centre for the Free Market of the Institute for European Studies. The study, Mr. Minister, is called -- two years of reforms in Serbia, a missed opportunity. The project manager is Dr Miroslav Prokopijevic. Did you read that? You're not. All relevant data from that study by these two institutes say that of the 15 transition countries in Europe, we are transition countries transformed from the socialist economic system to capitalist or market, if you will, in 15, last place. That just to deny you, that means that the professional public doesn't think or what you said. In my principled discussion on changes and additions to part of tax laws, I will look again at the 2003 public spending projection. Something I said yesterday, however, I think it was necessary for you, the MPs, and the public to once again warn that what is planned is unrealistic, dangerous and terrifying. The government is projecting public spending for next year at eight billion euros. Please listen to this figure: 8 billion euros! It is quite clear that the economy in this recession and the population with this kind of economic power will not be able to achieve it. It's clear that these resources won't be able to irrigate it. In order not to break the budget, it is to assume that the government will first continue to be unfeelingly in debt abroad, and thus clothe itself with large budget gaps. Secondly, what the government must do to cover this kind of public spending - that all the funds collected by privatisation of the Serbian economy are directed towards the budget. That may not be such a bad thing, although I think most of the funds collected on the basis of privatisation should be directed towards capital state investments or, as someone says, public works, which would be the initial chapel for the launch of an investment cycle in the Serbian economy. Why did I start this tax story from the beginning? For the simple reason that the planned reduction of some types of tax will not significantly do any damage to the revenue side of the budget. What the government is proposing to us now is, in my opinion, a mild cosmetics, mild relaxation and the economy and the population. I will take two examples: reducing the elimination of oil tax, sugar does not endanger the definitely revenue side of the budget, but nothing significantly facilitates even the extremely difficult economic situation of the population. Someone doesn't think if we take off three or four dinars the price of sugar and oil that it'll make something drastic easier for the social and economic situation of the population. In this regard, what does the Government mean by these mild interventions in the category of sales tax? I would remind you that, when you adopted new rates of sales tax, because all the rates of 20% were uniform, I even called on you from this assembly payphone to reason at that time (meaning both these Kostunicas and these Djindjics) and in a funny tone I even gave you: the Chicago tax, for example, on fruits, on vegetables, on oil, on sugar, and so on, and so on. In that revolutionary fantasy of yours. What's going on next? The government takes off taxes a little bit at a time. This should be done courageously, radically, and thus significantly relieved the people of the difficult economic social situation that we are in. Another example, the minister recently lectured on profit tax. This mild intervention in the category of profit tax... Let's just take an example of investment, why, Mr. Minister, don't say bravely: for everything a businessman invests in a company is 100% tax-free. Why? Thus, if a man buys bricks, creeps, machines etc.You speed up consumption and you collect sales taxes there, so a man has no reason to hide profit tax and has reason to invest and thus run an investment cycle. It's known from the economy, etc. In the end, I call on the government to think carefully, you MPs, to think carefully about budget projections for the next year, before it comes to this house. I call on the government to immediately radically move towards reforming the tax system, which will result in the promotion of economic activity and economic dissipation of the population. I call on the government to start real reforms in the economic sphere and start creating this much-needed macroeconomic environment in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received a decision by the Administrative Committee from a session held today at my request. Based on the decision of the Administrative Committee, which has been handed to you, I am voicing a measure of distance to Members Aleksandr Stefanovic and Rajko Baralic. (Tomislav Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I set a break until 15.00 hours, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24315	You can't just play with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Micic. You have severely injured our Rules of Procedure here, informing us that the Administrative Board has made some decision that is exclusively in your competences. In particular, the Management Board shall have the right to take decisions concerning the meetings of the Administrative Board. The Rules of Procedure shall apply accordingly, and if a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed, rude interference with order, physical assault. The Management Board may take a decision concerning the sole session of the Administrative Committee. The Management Board cannot exclude MPs from the National Assembly session, Mrs. Micic. Only you can do that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He who manages the session excludes from the session - he who manages the committee's session excludes from the committee's session, and he who manages the session of the National Assembly rules out from the session of the National Assembly. The administrative board of these two MPs could not exclude from the National Assembly sessions, and in particular could not qualify the work of a physical attack as a work that deserves 20 days of exclusion, but as a work that deserves 90 days of exclusion; 20 days of exclusion is a measure after the warning and confiscation of words, a measure that follows in a series of attempts by the president to establish order, and a 90-day measure of no previous measures, is exclusively applied to a physical attack anywhere in the National Assembly building. So, please stop playing these games and these wrinkles, respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You, Mrs. Micic, become once president of the National Assembly. Don't just take the honors that belong to you, but take the job that's waiting for you here. There's a job waiting for you here to set up a session of the National Assembly, just you and no one else. What if next time the chairman of the Finance Committee excludes someone from the National Assembly session, then the chairman of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, where would that lead us? I ask you to plead, and I request that the Administrative Board be made known within 24 hours of this objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24316	That's what I can ask if you know the Rules of Procedure. The MP may not request that the Management Board be declared within 24 hours, but the President of the Assembly. You don't understand me, I have given the measures to the MPs on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Committee. I said, you weren't listening, I said. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You didn't say. ) It exists in the record. So, on the basis of the decision, I gave the measures of distance to MPs Rajko Baralic and Aleksandr Stefanovic. On what grounds? You have no right, you are not the president of the parliamentary group. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has the People's MP Branimir Trajkovic, and the next declared word is MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24318	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister doesn't have any, because I have some proposals for the Excise Act, but I hope that he gets there by then, so I'll hand it over to him. By a united debate of these six agenda points, in which the entire 2001 tax code world has been amended and amended, the Ministry of Finance is today trying to remove or mitigate the shortcomings of these laws, which we have passed for as long as last year. I'm sure it's good for the people and that's something to say hello to. The Democratic Party of Serbia has long insisted on a full reform of the tax system and financial reform, all in order to improve human living standards, encourage investment in our economy, increase employment and curb the grey economy. A number of amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia have been accepted by the government, and for what it did not accept, we will try to convince MPs and ministers to accept it and to improve the changes and additions of these laws. It is important that the goal is achieved by some shift, in the above-mentioned laws, and the Democratic Party of Serbia indicates that this set of amendments and complementarity of the tax laws only led to cosmetic repairs of these laws and that a more comprehensive reform of these laws is needed. I wouldn't talk about all these laws in person, I wouldn't want to repeat myself to my colleagues who spoke before me about these laws, but I would stick to two laws, the corporate tax law, and the Excise Act. Namely, the Company Tax Act provides for a reduction in profit tax from the current 20% to 14%, which I welcome, the proposal is good. Maybe it took even 10% to go to today, when the banking conditions of credit are very bad, and you know how expensive the loans themselves are, that's how they stimulate the investment in production. In this regard, I also welcome the proposal to recognise small businesses 40% of the fixed assets on an annual basis and thus reduce the annual tax. There are other reliefs in the employment of workers, which is very positive and commendable. I'm a private entrepreneur myself, and I know how hard it is to work in these conditions today. I'll only tell you one example. Production inputs over the last two years have increased enormously, energy at least two to three times. The price of raw materials, specifically built in my case, remained the same, but the price of the product even fell. How in such cases can you be competitive on the foreign market? The banking system works badly with us, the loans are very expensive, it is impossible to obtain favourable loans and, therefore, we cannot be competitive on the foreign market. I think the real thing, besides these laws and this law yesterday, is to pass a series of laws that will create a friendly environment towards foreign investment, private foreign investment, not state investment. In this way, these and similar laws would attract foreign capital more and invest in the production of small and medium-sized enterprises, which I believe is our future. Without investment in production and without production, there is no progress in this society. I'd say something about the Excise Act, it's only about one case, excises on motor oil and oil. In fact, I came up with some data from the talks with producers from the Kruševec oil factory, so I would like to present it to the minister and ask him to study this data and possibly install it into his law, and it is a reduction of excise duties on motor oil and oil. I'll read some data, so I'd like you to listen, because they're very interesting. Oil production and sales in Serbia's Oil Industry for 2002 are projected at 14,000 tonnes. Imports of lubricating and lubricating fats are 14,000 tonnes also, with 7,000 tonnes of some smaller producers participating on the basis of imports of basic oils and additives, totaling about 35,000 tonnes. The projected total consumption in our country for 2002 is 50,000 tonnes, I'm talking about circus values, which gives one difference of 15,000 tonnes, which is actually imports on black. We all know that where there are high excises, there's the biggest smuggling of these goods. I'll tell you, you probably know that the factory price of one liter of motor oil is 169 dinars. Of which 100 dinars go to the state and 69 to the manufacturer. Namely, it's a load of about 150 percent. (President: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please pay attention and let's listen to our colleague.) ) In this way, the state and the Serbian budget, in the name of non-payment of excise duties and sales taxes, means, with this smuggling, they lose over 21m euros somewhere. Mr. Minister, I would suggest that the excise on lubricating oil and fat be 10 dinars a liter. You may think it's too small, but I'll warn you that there's no greater burden in our environment than 30%. In many countries, there are no excise duties in our area, but there are taxes that go up to a maximum of 30%. We can see how much there is in Europe. This would make more revenue in Serbia's budget. From one illegal sphere, it would turn into a legal sphere of business, the users would be protected, because there would be no counterfeiting and goods of suspicious origin and suspicious quality. What is most important would increase the capacity of domestic factories. So that's all the state would get, and the economy would get cheaper products. I would also mention what has most intrigued me in this whole story: these smuggled goods, look at some private pumps, fleas, private shops, etc., and it is mainly goods from Modrica and the surrounding countries. I would remind you that in April of this year, Montenegro abolished the excise duty on this type of product. Now, if we live in the same country, in Montenegro there is no excise on this type of product, I don't know how we're going to protect our market from finding these uncompetitive goods for our conditions. So it's going to be very difficult, but if we cut their excise duty to, say, 10 dinars a liter, we'd be able to figure out a smuggling. Practically, anyone would be uninterested in that kind of work. Minister, one more thing. In Kruševec is a factory called Rubin, which produces a very popular drink - a vinj, which is also burdened with an excise duty of over 35 dinars per litre. I'm telling you this for one simple reason why pirate distillery appeared in the vicinity of Subotica, Brcko, Podgorica, which causes great damage not only to the manufacturer, but also to our budget, or to the state. So all I'm saying is that the excise is going down. Tax is as big as it is, whether it's imports or not, but we would protect our producers and enter the sphere of a legal trade. That would be most of what I meant to say about the excise. I don't think any of the MPs thought of drinking water and utility taxes. It is true that drinking water and municipal services are exempt from paying sales taxes in 2002 and 2003, but it is a temporary measure. I don't know how smart it would be to put it into the law, so, let's say, next year we don't go back to that same problem. In any case, the DSS will vote for this package of laws, for these amendments to the law. What I'd like to tell you in the end is that it's always been the rule that most of the goods are being smuggled where they're enormous profits precisely because of large excises, which are cigarettes, alcohol and oil products.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24319	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic. The next person registered for the word is MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24320	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this third session of the Second Regular Session is a correctional exam for the previous Second Session that you failed and marked by two scandals that everyone is familiar with. For the first time, there was no agenda and secondly, a parliamentary club was formed by members of a new party that did not participate in the elections. That is why a similar agenda marks this session, which discusses a package of tax laws and is directed on two tracks. The first track - Proposal for a Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, which bears the mark of the Systemic and is indeed a Systemic and Comprehensive Law, but it is a shame that this law will not be applied because it is adopted by an illegal assembly, because it no longer knows who is an MP and who is not. The second - changes and additions of several tax laws, which you admit to the mistakes that we have shown you in good time when you adopt. You are not helping the citizens, but you are returning to the state before your arrival to power, because you have introduced these taxes and introduced the rates of income tax on citizens, and now you are pretending, as you popularly say, fine and disbursed citizens from paying taxes on oil and sugar, or you are reducing the price calculated by 17.1%). I really don't know if there is an MP in this room who doesn't support such measures in this state, the status of poverty of our citizens, and I don't think that a large number of MPs supported those measures in March 2001, when the rates of payment of sales taxes for oil and sugar of 20% were introduced. It's hard, but it's humane to admit the mistake you're admitting to this other set of laws. With a view to comprehensive tax reform in March 2001, increased rates and taxed everything that moves and breathes. You cannot say that citizens suffer because of the unadopted agenda, because they have suffered since 1 April 2001, when the tax on sugar and oil was introduced. Mr. Minister, they're suffering day and day, because you've been in the debate since 192 minutes ago, how long the session lasted, 61.5 minutes yourself, and we're pushing for efficiency in the work. They have suffered since September, because in the election campaign for Mr. Labus, you tricked them that the government has abolished the tax on these items, and the price of oil and today, in retail stores, is 75.59 dinars. If this measure dissipates the citizens, the best example is the greatest Serbian fame that is celebrated across half of the Serbs, St. Nicholas; it will contribute to the lesser costs of those who celebrate and host, but on the other hand it will burden the new excise duties of the guests who come to the feast. You've increased excise duties on oil derivatives and, Mr. Minister, I can say that you're very difficult to give up budget revenues. I've heard a good saying these days, and maybe it's a joke: what's more stingy and harder than a Pirotian? Says reformed or reformed pyrocan. I can really say that this means at this point that fewer citizens will be disbursed on the basis of the purchase of oil and sugar compared to drivers, as well as the increased volume of oil derivatives transport compared to edible oil and sugar. I can also say, from Republika Srpska, or by smuggling through the Drina, you can buy a bag of sugar for 1.560 dinars, bar in Valjevo. We know that in retail sugar is somewhere around 43 dinars and perhaps a bigger problem at the moment is smuggling from Republika Srpska and the environment, and it is also related to some products, compared to the sales tax paid by citizens. In order to cover the full tax system and mailing, because citizens are silent at this point, because it is difficult for them, I think that through the proposed budget for next year and through the amendments to these laws which at this point represent the government's fiscal policy for next year, means through a comprehensive analysis of the amendments proposed, we should indeed round up and end up with a tax reform in this country. Today I heard and this data that our citizens paid 80% of the tax in relation to the cut; at this point, it may be good that the campaign that started, that our alphabet begins with the letter "p", ended with an extremely successful year in order to charge against the state of the taxpayers, although the percentage of the tax on extraprofit and extra income is really very low, and after this Supreme Court solution is negligible. There are great illogicalities that you cannot explain yourself, probably because of some lobbies and changes in sales taxes and other obligations for certain products and equipment. The tax exemption for computers will not help poor citizens, and the release based on the sales tax on dairy products, which are the basis of the daily diet of our citizens, children's food, will likely come on the release agenda if the Slovenian lobby of the dairy producer asks our government to do so. These days we have heard as much in Croatia, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro have problems with importing and spending milk from Slovenia. The tax rates proposed are returning to old rates and equating and introducing a proportional rate, where a proportional rate has been introduced instead of income tax and progressive rates. I think it'll just expand the taxpayer's tax number. So there will be no 380 of them, there will be many more, given that the basis that makes up this part of the tax to be paid has not been increased, and what we have proposed with the amendment to increase. Sharena is also a lie to lift the tax rate on renting apartments and bars, where the rabbit lies in the fact that after 2004, the tax will be reintroduced and where there will likely be a new increase in rent prices, i.e. the issue of apartments under the heading of an increase in sales tax. I really think this is devastating and humiliating, introducing a fine for consumers of 1,000 dinars, if they do not show an account when leaving the store. Every morning and every day our children go to shops, trades and buy bread and milk. I think it's really very degutant right now to ask those kids to show the bill. We know you can't fine them. In the end, I think the full effects and the real images of comparisons with the other countries in our environment that you often mention here will be clear by introducing a synthetic tax. I think it will be on 1 January 2004 and that at that moment we may be able to compare ourselves to the tax burden with our environment and other countries in transition, as well as developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24321	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragisa Marinkovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, this package of laws will, in any case, please all citizens of this country, normally except those who have a little more jinx in them, so they see white as black. He will cheer up an ordinary man, and that is most important to me as an MP for the Democratic Party. Mucic had just said nicely: for this St. Nicholas we will have cheaper oil, cheaper sugar. It's something that makes me happy as a man. Anyway, he'll make investors happy. This country needs real investors and people to invest in it. This package of laws stimulates them to invest and invest in the country. We are like the land of these ten years lag behind the world, and we are left behind because we were out of it. We haven't invested in what's progress in years, and these are computers. On this occasion we have a chance, and a very good chance, to buy these young people the sooner we buy those funds that are the basis for the future of this country. I can also say that I am happy that banks support these short-term loans and that people can get through banks very quickly to such funds as computers. I also claim that the opposition, frankly speaking, supports the law package. We've heard here, Mr. Minister, that you're being criticized. Unfortunately, I don't think they think so, because they talk a little differently about you in the hallway. I think they appreciate you a lot more than they say here at the pay phone. You've shown one size that even where we're wrong, we know we're getting better, and when it comes to a trophy weapon, we said yes, we've made a mistake, the trophy weapon will no longer be taxed, and by this law we confirm. In order for some laws to be successful, the tax administration and the financial police must do their job properly. In a conversation with the minister, I received a firm promise that the financial police would really be one cultural, educated police, when they entered that house called a private company, they would act normal, human, with a smile on their faces. Also with a smile on his face he'll come out of that firm. Unfortunately, these years, we've been experiencing that when the police, I mean financial, enters your company, it's like your tip came in. They acted like that because they felt power. I hope that this new, modern financial police in this country will be as it is in Europe, polite, cultural, just like that. And finally, every honor of courage, Mr. Minister, from 20% sales tax, profit tax, you're down to 14%. It is a brave move at this time when you finance 50% of your pensions from the budget, when you finance the railway 70%, it really is a brave move and I support you as a brave minister. Perhaps you should have, in my opinion, increased this tax credit to the fixed assets to 30% and maybe 40%, but then. Big investors are now given a big chance in this country. What the minister mentioned is that our environment is such that certain countries that were in transition are now entering the European Union and they must adapt to the laws in Europe. We have a chance for big investors to come to us and therefore that privilege for big investors in this country and it is good that domestic and foreign investors are even. It's a qualitative shift, it wasn't in the transition countries around us. With the introduction of fiscal tills in 2003, I hope that this budget will be even more full and what you and I have talked about, and I am giving you full support to reduce the burden on personal income next year. I hope you can do it. And finally, I ask all those MPs who, in these laws, see one quality thing, which is indeed so, to vote for these laws because they are truly for the benefit of this people. I just want to finally invite you to come to the small O.R. tomorrow at 8:30, and the people of the Ministry of Privatisation want to introduce you to the state of privatisation in the country. If you have any questions about the companies that are in your environment, where you come from as MPs, be kind enough to give them to me so that they can give you answers as concretely as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24323	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zivko Selakovic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union after a major break of the assembly session, we felt that this autumn session of the Assembly would begin with some brighter topics, i.e. the adoption of such laws as, say, the law on denationalisation, in my opinion, a key law for the citizens of Serbia, as well as a law on the protection of the environment, given what kind of environmental disasters we all face. However, starting as usual, the priority is once again a package of tax laws, this time changing and supplementing them, which we have adopted not so long ago and I can say freely, "good luck" to the citizens. Some tax laws will be referred to with certain objections and suggestions; the Soviet Parliament believes that the legislators of these laws should accept this as well-intentioned suggestions and proposals. As regards the Transport Tax Act, as regards Article 2. The proposal for a law should be subject to large-scale exemption from sales taxes, non-taxable products for products; it is unfounded to tax on these products whose turnover is otherwise not taxed. Secondly, we propose that works to build new, upgrade and upgrade existing facilities and reconstruction of objects declared to be culturally sound of tax on the transport of services, given that in practice this seems to be based on the written opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, so this should be regulated by law. To avoid double taxation of services, in the same way and on the same basis as the transport of products, if it is obtained as a re-promaterial or for further sale. The profit tax law should stipulate that the tax base is also reduced in the periodical tax balance over the year for loss in earlier years, given that it is likely to occur at the end of the year. The question arises as to why a profit tax would be paid during the year, a profit that must be used at the end of the year to cover losses from earlier years. Instead of reducing the profit tax for investment in fixed assets, a reduction should be prescribed for profits allocated to increase capital. The property tax law should provide for the exemption from the payment of taxes on the transfer of absolute rights in the first purchase of an apartment or business space in construction undertakings or entrepreneurs who have built for the market. This is because this tax is not paid if the building facility is built by a construction company or entrepreneurs, and if the building permit is obtained by a future owner. The law on income tax should provide for the establishment of nominal values contained in the law for the percentage of the change in earnings, as prescribed in other provisions of the tax base harmonisation law. Business owners and entrepreneurs doing business in their business, i.e. in their business, should be able to compensate for the cost of expenditure on official travel, daily travel, transport, stays in the country, and abroad and the cost of transportation of arrival and return from work, as well as employees. The Soviet Parliament Group will explain its amendments in detail to individual members of these laws in its amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24325	The People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24326	First of all, we are not Social Democrats, and it is not true that we have sacrificed our programmes to the interests of the government, as one Belgrade weekly writes today, and we are not economic liberals, unlike Mr Jovanovic, who is not present at the moment, but spoke as head of the parliamentary group about the most liberal taxes, tax rates and the like, and did not say anything, I guess he meant in relation to the environment. We are Social Democrats in good faith, so when we criticise here we criticise in good faith, we think that it is better to make development slower and slower but to be sustainable, than to be quick and then break, because it will be too much of the price of this rapid development, and that this does not result in reform, because it will not actually be supported politically by voters. That's why we think it's better to have something slower and more sustainable than not to be at all. So we're actually keeping our criticisms that you're going to hear this reform course here. Now, what's good about this proposed tax code? I wouldn't talk about that for long. The minister talked about it a lot, and other MPs also said. These are -- investment incentives, the release of computer sales taxes, the release of bond taxes, the privatisation of old foreign exchange savings, the loan for the economic rebirth of Serbia, then the exemption from the tax on business space for natural persons, fiscal cash registers, as well as many other things that have been given in this tax package. What we think is wrong is, first of all, what doesn't say here. We believe that the value added tax and synthetic income tax of citizens are inadmissiblely late. That's our opinion, but there are good arguments for it, and if the minister answers his remarks, he'll probably mention at least two things we know about. One is that the information system should be introduced, and the other is that the state already owes citizens money on more ground. Without that, the value added tax, which mainly works on the principle that the state is at any time obliged to return the previously paid tax at some stage of the resales, does not give certainty that it will be returned at all in time. We now have a plan to introduce these two taxes as of 1 January 2004 and we welcome that. But I'll see you when we talk about it here. In these proposals, which are two steps ahead of us, they're not good. So each of them individually has some of their own good side, but we think that these two measures lead to a bad situation. One of these two measures is, of course, the abolition of progress in the income tax. Of course, there were polemics here whether or not these taxes are abolished at all, but in any case more of these grades of progress are abolished and there is now only one linear rate of income of over 600,000 dinars per year. The second measure is that the sales tax remains the same in terms of the rate, although it is abolished for sugar, oil, fat and several other products. His 20% rate remains. Be careful, when we as parliamentarians, as a state, do not reduce the rate of sales tax that burdens the widest layer of the population - consumers, while reducing the progressive tax on the income of citizens, for those citizens who earn over 600,000 dinars, which is a terriblely large income, we actually want to say that we will release this burden of taxation only those who earn the most, means the richest, and those who are medium-sized or those who are not at all wealthy do not. We believe that here, in one sense, there is a proposal for an unhealthy tax policy. I know it's not intentional, but that's how it turns out, in terms of these two measures, we have that this tax policy is not based on a healthy maximum "the burden of taxation has to be so installed that it corresponds to the economic power of the taxing entity". In a sense, we have an antipod here for Robin Hood, not to say Super Hick, who says, "Let's steal the poor so we can give the rich." I know that's not an intention, but in any case, we should consider having a camouflage here. There are a lot of measures relating to investors, making investment easier, reducing income tax i.e. The profits of the company are reduced by the progressive tax on the income of citizens, and the sales tax, or its rate, is not reduced. So we think that in this sense together these two measures are not good. Mr. Minister mentioned yesterday the famous American economist Arthur Leffer, famous for proposing a controversial theory that income taxes do not always grow with an increase in tax rates, but that there is a point over which, for example, there is a point. if 80%, if the tax rates were more than 80%, then tax revenues would be reduced, since so many large taxes would not be paid regularly by taxpayers, so he suggested that the tax maximum in the United States be reduced to encourage the savings of citizens, investments, job creation and, at the same time, more budgeting. Of course, three changes, 1981, 1984 and 1987 in this programme did not lead to success and his theory remained very controversial. The empire has shown, during Reagan, in America, that this theory is not quite right. Well, I'm referring to this because of the desire to enter the controversy with Mr. Minister because, as an argument to cut corporate tax and to reduce the progressiveness of income tax, citizens suggest a reduction in the rate with the argument that there will be more taxpayers, so the tax base will be higher, and thus the number of people who report that income will increase. So if we now have something about 3,000, as we've heard here, there should be more reports on that basis and more charges. But, to be clear, if we reduce one rate of tax then we have to reduce all the rates of tax, and in that sense we suggest that the rate of sales also decreases and that it is 17% and that would be the very difference of 3% that is now being paid to the federal state, which is why the need will stop the moment when the state's jurisdiction is reduced. There's more, but we'll discuss it in the amendment debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24327	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's elaborate this famous consumer basket that the minister dedicated most of his exposé to this morning. The minister claimed that in 2001 it was necessary to spend two average salaries on a single consumer basket and that one average salary is now enough. The consumer basket, Minister, you certainly know that, is no standard criterion. I think that's where you agree with me. But if it were someone to measure citizens' payability, knowing that two kilograms of meat, two liters of oil, two kilos of sugar, flour, some pasta, I ask you why you don't put in that consumer basket what costs us the most, which is electricity, utility, transport, telephone, heating, clothing, textbooks, books for children, and I won't even talk about culture, because we can't go to a family movie today because it costs at least 1,000 dinars. Minister, if you haven't been to the movies recently, go see the Zamfir Zone, you'll see what the price is. If we put all this in the consumer basket, you would see that our standard is 3.2 times lower than it was in 2001, and I, Minister, know it from experience, because every day I go to the market and to the store and I know how much of this salary I can buy now, and how much I could buy in 2001 and how much I could in 2000. From that... What kind of shortages? You have now reduced your taxes on oil and sugar; and do you know how much you saved me a month? 26 dinars. Three dinars for a kilo of sugar and five dinars for a liter of oil. I use a monthly for a five-member family of two liters of oil, two kilos of coffee sugar (I'm not coming to milk) and that's 26 dinars. From what you ministers put in that consumer basket, you can feed one and a half people, and four people can't, they can't starve. The rate of income tax on agriculture and forestry is reduced from 20% to 14% and there is almost no loss to the budget, because we have completely destroyed agriculture and income and there is no. The income tax on self-employment is also reduced from 20% to 14%. It's obvious that you've seen that we're going to run out of independent craftsmen, no independent merchants, no catering shops, no longer have people counting to work, so you've reduced something a little cosmetically, but not enough. You were talking about the logic that the rich have to pay taxes, explaining why you're going from progressive to proportional. We are also at this point in favour of a proportional rate, with what we think should be even lower, because we are a society of poor people, which will soon be able to count two hands in this Serbia, and if we speak in that sense, in which you pleaded that in the future we should reach some 24% proportional rates, I must remind you that in the West this proportional rate goes up to 90% in certain countries. One more thing, Minister: Here, let your experts calculate. A young man who one day cleans snow will pay a bigger income tax than I will pay for it or what you will pay for. Take it and calculate it. As far as sales taxes are concerned, we've already talked about this oil and sugar, and it's good that the price is somewhat lower, but it won't have much to do with citizens' standards. It would have affected a lot if you had reduced the taxes on seed material, on drugs, on medical supplies, orthopaedic aids, then on books, on clothes and shoes for children, and on electricity I really think it's too high to talk about other heating tools, on trees, on coal and what costs us the most now. You are now assessing, too, that eight billion will remain short budgets due to the adoption of these laws due to a reduction in individual taxes. You don't even say in terms of property tax how much less that is. Obviously, you didn't collect a bigger tax here, and therefore I think this is only at this point perhaps profitable for the Serbian government, that it's not for the benefit of the citizens, that it's not well thought out, that it's not a real reform, but it's time for some melting towards the government before the presidential elections, as a consequence of your obvious agreement and the support of the Democratic Party of Serbia's candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24329	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word, and the following is the People's Messenger Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24330	There are no agreements and talks on possible support, right at the beginning to clarify. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes in the tax system that started at the beginning of last year are one of the few essential reforms that the current government has entered. These steps have long been announced, which we now need to take and I cannot help but notice that the stable governmental majority, once spoken of in this room, had no power or will for such steps. About some lost game time, game over mandate and agenda, I'm not gonna waste my breath on that. However, this step will not be as great, as is said, until further conditions are created to increase direct investments that are not large at this time. The Democratic Party of Serbia has spoken a lot through its shadow government about these conditions and the solutions to meet them; part of those solutions has been accepted by the ministry and that is what we welcome. Tax reliefs, which are ahead of us today, have primarily a psychological fact, given that Serbia already has the lowest tax rates in Europe. To support this, I'm only going to give one example. The reduction in the profit tax rate to 14% is a huge reduction of 30%, but the profit tax only participates in the tax system structure from 2% and 1.8%, respectively, so these effects are minimal. At the same time, with this proposal of relief, the government has slowed down to give up its single rate policy. As we need to move to value added tax in the near future, too many extensions of the list of freed goods should be avoided, as frequent changes in tax matter have proved to be a bad solution in practice. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia did not insist on the releases at this session, but gave the most suggestions to the Tax Administration Act. At the same time, for the sake of the public, but also to teach the head of the DOS-Reform parliamentary group: liberalisation, liberal economy, tax relief and liberation are not the same concepts. I hope Mr. Jovanovic will take the opportunity to read the stenographic notes, and I hope the minister agrees with me in this. In part of these six draft laws we insisted on some more precise provisions and only on one true expansion, in textbooks. We had in mind subsidies as a better solution, but it exceeded our desire to help the family budgets of our taxpayers. In the field of computers and software, the government has made one oversight and forgotten that a computer without additional equipment, i.e. printers, scanners, and similar accessories does not mean much in a wide application. Our amendment, which the Ministry and the Government have accepted, and this failure has been corrected. In the end, I have something to say about the impact of this tax policy on the budget. The future side, i.e. the revenue charged, is really higher by 42% and nominally more than 70% compared to the corresponding inflows in the first nine months of 2001. In April 2001, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposed amendments that the ministry has put into the current draft laws, which means that we have had better forecasts of the structure of the budget and its flows, and therefore I think it is better to be honest and to say openly that filling the revenue side of the budget is not due to growth in production and reviving the economy, but is due to the primarily strong tax policy and high tax rates, which the ministry is reducing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24331	The People's Messenger Stevan Guduric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24332	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, I will speak on behalf of the National Socialist Group. People - for many reasons, and also colleagues who didn't understand something to explain: that we, mentioned by him, were very involved in the elections and that other colleagues from that parliamentary group participated in the elections in their midst, as Stevan G. Guduric did, in this assembly, the schedule of forces would be very different. But let's go back to these tax laws, which Mr. Minister has laid out here. Let's start with a good one, 'cause we're gonna end up with what's not right. The fact that some minor tax returns are compared to before, that's good. Is the schedule and the priority of it good, the question is, because if I'm old, so I went to school and first learned to read books, and only later as an old man did I learn on a computer. As far as I know, these current kids read books first, and then they get their hands on the computer. Is it really a schedule of what to get rid of first, and then what to do about it? Also, I can't understand the difference between a trophy weapon and the one at home standing on the table, in the closet, on the wall, which isn't worn. As far as I'm concerned, it's both the same. I'll tell you that I have a '88 flag, which is also in the closet as well as a 1944 parabelum. That "parabelum" is more objectively dangerous since it's harder, so when you take a handle to rub someone's head. They don't serve each other for nothing. I'm curious, if a year ago there was talk of how much taxes should be, or it was a wrong interpretation, why in privatization those who buy factories don't pay taxes, or perhaps Minister Vlahovic here deceived us when he claimed that, according to the Privatisation Act, 5% belongs to local self-government. I'll give you an example of my community. La Farge bought a Beocian cement factory, and here I was explaining how, so on and so forth, we're not going back to the same thing. The Beocin municipality received 5%. It says on those papers it's from privatisation, so let's believe it. Maybe that's better because they say the tax doesn't go out of date, so we'll probably get the other 5% eventually, because it's hard for me to explain that it's normal for me to buy the house and I have to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, and if I buy the Beocian cement factory, then I don't have to pay the tax. That doesn't make much sense either in the part we're burdening with taxes -- those they don't have or what they have. This way, it looks like the ones they don't have. Also, let me ask you what I get on that tax. Say, if you go to the police to register a new car for foreign production, which some authorised house has imported, passed state customs and all that state, then you have to sign the paper, as a taxpayer in this country, that 60 days, under criminal responsibility, you can't alienate that car, because if someone finds out that someone picked up that car somewhere, you've got to get your own expense back. The state should have protected me as a citizen, not some importer or I don't know who else, because it's going through state authorities. So if we're going to have that, then we don't pay taxes if we can't get what the state has to pay us for that tax. There's one thing that's still important. Mr. Minister also spoke here of some rather optimistic indicators regarding the economy. You know, from the 27 years I've been working, 22 I've been working in the economy, so there's a little bit of practice here, and I don't think that's the way it is. It's probably one real consequence of the situation. Every resort in this country has someone in charge, the only economy in Serbia has no economy minister. Now someone here will say - there is Mr. Vlahovic. It's just, I've been hearing my ears for two years, and they're not even small to me, and I've only never heard Mr. Vlahovic talk about the economy. Privatizing stories every day and you can listen as much as you want to. So, it's no wonder that your economic indicators aren't as optimistic as Mr. Minister put it, but I would really like the minister here today, when he comes out for the pay phone again, to explain that we can then recommend to people in Serbia whether it's more favourable to buy factories or houses, because if you pay taxes for the house, then it's not good, and if you don't pay taxes for factories, then it's probably very receptive, so if we send people a message from here -- get out of the house, buy factories, there's a lot more people to live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24333	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24334	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, first I must express protest over the assembly's relationship to yesterday's act of physical violence against MP Mr. Baralic. Violence is allowed at the official session. It wasn't violence in the hall, not during the break, not on the street, but here in the Assembly at an official meeting. What security and protection can citizens expect when physical violence is tolerated in the highest legislative body of the country and adequate measures are not being expressed? Let us not forget that this precedent will have far-reaching consequences for overall social behavior. The point is that the Assembly should have taken its stand on this matter, not only to leave it to the Committee, who was certainly not competent to decide as he had decided. (President: National MP, if you have no intention of bringing the fine for MPs Baralic and Stefanovic into contact with the tax law, please move on to the topic. ) I am moving on to a set of tax laws, but this is indeed the current issue it has and the consequences for the work of this congregation. In light of the proposal to amend and supplement this set of six tax laws, the Government points out that this continues to implement tax reform, stresses that it seeks to achieve a fair approach towards the taxpayer in terms of its economic power and that it wants to influence economic and social policy through tax instruments through a reduction of certain taxes. The stated objectives are not controversial. However, through the solutions offered, it is seen that cosmetics are, more or less, in terms of tax cuts, and on the other hand, increases are being made. Here, let's take a look at this in the case of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. All I'm gonna do is look into that law. In Article 1 The government proposes that the maximum untaxed amount paid to an employee as a severance on retirement be up to twice the average monthly salary per employee in the Republic. So far, the untaxed amount could have been significantly higher. Namely, according to Article 90. The labour law, the amount of the severance of the retired employee, was determined by a general act, a labour contract, or a general collective contract, or by those employers who concluded the contract. True, under the collective agreement, the untaxed amount was one and a half earnings. However, this concerned only those employers who had concluded such a contract, and under the Labour Act there is no obligation to conclude the contract. In other words, the employer could not pay taxes to pay the severance payment when leaving the employee and at the level of months' earnings. In practice, it was usually three profits. The total amount of severance was further than the last month's employee's salary, and if it was more favourable for him, he could choose: to take his income, his average, the average of the employer or the average in the Republic. These are all advantages compared to this proposal that we got from the government today. It is unwarranted that the government is now proposing an increased arrest and therefore wants to burden the payers with an increased burden. If the government's proposal does not change, it will result in employers paying less severance fees. It's not humane and it's difficult to justify at the end of the working century the right of an employee when he retires. Next, in Article 12. The government has proposed that the current 40 per cent relief be abolished for members of student, youth and student associations. More speakers today, fellow MPs, and this has been a distraction. How do you justify this here? Does the promoter know what category of youth makes occasional profits in these cooperatives? Many young people are forced to accept this part - time work through cooperatives, because their parents are unable to provide the necessary amount of money to obtain books, pay tuition, pay accommodations in their home, rebuild their wardrobe without saying to raise some money during the summer vacation to go somewhere on a tourist trip or to the sea. Let us also note that they do very difficult and dangerous jobs, it is about loading and unloading, carrying furniture, cleaning windows on multi-storys, cleaning snow etc. Let us not forget that members of these cooperatives do not have pension, social, or health insurance. If so far the relief is lifted, the increased tax will fall to the burden of youth. In fact, employers will quickly transfer this increased expenditure to them through a reduction in net payments. The SPS, as a social justice party, argues that this type of tax is not increased, but to be kept at the existing level, and in due course to significantly reduce or completely abolish. The same law in Article 11 regulates the taxation of sportsmen's and sports experts' incomes, the SPS proposes to make it easier to increase from the proposed 50% to 70%. Appreciateing the importance of sport for youth, as well as for all citizens, as well as encouraging them to deal with it as much as possible, more will be achieved by cutting taxes than by its increased charge and entering into the republican budget. Also, as a result of fostering the development of top sports and its positive impact on young people and on the country's international affirmation in general, it is necessary to free the tax on the income of top-notch athletes with special merits, I stress - with special merits, as this is the Law on Sports regulated, as well as revenues for national recognitions and awards for a special contribution to the development and affirmation of sports. It's regulated by the Sport Act, where the area of general interest of sports in the Republic is regulated. Further, relating to Article 14. The SPS proposes erasing the member, whom the government proposes to abolish the progressive management of the annual income tax and to pay at proportionate rates in the future. It is difficult to understand the government's proposal that deviates from world practice, because it is the reverse world practice, which is confirmed by the minister today by the guidance of Russia and some countries that are in transition. That approach is to pay more than anyone who has. It has to pay at progressive rates. This also achieves respect for one of the tax rules, which is the rule of tax justice. I remind you that while the Socialists were in power, they always prescribed a progressive rate in this type of tax and thus led a fairer and more social and tax policy. Since a united debate on six laws is being held, I do not have the time to point out some other things that I believe should be improved in the bill's proposal, but I believe that the suggestions of a roundtable MP, and in the first part of the SPS MPs who have submitted a large number of amendments, will also be accepted in the general interest as well as the improvement of the legislative proposals made by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24335	The word has a folk MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic, and after that, MP Djuro Popovic. A total of 31 MPs have been reported for the principle debate in order, and so far, 12 MPs have used their right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24336	Dear Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have a significant job and yesterday we passed a tax system and administration law, and today several laws that are changing and supplementing existing tax laws. When the government submits a proposal to amend and amend a law, it acknowledges that those goals that were expected at the time when the law was passed to the Assembly for adoption have not been achieved. This is a positive line in government behavior, to see for itself that some solutions could be corrected in favour of those who produce and spend. We, the MPs here, are indeed representatives of the citizens, who draw attention to certain actions or shortcomings of existing regulations and ask us to represent and defend their interests in this assembly on such occasions. I'm doing it this time. I am not worthy of making amendments, nor have I done so far, because there are many people who are more fruitful in this regard than I am. I would like to show Mr. Minister that it has been missed that, in Article 11 of the existing Transport Tax Act in point 4, there are also famous ones, and the minister knows this well, queen bees. Please, what I'm about to say isn't exactly going to the Ministry's Attarium. Since the law was passed, friends involved in the selection of bees queens have sought, since the phrase is not mentioned in the point 4 of the queen bee, that it is a formulation - seed for reproduction, application to queen bees. One queen lays about 50,000 eggs, lays them down, and it's like a bag containing 50,000 grains for breeding. That's what I asked the Ministry of Agriculture to give such an interpretation and support that position. On the same floor are the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic Administration of Public Revenue. Please, here's a full year, that question hasn't been solved so far. I ask the Minister to exercise his right, and he is very well aware of this, that in some mandatory interpretation of point 4 of Article 11 of the existing Transport Tax Act that interpretation and thus the only scientific institution that deals with the selection of bee queens, called the "AP Center", releases a burden of 600,000 dinars per year. It's not a big item for the budget, but for them it's like pulling a mosquito's leg out. They give more that way than they get from the agricultural budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, for selection. Please, Mr. Djelic, the thing is often presented to you: that, in this way, without changing this text, for the formulation - the seed for reproduction, you give an interpretation that also applies to queen bees. It's a kind of seed. I was also asked by the group "Serbian Wine" to present the following in the discussion of amendments and additions to the Excise Act: wine should also be released from the payment of excise duties. I'd like to remind you, in many countries wine is treated as food. We have a load of about 12 dinars per litre. At this time, domestic wine production is facing imports of cheap wines from Macedonia, which are paid only 1% of customs duties. Our wine houses, apart from the fact that the harvest is mediocre and this fall has been a huge rot and bothritis because of the great rains, cannot sell their supplies, they cannot pay off the vineyards. So, what happens then? This is what happens, gentlemen of the people, those from the vineyards, from Prokuplje, Kruševaga vinogorje know that with us from 100,000 hectares of once-born vineyards, this land has fallen to below 30,000 acres of vineyards that produce. I was recently in Slovenia and saw an impressive expansion of vineyard production. We have a regress that threatens to make the traditional vineyard-wine production in this country completely disappears. And another recommendation, Mr. Minister, that the sales tax on wine should be delayed. I think it's possible to accept such a relief, because the wine houses "Krajina wine", "Wine parish", or "Rubin", "Probian", when they sell wine to the supermarket chain, wait for money 60 to 90 days, otherwise they won't buy it. Those sales taxes and excise duties have to pay immediately, the moment the wine leaves the basement. Please have an understanding of this for the following reasons:Budget as a significant act of every state that regulates and treats the state to citizens and citizens, except for this fiscal and social, unfortunately, large social items and characteristics it has, must have a greater degree and development function. This means that such solutions, reliefs, benefits will encourage not only the increase in consumption as in this case, oil, sugar and fat, which is very significant, because there are houses in which cheese, cheese, oil, one drop of oil, besides Minister Djelic knows it, but also production. I have made two proposals a little while: regarding bees nuts that are more productive, which give 30 to 40% more honey, which such a queen has been selected; to lift the excise on wine, to pay the tax on the market, because in this way it may also begin to restore the winemaking that is now in one terrible déclinated decline. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you have heard this with understanding and that there will be appropriate changes in official acts to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24337	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by National MP Emilija Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24338	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, apparently the current power in its reform campaign has taken the wrong turn. Of course, the changes, so eagerly expected and broadly supported by the plebiscitely expressed people's will, entail the adoption of appropriate legislation by this high home. I suppose, however, that in just every fallen rural land, conditions should first be created to lift up the stables, the pattern, the treatment, and the planting of the fields, even though the hosts lived for a time in the cane. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia was rightly expected to encourage and enable production first and to have a chance to create new values, and then access the modernisation of legislation in the tax area as well. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government has contributed to the collapse in Serbia on various fronts with its inaction and act; many business operators are in real agony, with hundreds of thousands of people losing their jobs and most pensioners living in misery. There is also a very characteristic example in the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Transport Tax Act. The proposed legislative act does not provide for the exemption from the sales tax of works of art subject to the property of cultural goods and significant cultural goods, i.e. cultural goods of particular importance. The fiscal arrest in this case has really invaluable adverse consequences, and the fact is that taxation has a crucial effect that many works of art remain out of sight, or hidden in private collections. At the same time, these jewels are often the subject of smuggling, i.e. illegal and uncontrolled sales to white-world foreign customers. Of course, this seems immeasurable to national mildness, much more than that. It's hardly a country where, as in this country, cultural heritage is truly insinuated, as in the price of the imminent loss of national identity. In general, the proposals for acts in a set called the so-called "A." Tax laws do not meet Serbia's citizens' expectations enough, and even most of the proposed reliefs have long been required by the opposition. This is only partially translated into the provisions of the legal acts that are before us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24339	The word is a folk letter from Emilija Krstic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24340	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, I truly believe in your great efforts to bring the area you are dealing with into order and to implement reforms in the fiscal area, in the portfolio, I say, which you are dealing with in the Government of Zoran Djindjic, but I also think that the reforms of this area must be followed by reforms in all other areas in order for us all to be satisfied, and I believe that you will be satisfied with both the speed and the quality, that is, the ease you are doing work in this area. In 2001, I think, when we adopted in the field of goods and services tax, some changes and additions, which meant a single tax rate of 20% on goods and services, were some first phase; and of course, this was now supposed to be some second phase that, I think, you agree with me, should mean a reduction in the number of taxes and a reduction in the rate of single tax from 20% to even lower. Besides, of course, the cuts and these other rates of income tax, tax cuts, etc., which I'll talk about later. But I don't know why at this point you've given up somewhat on your concept that this implies as some other step towards eliminating a sales tax that doesn't exist in the countries of the West and introducing value added tax. I think you've given it up, I don't know why. I just don't want to think that this is a tax elimination of certain items, related to a campaign in the presidential elections, but it may be connected in some way, and maybe it's some kind of calculation that you could make such a relief for the citizens in that part and that, I would say, with partial solutions to the citizens of Serbia. But anyway, I'm going to briefly look back at all the changes and additions to all these laws that are set today on the agenda. The first is sales tax, so oil, sugar, and what I would keep myself on because I come from the middle of it, and that is the elimination of this tax on publishing services in the lease of business and other space. As early as April or March of the month, all those who were members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism know, came out with an initiative to cut this tax, because the tax burdens were high, somewhere over 40%, which resulted in tenants who had issued their capacities to rent tourists avoiding registering their guests and thus paying taxes. Of course, it has made it easier for your register, or for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but it has also facilitated the budget of local self-government and the fact is that we have lost some of the residence tax. Of course, then, as you told me in June of the month, there was no room for that change to take place in this home, so we came into a situation that the tourist season had passed and that we were now dating in November of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24341	Excuse me, People's MPs, I ask the People's Messengers to pay a little more attention to the Rules of Procedure and the Speakers, whoever he is, bring a little more attention to listening. I'm really asking you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24342	Thank you. As for the fiscal registers and the need to introduce them, I would simply ask you to specify what part of the burden on the purchase of fiscal cash registers will be borne by taxpayers, which is the part that will bear the budget. Excise that is abolished on jet fuel for aircraft propulsion is due to the elimination and sales tax on that same fuel. Of course, it will undoubtedly reduce the operating costs of domestic companies and will reflect positively, so that the excise duty would not hold much longer. The tax on use, holding and carrying goods will not make the budget much easier, but there are simply not many budget users on this basis, which will be made easier for this type of tax. You said in the property tax that he would speed up privatisation and would positively influence privatisation, in the sense that he would stimulate it, because it envisions the exemption from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, the transfer of actions in the privatisation process and so on. What I'm going to say is simply about what I said at the beginning, which is that the reform process in the fiscal area must follow reforms in another area, so that the process of reforms that you are conducting must follow privatisation, which, unfortunately, is not what we expected, is slow. The privatisation law will have to endure certain changes, which the Democratic Party of Serbia has been suggesting for some time. The privatisation process has turned out to be insufficiently controlled. It is controlled and implemented by the Privatisation Agency and we also have the fact that the Serbian government has not created an environment for investment and privatisation, has not created strong institutions, there is still no rule of law and rule of law, there are no equal conditions for all, so privatisation is still not going as we would like. Of course, this has the consequences of everything else that pulls it back: the lack of investment, the production that does not grow as we would like and as we may have designed, and so on. The company's profit tax -- a solution advocated by the Democratic Party of Serbia, i.e. the DSS shadow government. I believe when you said in your opening statement that investors were happy to hear that this would come on the agenda of the National Assembly and probably be voted out, however I must say that in the area of investment we are not looking at that positive trend that perhaps you, as a man who conducts reform in the fiscal area, would collect taxes, expect. This is just one of the many measures that needs to be taken to make investments in this country. I'm afraid these measures, which you're introducing, are all of us, because the DSS will also vote for these laws, are lonely and not followed by some other factors that are necessary for them to give their real effect. That's about what some constructive criticisms of the DSS are, so it's not criticism specifically about these changes and the additions of this set of laws, it's about pointing out some facts that have to follow these changes and complement them and have to follow the whole fiscal reform and not actually follow them. In the end, I would point out what it is that, in our opinion, we should do and what it is that everything we need to do to make investments in this country, in order for privatisation to take place, in order to make a quality fight against the gray economy and smuggling and what is related to the fiscal area. It is, of course, the first fight against the cause and not the consequences we have, specifically as regards the fight against the gray economy and smuggling. In fact, concrete reasons are that we have complicated regulation, still high taxes and insufficiently strong institutions of the state. Furthermore, the real cure, it seems to me, as I did at first and said, which I think is your concept of tax reduction, reducing the rest of the single tax rate, reducing from 20% to an even lower tax rate, introducing value added tax, eliminating financial transaction taxes, introducing a synthetic income tax with a legal rate, getting rid of this sales tax and many more moves that need to be taken. In addition to all of this, and parallel to that, the moves that other resolutions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take, which is - constitutional reform, strengthening institutions, rule of law and the rule of law, trust in institutions, in order to implement all of this; if all of this is done, we will not be in a position to deal with partial moves anymore, simply there will be no need for that. In the end, I'm going to deliver this memo to you and expect you to answer this. This arrived late, this morning, in the premises of the parliamentary club, which is a letter from the Shareholder's Society "21 May" asking to abolish taxes paid by members of the holding company in the mutual business of 20%. I expect you to consider this and answer this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24343	There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24344	Dear Mrs Micic, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present on behalf of the MP group several, first of all, principles and later concrete views on the proposal to amend and supplement the tax legislation. First of all, I think that Minister Djelic, and perhaps the entire government, has unexpectedly found himself in a rather specific situation. First, because today a large number of MPs appear here for the word, both from the position and from the opposition, and very argumentably points to those failures or weaknesses of the proposed solutions which, according to the minister, should mean facilitating future life and the citizens and economy in total. Another problem obvious Minister Djelic with statistics. I agree that the Republic Statistics Institute does not fully express the economic facts about the lives of Serbian citizens, but it cannot be talked about in a way that when the data from the Statistics Office is responding to us, then we accept them and publicly announce them (such as data on how we can buy a consumer basket for one salary this year, that last year we could buy a poorer consumer basket, etc.)and on the other hand, when the same Bureau of Statistics says that our growth in industrial production is not to the extent planned for economic policy for 2002, then we say - the problem is in the Institute. Secondly, the minister told us today that we live much better and that if we measure all this over potatoes, we can buy more potatoes for one salary than we could last year. If I were to mention the word potatoes, I would remind Mr. Minister that just last year, as Serbia, as producers, we had a record potato production, but that thousands of tons of manufactured potatoes were dumped because we had no processing capacity, and on the other hand because our colleagues from G17 plus in the federal government allowed, please, import potatoes! It may not be known to Mr. Djelic, but it is known to citizens who are in good faith this year, as it is said, also produced large quantities of potatoes, but because of lack of processing capacity, they still have to sell it into depletion and thus cannot cover even part of the production costs of potatoes. Yes, gentlemen, you can comment on it in different ways, but if I tell you that even the static fertilizer in this country is being imported, then it's a problem that we all have to imagine, or we have to talk about what measures it takes to stimulate agricultural production and increase the livestock stock, so we can be exporters of static fertilizer. And specifically about some of the solutions that we are considering here today: all the bells are ringing about that in 2003 we will be significantly relieved of the tax duties we had; but, please, take the figures that I am proposing agreements on, based on the release or reduction of sales taxes on certain items, we will have three billion and 500 million less burden on taxpayers. Based on the profit tax -- about 3.1 billion dinars, but strained, as a billion and 900 million dinars are approximately the projected amount to be collected in the 2002 budget on the basis of the profit tax. As a result, the peace of mind minister could also suggest that in 2002 all taxpayers are exempt from the obligation to pay for profits. So, all taxpayers, not selectively, as suggested here. Take, say, sales tax; we're talking about it, and we think we've really achieved great success if we're going to end the sales tax on fat, oil and sugar. We of the SPS and the MPs in this assembly, of course, support every reduction and every release, but are we going to return with this tax policy, say, at the time of my childhood, when we were lurking fat on bread and poured sugar on the fat, and live on it? Are we going to protect our children in this way, or are we going to respect the amendments that are made here by both the position and the opposition, and end taxes on what children and children are concerned about? We had a release (as someone threw it to me, thinking about the time when the Socialists were in power). What about textbooks, what about school teachers, what about all the things that need to be made possible by how decent our children's lives are? Both the minister and all those who participated in the preparation of the bill know that these fat and sugar-based releases are not so generous and I don't know how much to cost the government of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, they know that as parents we must, whether we want to or not, train our children, send them to school, buy them textbooks, etc. We have a situation where, in my view, one unnecessary expense - the purchase of fiscal cash registers - is being introduced into the business of our business operators. In doing so, of course, the Socialists support the release of computers and software from sales taxes, but are we forgetting that these computers in the business process in every company, even in an independent trading business, can now function as a fiscal register? And why do we now force taxpayers to purchase fiscal cash registers, which we don't even know how much they're going to cost; certainly several hundred marks, or at least one hundred euros. The proposal, however, says the government in the budget will partially finance the purchase of fiscal cash registers. What does that really mean? This means that we will actually fund the burden of those citizens we did not want to free the sales tax on those things that life means to them and make life a better life. How are these fiscal tills going to work -- by me being a citizen, or my child, I'm going to have to keep an account. If I don't have it, then someone's gonna punish me with 1,000 dinars, even though I've marketed a pack of cigarettes or a newspaper, so 50 dinars; 20 times my sentence can be bigger because I don't have a bill. And why am I as a citizen bound to keep that account and what regulation, beyond what is proposed here, can make me keep that account to my house? What time does someone have the right to control it, right on their way out of the store? Does he even know when I bought the stuff that's in my basket, that I'm walking around town with? It doesn't say anything in the account, Mr. Djelic, if I don't have an account, and I have the right to destroy it, as well as to destroy a toll leaf when I get off the highway, so there's no one right to control me and ask me - where's that bill, because you went to Belgrade? And you tell me now, gentlemen, you, sir, will be punished with 1,000 dinars, which is more punishment than when I pass on to the red light. And every day you can punish me. From this small and minimal income, you want to subtract some more. Secondly, Mr Djelic, you should tell Mr Vlahovic that the issue of privatisation cannot be solved only by tax incentives of those who will buy shares, by exempting from property tax or by exempting taxes on the transfer of absolute rights based on the transfer of actions, but rather by changing the Privatisation Act, which is unsatisfactory for privatisation, first of all for our workers, the gamer in general. So, it's not about telling me -- you buy shares, so you don't pay taxes, but it's about getting into a situation like that, both as a man and as a worker, to earn that I can buy those shares. That's what this is about. Now we have a problem with statistics -- you're telling me that we have an average salary of 150 euros, then you trust statistics, and I'm telling you that we don't have 150 euros, but we actually have 150 marks of opposite value, because you know that from the time DOS comes to power to this day, the official inflation that you admit is 71%. How much should one mark be if it was worth two years ago 30 dinars, when 71% is added to that? 51 dinar. Where are the stimulations now where are the exact statistics? That's what this is about. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since I am running out of time for this part of the discussion, I suggest you make this minister, who and how he has good intentions, but has bad legal solutions, make him make a full tax law, in a way that will release exactly what is important to us and our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24345	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and the following is MP Zoran Nikolic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I did not expect in the course of the debate of a colleague who spoke before me about a package of these amendments to the tax laws, that with great seriousness or concern that MPs of opposition political parties would criticise this law to be observed by MPs from the Democratic Party and the rest of the DOS, the MPs' group of Reform Serbia (as it is called or as someone incorrectly said, and in fact, Serbia's Reform, decide on your correct name), because they themselves are aware of the fact that Djelic is from an alleged expert organisation, which is already a serious competition for the rest of the DOS, because slowly this G-17 plus, minus, as it is called, grows into a political party. The Minister is in the course of a two-day presentation, especially today at... Now, you shut up a little bit, Minister, from the bench, be nice when the MPs speak, because today we were exposed to your torturer for an hour to listen to your mini seminar, and I'm going to read you some copies of the stenogram, as you said today. If a man asked you, you'd say - I don't have a mild relationship, because that's your saying, you wouldn't know to repeat what you said today at the pay phone, because in this stenogram there are so many unconnected, unrelated things and sentences, that you absolutely can't believe it. You said, speaking of a list of foods, then a service and everything that falls under your reduction and a proposal for a sales tax, that this list is "harmonised", imagine, "with the sixth directive of the European Union and with something that is our reality, in terms of what is the base", so this stenographer doesn't know how and what, since it isn't, puts a cartoon and says -- diets, medicines, communals. "If you look at our citizens," you say, "food, medicines and communals, these things are of first-class importance" etc. and a series of insubordinate words like that. Mr. Minister, what you have suggested by reducing sales taxes is not enough to improve what you call the elastic consumer basket you are measuring today, as well as Prime Minister Djindjic, the standard of living in Serbia. Because you were visiting the state television last night telling a lie. You said that Serbian citizens don't like to work, that we're a lazy people, that we want to go home in two hours, that people stop at the workplace before that, and you forgot to say one very important thing, that since you're in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there's an increasing number of unemployed people and that people, especially young people, are from all the structures of education, qualifications, eager jobs, and that you simply don't let them do it because for the little ones, you're selling out our factories, you're firing people from work, and the plan is, as far as we know and you've told the citizens in person, to fire 800,000 employees. As far as sales taxes are concerned, the most basic things you didn't include are the reduction of the tax rate, because in order to have an efficient market economy, which is the basic principle of the economy, you need to know that first you need to enable people to work, which you don't do, but you fire them. On the other hand, what are services, and what is the biggest item for every household and budget, you continue to be burdened with high taxes, such as spent electricity for households. In Serbia, there are two million and two hundred thousand consumers, or electric numbers, and you need to explain to the citizens how it is possible, which is illegal and illegal, that in agreement with that also famous expert, Minister Kori Udovicki, you have also started to charge taxes for compensation, which you have unlawfully introduced and which is 76 dinars per month, and that is 15.25 dinars, or 20%. When a tax is added to that for spent electricity, which you averaged four times and nine times, if someone is in the red zone, increased by the last two years, then you come to one logical conclusion, not you, but all citizens who feel it on their skin -- that no one normal can pay. On the other hand, you must, Minister Djelic, agree your public expenditures with an acceptable level of public income, because if, as you said yesterday, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, you have so much falsified Serbian citizens since 2001 and have filled the budget so much, and you plan for the 2003 budget to be, believe it or not, about 260 billion dinars with a budget deficit of 46 billion dinars, then step out nicely and don't say such unsolicited things, but tell the citizens of Serbia -- I came to Serbia to tear your skin, to continue to prescribe you such high tax rates that you can't pay. And, most importantly, you too, Mr Djelic, and many others in the Republic Public Revenue Administration, will have to be responsible for all your responsibility and your Alexander Radovic, who was at the post, to answer because you continue to charge a tight interest of 0.2% per day on unpaid taxes from 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24347	People's MP Branislav Ivkovic, the second entry for the word as the president of the National Socialist Group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have six amendments in front of us and an addition to the laws of the so-called so-called law. the tax package, which is logically followed by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Of course, the group of National Socialists and how it supports all those moves that go towards discharging citizens and businesses in tax reduction, but we can also point out that, a year or two ago, we all pointed out to a resolute minister the unwarranted introduction of these tax rates that are now shrinking. Of course we support the requirements to disperse the area of textbooks, primarily professional literature, software use and computers. However, I would point here to a thread that follows from the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is also felt here, which I think very few MPs do. It refers to the exemption of taxes on personal incomes of citizens who entered the form of privatisation. In fact, Serbs can stand under one pear, if this prophecy is realised, but Serbs did not fall from the pear and those people who entered the privatisation process, who in the privatisation process make a certain profit, will certainly make the profit as their income, as it is Mr Djelic who releases them from the tax obligations in the amount in which they pay the payments to enter the privatisation process. So, if someone bought 60 million dinars per five years of a given company and had to pay 12 million dinars a year for that privatisation, he would certainly, because he did not fall from the pear, display those 12 million as a profit tax, or he will present as his own personal income, and will be effectively released according to that principle, because he was exempt from the personal income tax. What's going on? In the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we have come across a decree that every citizen of this country has an obligation to report his property by 1 June of next year, if it is more than 20 million dinars. That application was defined in that law as a form of record and nothing else. So, we find ourselves in a position that now someone who has acquired significant assets in the past has the right to register and actually be taxed, or who asks him why and how he acquired that property. You've introduced the Extraprofit Act, Mr. Minister, retroactiveness, and you've found an excuse for that. Why didn't you introduce retroactiveness here, too, to see someone explain how they got those 20, 30, 100 or 200 million dinars, because it only gets value when these same people show up and buy, for example, a paint factory in Sapac for 70 million dinars and neither you nor Minister Vlahovic ask them where they got the money and how they got that money. They buy it, they buy it on five years of war by 12 million, and you're still here in this law, free them from personal income taxes. Of course, they will portray the company's profits as their own income and, in fact, will be released. When all of this is added together, then it doesn't look good when someone tries engineering to heart:2 and 2 = 4. Personally, if you've already taken a bite in the Extraprofit Act, you went retroactively, there to those who institutionally acquired the house, for example, as one of the MPs here, and then you sell your son an apartment to pay an extra profit with 200,000 marks, so let's do it. But if you said that someone reported property worth more than 20, 30 or 100 million dinars, why didn't you say to prove that they acquired that property, whether they had tax returns, whether they were working abroad, whether they were carrying out certain investment works outside, etc., rather than going to someone who had more than 20 million, that they had 100 million, 200 million, reported their property in fact to have amnesty for the past. I think you're good at introducing a tax tax system, and I welcome that system. Without a good tax policy, there is no stable state. Here you have the support of the National Socialists. The problem is that these people are starting to pay taxes only on the difference between what they've already acquired, what you're legalizing them and what they're going to gain on the basis of what they've acquired before, and they haven't proven that they've acquired it legally. So, in the Extraprofit Act, you've hooked up one-seven acquisitions, institutional flows, and six-six-seven acquisitions, which is a gray economy, you haven't stepped on. In fact, someone who has a 1,000-square house and a pool doesn't have to show if he was trading, smuggling oil, or otherwise, he got it. You're legalizing it for him, and you're just preparing him to be a taxpayer. I think there should have been a wiser solution, especially if a small number of people -- 50 or 100 people, appear as buyers in the privatisation process. These same people, who now only register their assets with you and are just preparing to be taxpayers in the future, appear in the privatisation process, buy businesses, buy them in five-year, six-year wars, and you are now releasing them from the personal income tax. It is clear that they will gain these companies that they have bought as their personal income in the height of the war for which they are due to pay the state for privatisation. In the end, they have additional stimulation and, in fact, they are in a much better position. So our suggestion is to submit to the amendment, to go into a more rigorous analysis of the capital that someone has. It is known that this does not have a large number of citizens of this country, it is about 100 - 200 citizens of this country. Shake them out nicely, let them see how they've acquired the property. If they acquired it during difficult times when it was an embargo, so they did certain jobs, some of them, but don't further release them now when they become company owners, especially when they have to have, above all, the task of having social programs for these companies and that workers, who are fired because of technological surpluses, must have social programmes to provide social and material security. In any case, on behalf of the National Socialists, I commend something that may seem like an ex-post mind, but it's a good thing that taxes on essential products are being released for citizens. It's a good move for you as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia. We support all those amendments relating to the essential elements of a family's life, especially when it comes to children. We are in a country that has terrible problems with birth and in which the social programme is not well. It is certain that we have to create space, where the state can, do tax exemptions and textbooks, learn, children's clothing and shoes, and, of course, what entering the world is, and that's computer technology and software.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24349	The Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24350	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to answer a few questions that have been answered today in this search and thank you for the participation of many Members. I'll take fiscal forms. The suggestion to reduce the rate of sales tax is, of course, interesting and personal I would be the happiest if we could do it right now. There's only one small problem, and that's the public finance balance problem. There's only one thing worse than high taxes, and that's that we have deficits that can't be controlled. If someone wants us to have a 10% sales tax, that person has to explain how we're going to make up for 45 billion dinars, how much that reduction would do. You will see, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the sales tax planned, as regards part of Serbia's budget, is 89.4 billion dinars. One percent, that's 4.45 billion dinars, and even come down from 20 to 17%, that would be 13.4 billion dinars. So, even one third more than the whole package that's proposed at this point. Of course, that idea is, as I have repeatedly suggested, and how interesting and acceptable. The proposal we have is to try, as we have done in the last two years, as soon as this tax reduction space is found, to focus it on these two key fiscal forms which are sales tax and wage tax, wage tax and impose social contributions. So that's why I'm finding around that element of the reduction rate, whether the big difference would be for our citizens 1% -- it would be because every percentage is important, but only that 1% would mean 4.45 billion dinars. The question is, would it have such a bigger effect, going from 20 to 19%, to the gray economy itself? I don't think so. As for sales tax and wage tax, I think it would be better to do a lot of work on the revenue side next year, to increase the tax base as much as possible, and to restructure on the bulky side, streamlining through the merger of what needs to be combined between federal and republican authorities, abolishing some federal authorities and abolishing some republican authorities and in existing bodies maximum savings, where possible. We have seen what can be done in the domain of medicines, especially in Kragujevac, when order is introduced in our country and when we begin to manage our resources better. That's why it seems to me that it would be better for next year at the opportunised moment, when it is found, as it is now, the moment and there are the right MPs who have noticed it, the idea is not to collect more income than it should, but as soon as we see that we are still in balance, that this fiscal system better gives by expanding the basics, to immediately reduce tax or abolish some tax, to keep that public spending, which is already at a rather high level, at some acceptable level. So, if God does, I'll see you in the middle or at the end of next year. For further tax cuts, this time two key fiscal forms will be sales tax and impose wages. As for these queens and bees, I mean, and I talked to my associates, so that shouldn't be a problem. We'll do something about it. As for the elimination of sales taxes on oil, it's not a few dinars, it's 12 dinars per litre. That surprised me a little bit. We're a country that spends on average family as much as six liters a month, which means 60 dinars a month, and that's why it doesn't have to be done. As far as late payments are concerned, I can say that in this debate over sales taxes, many of those businessmen who wanted to make a move in the period in which sales tax should be paid. Put your hands on your heart, if you look at what's really going on here, in one economy, when sales tax is calculated and has to be paid within 15-20 days and where payment deadlines are unfortunately too long (60 and very often 90-120 days), I hesitate to say that at this point in time the economy really credits the state. As soon as you have a harmonisation between the period of paying taxes and paying in the economy, then the economy sort of lends to the state and it's not a good situation. Hand to heart, in all countries, it is so, where the period for paying taxes is much shorter than what is the period for paying in the economy. With us, that gap is quite pronounced. When I said that, why don't we move on. First, we can't just extend it for some, not others. This would violate neutrality; why for those who produce wine, not for those who produce coal, why for those who produce children's clothing, and not for those who produce something else or some computers. If we do this for others, we need to be aware that our public finances are balanced, but that balance is not a balance to have a big mattress and some reserves. Every month, the tester leaves. On the fifth and tenth, sales tax is paid and the first half of pensions and salaries are paid at that point, and then the second half is paid. In this way, we are able to maintain regular payouts, pensions and everything that our budget users expect. If we gave in for four or five days, we wouldn't be able to pay half our pensions at any time. I don't think that would be good. That is why at this point and because of the balance of our public finances, although it would be a good idea, we are unable to extend this deadline. The gap between payment deadlines that citizens and businesses give to the state should be reduced and the deadlines set for them. As for the fiscal registers, I don't think it's missed any MPs. This is so important that we have decided to propose to you in the Budget Law, which we will discuss by 15 December at the latest in this house: 500 million dinars of subsidies are provided for traders and for the purchase of fiscal cash registers. They were quite expensive when, in the early 1990s, many countries in transition began to introduce it. However, the production is now quite widespread and has many suppliers. The competition is fierce. Of course, we will not repeat the mistake they made in Montenegro, when they authorised only one supplier, because then the price was higher. We will only give in this public procurement minimum technical conditions and, of course, how it works; not only with EI Nis, but with some other of our producers, to enable them and how they can participate in this competition and production. Of course, if we are talking about subsidies for the purchase of fiscal cash registers, it means that there must be a way of funding, so that at no time those who have a trade or a smaller trade are not threatened by the purchase of that cash register. Of course, it will be one of the key routes we're working on with our colleagues from the Department of Commerce. As far as tax on additional value, you said and the truth is that we are the last country in Europe with Montenegro, if we are still in one country, two Member States, which do not have an additional tax. The truth is, we have assumptions that must exist. Not only that, we need to secure some infrastructure. Fiscal cash registers are infrastructures for introducing additional value tax. In this way we will be able through this and through some other elements in our fiscal system to effectively introduce a tax on additional value at the end of next year. As I mentioned, at that point, hopefully, we'll be able to reduce that rate that will be unique. As for the law on the income of citizens and farmers, which was a question that I did not answer earlier, Ipke, the president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has set up, it is true that since 1994, the catastar's income has been restructured. Today, farmers themselves say the tax is very low. It's barely a few dozen dinars, and many have agreed, when we had a very sharp discussion about their pensions, a pension system that they don't accept, they're ready and we've launched an initiative to revolve the catastrian income, as the most just way of taxing our farmers. In this way this low rate and this revaluation will lead to someone acceptable but not so absurdly low in taxes for farmers. At the same time, we must work on social contributions. Finally, let's look at the company's profit tax, and that was the question of the president or vice president of the Soviet Union. I think there's an item that's not familiar enough, and I was even surprised to see that some of our sports workers didn't hear about it, and that's what you voted in April last year. It is that as much as 3.5% do not get, the entire company's income can be invested in sponsorship with our sports companies and it is deductible from the company's profit tax. It is the most favourable system that exists in Europe. Of course, until there was a lot of profit, it wasn't that interesting. It's the way sport, both amateur and professional, will get those sponsors he needs to develop. With regard to this issue of benefits and benefits in terms of the exemption from dividend tax in the amount of payment of the war in the privatisation process, it is only one equalisation between natural and legal persons. In no case does that give any extra advantage to legal persons. It's just that we don't violate the principle of neutrality. As I said earlier today, far from giving this measure an extra boost to those who have cash and a lot of cash, rather than having to expand the circle of people who will be able to propose a programme and participate in auction companies. Finally, when we talk about excises, if we talk about oil, oil oil, of course we were sensitive to the arguments that came from Kruševec. We've agreed these 45 dinars with FAM, and that's an acceptable imposition. We hear they'd want 10, which is extremely low. Of course, it's not a small income, it's about 1.5 billion dinars a year. So divide it by four and you'll see that it's hundreds of millions of dinars. I think that at that level the incentive for smuggling will be much smaller and that with better border control, I think we'll have a more pronounced effect on FAM and some of our other manufacturers. As for wine, it is true that there is no excise on wine in Montenegro. It is true that they give a strong boost to their production. It is true that our producers have a lot of problems, and that is one of the less beautiful things in our contract with Macedonia on free trade. On the other hand, Macedonia is the only country (besides Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't know which third country) with which we have a surplus in foreign trade. But it's a little surplus. When we look at the balance of it, it is that our producers have a problem with Macedonian wine competition. On the other hand, as an economy, we have a lot to gain from having a very free trade with Macedonia. The truth is that this year we introduced first aids for wine production in the agricultural budget. I could say, and that's where I would conclude this part of excise duty, that we're going to propose by the end of the year a new excise law, which should lead to some compliance with Montenegro, with the environment, so that the pressure on smuggling is reduced and we're going to adopt some solutions that are going to be something more modern. In that case, we'll talk about it again. The last thing I'd like to say is, it was a question and someone wanted to talk about Laffer's guilt and get into some controversy here. Experience suggests that "Laferic" in Serbia starts at 20%. A citizen's awareness of the need to pay taxes above 20% of the cost. That's our reality. We have to appreciate that. That doesn't mean it'll always be like that. Not true, as some Radical Party MP said, these are not average rates, but marginal income tax rates around 90%. That's no longer the case, almost nowhere more than 50%. We also need to respect the situation in our administrations and the possibility, given what we inherited -- a huge share of cash. Cash and its participation in the M-1 monetary mass, which means in a broader sense, is as much as 40% in our country. It's a record of Europe, 40%. That's what we inherited and what we need to deal with in terms of strengthening financial discipline. Believe me, in a country where 40% of the money is in cash circulation, please try to charge 45 or 50% of the rate, I wish you a lot of success. So that's one thing, there must be such rates on the other hand such discipline and such punishment that, after all, when one hard cold bill is made, all taxpayers know it's in their interest to pay for it. And that's why I don't think there's room here for any excessive, demagogue or debate. Finally, and I conclude, of course, that everyone has the right to express their opinion, that it's interesting to hear some say that tax cuts aren't something, that the reduction from 20% to 14% is not much, but when I hear it from the mouth of those who ran the country in the '90s, when the prices were controlled, but the oil, the sugars weren't, when our citizens were humiliated (and my family), when they had to get up at three and four in the morning to go with the emperor and they couldn't find it, so they were connections, so they were schemes, so it was profit, so then you get those extraprofeiters that you're now attacking...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-20-0.u24351	I would like to thank Mr. Minister and the MPs present. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
