ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24693	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the final budget bill for 2001 as well as any final account, since there is no report on the work, is an actual state of play in the work of the ministries and the government in the previous year. Given that we've dealt with the past a lot yesterday, I think it's time and through this final account report, and also through budget rebalance for 2002, budget corrections with a memorandum for the next three years. Indeed, I expected Mr. Djelic to start a global picture of what the government met last year, the results for this year and the projections for next year to have a complete picture for the debate and what our citizens expect. However, each steam session of this assembly ends before the agenda is adopted. At this point, and this delay is indeed a major obstacle for all those who wish to participate in the work of this Parliament. For the first time, no final account was adopted and on the regular agenda proposed for this session, a final budget account for 2001 was found, and perhaps through reports, as it was again on the agenda in 2000, a report will be found for some of the previous, possibly postwar ones since 1945. I would like to say, since Minister Djelic is not here, that once the final bill was adopted by the executive body whether the municipalities or the Republic, after a lecture on the first day of February 28th, the SDK inspection was in the final account. When the final account of the Serbian Assembly was adopted by the end of June and the Assembly of municipalities by the end of May, a report on the control of the social-political community budget was adopted with a decision on the final account. This means that there was a legal obligation and that the legal obligation was respected by social accounting. So I can say, it is not true that business controls and final account funds, or budgets for the current years, have not been carried out in the previous period. I think comparing the reports and the final bill for 2000 and 2001 can bring out great similarities, but a big difference in political assessments. I think that several times removing this report has actually contributed to just doing some political evaluations, regardless of what is written in the final accounts. I can say that, and I think we'll all agree that it's true that this government, currently current, has adopted a decision and has proposed a decision on the final bill for 2000 as well as for 2001. And if both the Ministry of Finance did so and the other final account, the same ministry that proposed it, that is, did the final account for 2000 and 2001, and I don't think there were even any major personal changes in that ministry. After six months of first reading, no more digits in any account, not for 2000, not for 2001. The government's resolution, both the transitional and the current government, has rebalanced the budget for both 2000 and 2001, which means that both governments have harmonised the volume of funds spent, deliberately harmonized the volume of funds spent with the 31.12 with the plan, which is obviously visible in the final account for both 2000 and 2001. The budget deficit planned for 2001 was 90%, and around 22 billion was covered by an additional citizen fine, revenue achieved is 16.2% higher than planned. The increased revenues from the traffic tax are 8 billion or 27.2% compared to the plan. Income tax 6 billion and other incomes 3 billion. This means that the budget deficit was only on paper with imaginary privatisation cover, given that the income achieved on that basis was zero in 2001, from foreign loans and part from donations where significantly less funds were achieved than planned. So the budget deficit is covered by real resources and domestic loans from the NBJ. The effects of your famous tax policy can be easily seen in the fact that the revenues achieved in the first quarter of 2001 amounted to 13.9 billion dinars, and after tax reforms averaged 37040 per month. So three times the revenue achieved in other quarters compared to the beginning of the year. Some positive effects from the impact on the achievement of higher revenues compared to the plan, higher inflation rates, higher wages, strengthening financial discipline, reducing oil and cigarettes smuggling are additional effects, but the much higher effects in achieving revenues are increasing rates, reducing tax incentives and centralising budgetary incomes, that is. It is also true that the more transparent final account for 2000 is the latest package that we had these days on 282 pages with the 1996-1999 Report, and the completed bill for 2001 with the addition of expenditure per split, which was the basis for the work of ministries by division is the work of individual ministries and the cost of funds, all on 74 pages. Budget requirements for business books are up 5.5 times 31. 12 versus 1. 1. In 2001, they amount to 6.1 billion dinars, resulting in loans for the purchase of wheat, a loan for the deblockation of the giro accounts of depositors, restitution banks, and even an EPS union of 1.8 million dinars. This is no longer illegal work, and even though the agreed interest on loans is not accounted for and charged, the same findings for 2000 are therefore unlawful and unintended use of funds. On page 39 of the reasons, the transfer of the relevant assets of those users is not in agreement with Article 6. The 2001 Budget Law, since the budget expenditure schedule for those purposes is not foreseen. In the same period as Article 39, these loans could not be granted for the reasons that the budget had reached and the unsettled obligations and that the Government had not decided on. Mr. Minister, for you, breaking only two basic laws does not represent the illegal use of the 2001 budget. The budgets representing illegal use are also funds spent more than the government's solution. Even more drastic violation of the law is written on 41 pages. The Ministry of Finance and Economy did not provide the budget users with data on previous month's salaries when submitting payment requests. This form was not officially even prescribed, although the commitment by Mr. Minister was established by the Budget Law. Where are the sanctions now, if you have taken measures for the previous year and against those who have not delivered the plans. Global estimates of the 2001 final budget account are also estimates of the success of macroeconomic and financial policy, which are misty written. What lies in the numbers that are subject to control, I think we should make a decision about an organization that will carry out external control, and I'd only visit two questions. Why the reduced incomes are on the basis of contributions to pension and health insurance, so the budget funds are increased for pension payments, so the funds are increased to 21 billion from 13, as planned and why the salary growth of the budget user is realistically 5.5% to 9% in education, justice and state bodies, and only at the Ministry of Interior Salaries is actually down by 9%.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24694	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. We move to debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. He's not there. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević. He's not there. The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, and the next one registered for the word is National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24695	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Ministers, in the 2001 report on the implementation of the budget for the budget revenues achieved, very unusual explanations have been given. The results of the 2001 budget were influenced by the following factors: tax system reform, countering the grey economy, achieved, underlining the word achieved, inflation higher than expected and higher prices than expected. We all know that the tax system reform didn't actually happen. Only a package of bad tax laws was passed, which the government itself did several weeks ago with numerous amendments and additions. It didn't even happen to contain the gray economy. She's only less visible for now. No gas is sold on the street, no cigarettes on sidewalks, but certain groups continue to traffic fuel and cigarettes, as well as in many other areas in Serbia. The government can only credit the government for its merits for the greater achievement of inflation than expected and higher price increases than expected. In this field, they did a real job, so budget revenues came in as streams and overpoured the budget framework thanks to major inflation and enormous price hikes. May God and the Government spare us these successes in realising the budget in the future. In the report, there is a wide distribution of salaries of employees in state bodies and organisations. Half last year, it went a new way of calculating wages, to the gross system. Practically net employee salaries have been reduced somewhat since 1 June 2001, but have run out of food fees during work and no regress for vacations. The average salary at the local self-government was 7,000 dinars last year, and today it's about 9,000 dinars. With such a miserable salary and high inflation and prices employed in the public sector, they can barely survive. All of them can be treated as people below the poverty line, or social cases. The prime minister and the government are being redeemed for being unpopular, and they have literally led to a begging stick employed by state authorities, justice, health, education and culture. Gentlemen, about a million people in this country are starving. If another million and a half pensioners are added to this, which are reduced to so-called abolishing it turns out that half of Serbia's population is against the government for the most banal reason, they have nothing to live on. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2001 report on the control of the Republic of Serbia's budget, it has been found that budget users are still not disciplined, and that they have been subject to a number of criminal charges and applications for economic crime. However, as for the period from 1996 to 1999, no names were given again after that first variant, everything remained completely faceless and completely general, and the report listed significant unpaid commitments, including commitments to the Federation's budget of 350 million dinars. Whether it is repeated in 1989, when Serbia entered the Federation's budget and thus practically began the monetary collapse of then-Yugoslavia. The government sincerely advocates the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, however, by doing so the current and future federal state is financially undermining and destroying. The 2001 budget is raised in a single large sentence, income generated by extraprofits, billions and 220 million dinars. The money was spent mainly on shutting down burning social problems. However, the money was to be kept in the register, to be returned to Karic after the Serbian Supreme Court's decision, where the government will now return the money, possibly from the 2003 budget. The report on the work of the budgetary inspection is interesting because we find a whole series of cases of illegal and incorrect availability of budgets in 2001, which bear such picturesque names: non-intentionally spent funds, non-purposely used solidarity, illegal use of funds, unlawfully implemented compensations, unpaid incomes, unpaid taxes and contributions, illegal round-up and placement of funds in business banks, illegal borrowing of ministries in business banks, etc. All in all, this is how 15 billion dinars or a million marks are squandered, as the report says. I don't know what bill it says in the report. It's the only thing that isn't written that people have done all this at the time of the new government, when everything is "transparent," as that government likes to say. At least they said which ministers decided to illegally charge themselves with business banks. It would be their turn to resign here today, if they would not already bear the consequences prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24696	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The next person registered for the word is MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group absolutely cannot accept this bill on the final budget bill for 2001, and this one, least of all, is the shur Report that Minister Pitic also waved to us yesterday, which is present here today, and Minister Djelic. He's got a lot of stuff in him. Today is the time to start talking about you and how you started projectioning the budget by spending people's money in 2001, bringing so-called. Experts in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which primarily refers to Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic. First, I must say that this budget was exposed to the strictest criticism of Serbian radicals, when it was adopted, only sometime in March 2001. Don't forget, this budget referred to a shortened budget year, only nine months, because after a five-octobaric coup and after your unconstitutional behaviour and takeover of power in our country, you started spending people's money, temporarily financing yourself until the establishment of this unfortunate and corrupt Djindjic government, and only then the adoption of the budget, in March of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24698	National MPs, Natasa Jovanovic, give you my first warning, on the basis of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask you to take care of your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24699	The assessment of the work of the Republic government is not a matter of my free judgment, Ms. Micic, but based on results and based on what we are today ready to tell you here. If it hurts the truth, it's another thing. However, concrete facts and, above all, a report that says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is projecting a budget of 129 billion, so six times larger than the one you spoke of yesterday, which you wrote 300 pages about, shooting blanks with some empty story that you've ever had, all for the sake of discrediting your political inexplicables. Today the numbers are very different and real. That's what Serbian citizens should know, where you started, by taking over power in Serbia, to spend non-intentional money on budget users, from citizens of Serbia who have been severely singled out by them. In this report, Minister Djelic praised that the 2001 crackdown on the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget was accelerated thanks to his package of tax laws. What a smart man is ashamed of, you know how the people's proverb goes. However, you should know that Serbian citizens cannot forgive such high fines that they are not able to pay today. First of all, they cannot reconcile with the fact that, issuing Serbian national interests, and above all, leading a policy that went to the site of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, giving half a billion dinars to Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic, has done a lot of damage to the Serbian people and three southern Serb municipalities: Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to accept an item that speaks of a billion and a half dinars in the budget for so-called. The land's security zone, when it learns that this same Nebojsa Covic, with the approval of all of you from DOS oligarchy, decided at the end of 2001 that our army would withdraw from the land's security zone. When they occur, after the occupation of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, their even greater torment, persecution, murder, everything that does not touch you and that you did not want to solve. It's amazing that the ministers, which you say the experts are such illiterate reports. If, in the report on the conduct of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in the application of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, you write that the Ministry of Finance and Economy, budget users did not, when submitting payment requests, also provide data on the payments made for the previous month, ask the question -- which is the majority in the Government of the Republic of Serbia dare, if there is no report on salaries paid for the previous month, to sign a payment order for the next salaries. One big question and an answer for Minister Pitic to explain. Yesterday, one of our MPs, in a very nice, but also the right way, asked, fellow Janjic, by obtaining from the bench minister, and he pretended not to have heard it - where, Mr Piticu, two and a half billion dinars that you received from donations that were not shown in your Report, have been allocated to the budget, as you say and transferred to the next financial year. What you owe, as a government that has shown so much inconclusiveness for the past two years, to tell us where you hold these non-performing assets and which are the business banks with which the Government of the Republic of Serbia cooperates and whose decision. After all, through the speeches of the next colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, we will search the point by point to see how you illegally and unintendedly spent people's money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24700	First in line, the president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative, Mrs Nada Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24701	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, fellow MPs, when it comes to people's proverbs, then those who cannot understand memorize what others tell them. The truth works, even though it's memorized, it's not bad to learn facts by heart. So, the fact is that the previous government, working for the interests of Albanians, led to Kosovo and Metohija being given under international administration, documents signed by the previous government. Also, the fact is that the Kumanovski Agreement formed the area of security, land and air, which was also signed by the previous government. So the question is, how much money did whoever signed it get, how much money did Serbia lose because they sold Kosovo and Metohija and the southern part of Serbia. The question is, how much money do they think they're worth trying to fix what they did? So this is about these attacks having one single target and one single reason. That's what's trying to cover up treason of state interest. Some imagine that because of this betrayal of state interest, they will answer only to voters. I am deeply convinced that they will answer to the courts and will not be tried by citizens with their votes, but will be tried by the courts by law, because it is a crime that does not obsess over treason of state and national interests. And, however we hope they will be able to count on citizens to decide their fate, the courts will decide. So, losing tens of thousands of square miles of state space is a national betrayal, banishing hundreds of thousands of Serbs from their hearths is a Nazi betrayal. To challenge the country's bombing is a national betrayal, causing tens of thousands of victims and lost lives, gentlemen, is a national betrayal. If you're talking now about whether too much money has been given to eliminate the land's security zone, which you created, this land's security zone, namely, meant that Serbia was expelled from that territory by your merit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24702	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24703	A Serb soldier and a Serb police officer were expelled from that territory. If you think it's too much, then tell us how much you've got to lose it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24704	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24705	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this bill should be passed, and in this respect, your attention and public attention I want to present the following arguments and facts - first of all, the total revenue of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget was 125 billion, expenditures are 127. The deficit of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget, amounting to two billion and 270 million, follows. The fact that there is a deficit in the budget requires that this report be studied in detail, and the study of the report generates a number of questions, which should be given a decadent answer. I will, because of the shortness of time, which is at my disposal, just some of these questions to accentuate, in order to illustrate how it was done, get an answer -- why did it work like that? First of all, I want to say that there is a significant breakthrough in the planned costs of division VI - Ministry of Finance and Economy. We can see it's about pension and disability insurance. But we also see that we've been saving on the Social Fund for one-time assistance. We see that we've been saving on the labour market fund, we see that we've been saving on funds for AP Kosovo and Metohija, and of course, my question is - why and was it a rational business? We also see in the division of JI - the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, that we have a breach of costs again. And we have a cost breach based on the salary, so my question is, have we received more people than it was at first, so that's the reason for the break-in, or have these people been paid better, and we also see that some traffic programs have been done 35-36% more, so the question is, why and what was going on about it? The same question can also be asked for the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. On the other hand, when we look at what was going on at the Ministry of Education and Sports, we see that we've been saving on the development and reform of the education system, maybe so we can pay there, we can see that we've been saving on student loans, talent and scholarships, and here we've given less, I guess again to fix our salaries, so we haven't had enough, but we've also taken from student loans, talent and scholarships, and there we've been saving up to probably raise our salaries there. And finally, in the youth care program, we saved up here, so we could move back somewhere else. On the other hand, I'm a believer, so I'm celebrating fame, but I don't understand why we had to spend more than we planned in the Department of Culture and Ecology to save. Is it so we can spend more here? It is also devastating to see that we have also been saving in this section relating to the Commissioner for Refugees. So 898 million were to be spent, and 509 were spent. My question is why, did we return refugees to Kosovo, or Krajina, so we had less costs, or is it because we didn't plan well, or is it because we gave them less than we did? Anyway, that requires an answer. That budget is said to have been financed by a loan, a loan from the NBJ, and that's what we heard in the 2000 report as a ancient heresy, how do we borrow it? It is also said that the characteristic of the achievement of income is etc. And that inflation was bigger than planned, so that's what we said, please, there are stenographic notes. We said inflation would be bigger than planned, but no one cared about it. Finally, the tax reform in the field of profit taxation was the goal of discharging the economy, and immediately on the next side said that the corporate profit tax was achieved by 54% higher, with 154%, that the income tax was achieved by 23% higher, that the personal income tax was achieved by 25% higher. So that's how the income was achieved. So, taxpayers, people said, paid it as "wolves of skin," as they say. We've been saving, of course, and where it shouldn't be damaged, on cultural means, on resources for physical culture. Just remember how many medals we've brought in this year and years ago, and we've been saving, of course, on the resources planned for science, technology and development, because I guess that doesn't matter, either, they're going to give us some donations, so we're going to make up for that "Zev" when it comes to the development of science and technology. And finally, in a few sentences, I have to look back on the report of the Budgetary Commission, (he's an integral part of this report) because we had that in what we had for 2000. It says here - the Republic Fund of PIO has been transferred funds to pay pensions, etc. No one disputes anything, but it is said further - the transfer of the funds in question to those users is not in agreement with Article 6. The basis for the transfer of those funds was neither at point 5. So, just for the record, we've been doing something that has no basis in the law. Then further - the transfer of funds to direct budget users was made on the basis of a request from the budget users, on a form made up by the ministry, and the form is not officially prescribed, although the obligation has been established by that member as well. And then -- the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget provides for budget users, who make savings, etc. 10%, they can pay it in salaries, and then the next sentence says -- but it can't be determined. So anyone could have paid whatever they wanted, if it couldn't be determined. And finally, I would leave an opportunity for my colleagues to talk about it too, it is said - according to budget users who have failed to comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 10, 20, 21 and 22. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 has not been applied to suspending further transfers of funds. Finally, it is said -- in the case of current and permanent budget reserves, on the basis of an audit of accounting records and documentation on the co-financing of beating budget reserves, it was found that the funds of the current budget reserve were used within the amount of the government's intended solutions during 2001. And already in the next indent, it says that in several cases the funds of the current budget reserve were used in excess of the amount envisaged by the government's solution. So make up your mind, gentlemen Proposers, is this it, or what? Tell me what it is. Finally, the government's decision of February 2002 set the amounts to cover several payments made, on the burden of the funds of the current budget reserve, compared to the government's existing solution. The government's solution has not been approved, signed and published in the Official Messenger. Well, cheers. For this yesterday, or for that matter, there were a dozen criminal, criminal, and I don't know what kind of charges. I'm not up for rematch, but let's all have the same criteria and the same sense of measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24706	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, acting as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my basic objection is - why are we not having the 2001 Final Account Report on 300 pages, as we had for 2000? You ran out of papers, looks like Ministers, in the government. He didn't have anyone to write, what happened, so now we don't have a report on 300 pages? (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: because we don't have a thief) What thief is Milka talking about? I haven't mentioned Covic yet, Milka, don't do anything in advance, nothing in advance. As for Covic, today we are talking about spending 500 million dinars for 2001. For other things, we will discuss this at other points of the agenda, elsewhere, and so on, including courts and public prosecutors. There is no sign of Nebojsa Covic spending 500 million dinars in 2001. Here, it is only found that Covic spent 500 million dinars and nothing more, or 498 and something. He saved a million dollars. But where did he spend that 499 million? That's the key question. Don't defend Covic here with demagogue what anyone has done in Kosovo, what he has done in southern Serbia. That's what the Serbs there know best. What my role was for all this time in Kosovo and Metohija, the fact that I also received 58% of the votes this time. Let's see how things are in southern Serbia. In Medvedja, I got 51%, Kostunica 43%...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24708	We've heard it on the media a hundred times...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24709	No, you haven't heard of Bear, I guarantee you haven't heard of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24710	No, you can't talk about election results, you hold a press conference in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24711	I'm talking about southern Serbia. Why didn't you warn the little speaker here that he couldn't talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24712	It was a straight line, you know how many years you've been in Parliament, you know there's no agenda theme on the line, and you've come forward as head of the parliamentary group and you have to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24713	I don't know who she's replicated to, but Serbs living in southern Serbia are most bitter by the behaviour of Nebojka Covic and the way he spends his budget money. That's the point. They also show their indignation to Covic by voting in the elections. Serbs in Bujanovac, 66% for me, and for Covic's candidate, for Kostunica much less. It says how much the Serbs there trust in Covic's availability of state money and its ultimate goals for which he used the money. In Presevo 60%, what does that mean? You have nothing to say, the Serbs there know best, the Serbs there know how Covic is scattered with budget money and where is the financial inspection to file the report? Where the ministers report for these 500 million, as spent, Sinisha, let the minister listen to me, the minister is here primarily to listen to the opposition, the opposition criticises the report, do not disturb him. Why isn't it detailed here - Covic spent 20 million there, 30 there, 15 here and so on? That's the meaning of the final bill. In this final account, not only for Covic, but also for all the other ministers and government services, you only stated that they spent the money, as much as they had planned, spent so much, and some were transferred within a given division and so on. It's not a final account report. We've got more and less reports on why this isn't your transparent minister, so you know every item. You see how much money was spent by the Home Office. We know how to get new uniforms, equipment, lighters, shakers, what's bought, so it's nice to say, new uniforms so much, lighters so much, listening devices so much, this so much, that so much and so much. That's the meaning of the final account report, so let's see if anyone spent that money past the budget, past the law, and in what amount. Why the budget inspection didn't do its job for 2001, she had time. (Milisav Petkovic, from the scene: no thief. ) It's preconceived, there's no thieving, so it doesn't have to do a budget inspection, right? Since you're convinced, you know yourself best, then why didn't you disband that financial inspection, budget inspection, disband nicely and say -- here, now this is power without thieving, no crime, no problem, you don't need the police at all, don't you, right? Here, Djelic agrees. Djelic told us here, I watched in the stenogram, his opening presentation, how the budget inspection worked independently and without pressure. That's not true. The real drama took place in a budget inspection, and I have these data, constant pressures against whom criminal charges will be filed, criminal charges, what they should contain, and so on. One drama is created there, so it is done without any indication, without any evidence, and then, of course, problems in courts. Why didn't you do this job that tangled you the most, why didn't you play it? Let's see what happened, for example, with your travel expenses. How is it possible, Alexander Radovic, in 2001, to travel abroad a hundred times? How is that possible and that she has not responded to the budget inspection? He's traveled abroad a hundred times, whether 96 or 102 times, I don't know for sure, but I have data. State money traveled about a hundred times officially abroad. Furthermore, no government conclusions on travel abroad, Alexander Radovic, had anything, I don't know what Mr. Minister is like between you and Radovic and whether you paid him money for those trips without the government's conclusion. What's behind that, let's get this straight? What Alexander Radovic was looking for abroad officially, come on, he went to Baleare once, to Pitjuze, to the Shessel Islands, where everything could go. Is that what it's called? How, how? (Božidar Djelic, from the town: Seseljska Islands. The minister's lips are a little deformed, I don't know what, he can't say it right. Furthermore, Minister, you are familiar with each of Radovic's travel abroad, and I expect you to go out for a pay phone now and say how many of these Radovic's travels were abroad and concisely, for which occasion did he travel? Look out, Aleksandar Radovic was director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, right, did he charge taxes abroad, what was he doing there, which are his responsibilities related to travel abroad? You are the ministers directly superior to Aleksandra Radovic, you are responsible directly and criminally for everything Radovic has done contrary to the law, are you aware of that? There is no conclusion of the government, let's conclude that the government has concluded that Radovic travels abroad, you could cover yourself and collective criminal responsibility does not exist. This was without the government's conclusion, I don't know how you're gonna get covered here. Radovic also served as president of the Commission for Abuses in the Serbian government, as the commission was called, is not even an accurate name, he controls himself, and can then abuse the function by will, because no one can reveal him that there is no opposition. Now your problem is that you did not lift the opposition in Parliament in time. If you had abolished the opposition in time, you might never know about this. Furthermore, as Radovic participated in the activities of the internal control group that he personally opposed to the law and the regulation, he formed in the blame of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, Radovic hired retired military persons, headed by a former general, I will not mention the name, not important, I have that information, but he already has so many names in circulation that it is not in particular significant. Radovic is significant, and Djelic is significant. They're...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24714	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24715	I'm not gonna go for the next 10 minutes, I'm just gonna finish, so they've been doing some work, waiting for the minister to come out, and then later, I'm gonna go over the details that I have, because now I'm gonna use the full time, and then I'm not gonna be able to replicate the minister, and I can't really afford it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24716	The People's MP Nada Kolunji, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the right to replicate, a Democratic alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24717	So, having received so many votes, although the Serbs are almost gone there, confirms my thesis, the Albanians probably voted for you. And as for figures and data on how it was spent, you do not dispute the need for the state to invest in repairing what was done in Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia, but only ask to know what was spent on, if I understand you correctly. So that's what we need to know. The co-ordination body for southern Serbia and the co-ordination centre for Kosovo and Metohija were formed by the decisions of the federal and republican governments. The programme and bodies and centres have also been adopted by the Federal and Republic Government. The financial plan for both bodies has also been adopted by the federal and the Republic government as well as financial reports for the funds spent. The federal government and the Republic government adopted these reports very detailedly, and in these reports there are all items for each dinar, and if you like, I can read you some, just so you know means - the construction of the road Presevo, Orahovica, Donja Šushaja, the purchase of a water submerged pump for the needs of the water, reconstruction of the rural water pipeline, copying... [[Comment refers to the incursions of the Members of the Seselj who are not heard]] So that's all the reports, it's funded by your financials, it's got nothing to do with this, (the commentary hasn't been heard) so there's a complete up to the dinar report that both governments have adopted and probably you know well that if the final bill per item - the purchase of an ambulance, the purchase of tanks, etc., if that would seem to be a lot more than 300 pages you're looking for. Thus, such a final account cannot yet be presented. But if that's your need, I can give you all the information, or I'll give you the papers that have adopted both government and government on how the funds that have been granted by both governments for the work of the Coordination Body and the Coordination Centre have been spent, which have been tasked with repairing the accident that the previous government caused.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24718	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24719	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to remind ourselves of what was said at the end of March of last year when the topic of our debate was actually a debate on the projected budget, so the scope of public finances for nine months 2001. I remind you that we have reached this point of the agenda through a previous debate on the reform of the fiscal system, which has allowed us, among other things, to say that the planned budget for 2001 will be at the cost of 127 billion dinars, that the planned revenues of 121 billion and that we have a projected deficit. I think there was a planned deficit of 21 billion at that time, it is possible to be a million up or down at this point and there is some difference, but I would refer to those important facts like: whether we are planning a 2001 budget that will not pay off the material part of the pension; whether we are the planned budget that the state will not respond to its social obligations; whether we have planned a budget that will not meet those needs that arise as the needs of a society in transition, and here, above all, I mean the payment of severance payments. Overqualification of the workforce. When we put it all on one side of the other side, the question is, how effective were we? I am pleased to say that we have been very effective; that despite all the criticisms we have faced in this budgetary debate, we have actually received data that our society describes to be significantly different from what those who have criticised us have done. So we have a society of responsible citizens, who fully comply with their obligations. Probably because of this, and I am convinced because they are aware that the state that established those obligations is different from the one they had had the case to meet for the past 10 years; that it was the responsible state, which paid off all pensions in 2001; the state that met social obligations not only existed in 2001 but also social obligations that were as unconcerned and inherited from the previous four years; that it was a country that dealt very carefully with the problems it faced and which were inherited. Here, first of all, I think of the problems that have been criticised here through the way of financing problems in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. It is true that we have spent 498 million dinars solving the problem of three municipalities in southern Serbia, but no more officers die, soldiers of the Yugoslav Army die, civilians die. In southern Serbia, elections are held, and a year ago it was killed there. Today, attitudes and political ideas there are being defended by ballots, not by sight, as was the case only a year ago. We're always ready to pay that price, so let's let someone here figure out how many votes the citizens have made to the elections, but they don't die there anymore, and I think that's a success that can't be underestimated. Human life has no price and irresponsible are those acts where such things are devalued. As far as the controls and the results of that control are concerned, this is the first final account that says there was a breach. Look at the final bill for 1999, 12 pages. In the final handbook for 1999, there's not even a MUP, it's nowhere to be found. It's been a war year, but we'd like to see how many families of dead cops have received material compensation. When you look at our budget, or the final budget account in 2001, you'll think Japan doesn't exist. We chose between the Japanese pensioners' homes and regular pensions - regular pensions. Let the Japanese pensioners be taken care of by the Japanese state and they themselves. It's a clean bill policy. Why doesn't that suit the opposition? Or part of the opposition. Because everything they've been trying to do in the past year has been unthinked by this report. The state has rationally raised funds and spent even more rationally. The issue of donations is very detailed. There's the minister of economic relations with abroad, the finance minister, and let's talk about facts. Let's say who was the donor of those supposed 2.5 billion dinars, which are nowhere to be found today. Was that Saddam Hussein? Whether those donations were paid by workers of the Red Flag Institute, as was the case in 2000, or by some anonymous donor. We stand behind every dinar that enters this country because it's obviously in a public way and we have no reason to be afraid of it. We're having an open discussion about the facts. What was a question of deficits, i.e. inconsistencies achieved and planned revenues and the need to meet the expenditure is covered by a loan made through an agreement with the NBJ. The interest rate was defined, the decision was made, everything in accordance with the regulations, and I think it's a clean bill policy. The issue of inflation means whether we have been restructured through the printing of money or through real-time assets. Projected inflation of 40% was transferred by 10% in this projected sense. We're talking straight about it. Through what? By removing the distributive property in prices. Yesterday, some were looking forward to the EPS strike. Those who happily saw the EPS workers protest should be able to answer those workers how it is possible for Serbia's Elektroprivreda to have 30,000 workers who are a technological surplus. And how it's possible that with 60,000 workers, they can't produce what is produced by an electrical system in our environment with 10 times fewer workers. The same is true of railways, with Telecom, with Yugoslav airport, the same is true of numerous public enterprises that have been pre-named primarily through the purchase of social peace. That peace was bought, and the future was sold. The price of this today is for us to pay and we will pay it, but very seriously and responsibly through careful management of public finances. Finally, I think it's hypocritical that we talk about how governments acted, how the Coordination Centre acted, kept the accounts to individual ministers. Let's look at how the Parliament acted, see how we as MPs spent the same people's money, and the register is the same. We've had enough lectures and lessons without facts. Because of the unpreparedness of the previous congregation leadership to handle accounting services carefully, we are not in a position to analyze data for 2001. We are able to look at, say, the first quarter of the current year, so let's see how many MPs of the republican parliament and what group of MPs pulled money out of the common register and whether they were responsible or not, if they're honest about their work, and if they are congratulating them. If they're not, let's point to something like that. This is why, and I will introduce you to the proposal spent on paying the parliamentary fee in January 2002. When we talk about the costs of Neboja Covic, why don't we talk about the costs of DOS parliamentary groups, DSS, DS parties, opposition parties. Look at the facts we're coming up with. And that, for example, the same number of Democratic Party MPs participated in the total cost of the republic's parliament in January, with 11%, that the same number of DSS MPs participated with 18%, that ten MPs participated with 24%, and that 20 SRS participated with 16%. They may have worked more in January, but there's a record, so if they did more, they should get the money. In February, the SRS participated with 23 MPs and as much as the Democratic Party with 47, travel expenses, diaries, hotels, meetings of parliamentary clubs, etc. And so, every month hundreds of thousands of dinars, tens of thousands of euros, are taken out of the country's citizens' register to fund irresponsibility, libel, for barren work, pointless amendments and to be spoken of publicly. As the election results were quoted, I recognized the triumphism of those who participated in the elections. I ask you publicly, what about the voters in Peća, Prizren, Pristina, I ask you how can you speak so in the Republic Parliament, ignoring the fact that more Kosovo and Metohija citizens voted in Serbia than in Kosovo and Metohija. Stop messing with our society's misfortune, stop making it bigger, stop robbing the budget register, behave responsibly, and you'll have a responsible treatment. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Republic)
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24720	The word is held by MP Zarko Obradovic, acting as chairman of the SPS parliamentary group. You have no right to a replica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I am mentioned by the parliamentary group. She's not offended, these are facts, she spent so much money on financial records. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24721	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have responded to a replica about the presentation of the head of the DOS parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24722	You have no right to a replica. I gave you my word as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24723	Please, there's been a robbery mentioned from the register, as you don't know, please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24724	He didn't say he was your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24725	Please, as he didn't say, he mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24726	He listed all the parliamentary groups and percentages as much as who spent the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24727	You don't give me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24728	I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24729	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24730	I've explained it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24731	How, well, the man said we were robbing the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24732	He didn't say about your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24733	A man comes in and says, "You rob a register and then you have no right to a replica." Let me, I won't do much, because this is what we're going to talk about, this story that Mr. Jovanovic mentioned will come on the agenda when we have a proposal for a final budget account for 2002. And according to that folk, holding a thief, it is the easiest thing to talk about what is not a suggestion of the agenda. Today's agenda is the proposal for a final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget. Otherwise, Mr Jovanovic, if you don't know how to tell you, everything that is the subject or item of the SPS funds is something that we are looking for, because according to the Rules of Procedure or the decision of the Administrative Board, everything has to be approved by Mrs. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So everything we've got as a means, there's a paraphras of Madam President of the National Assembly. If that doesn't satisfy you, if that's the problem, go ahead and say what it's about and what it's about. Let the story go, 2002 will come. Let the way we work in the Assembly, and that's what the citizens will say, that you haven't changed your Rules of Procedure three times, that you don't move these transmissions from program to program so you don't see what they're saying. Serbian citizens know all that anyway. As far as expenses are concerned, we participate as much as we participate. We are working in the Assembly as much as we can, and the citizens of Serbia will evaluate it. All resources must go with the previous paraphras of Madam President, so if you have anything, please report to Mrs. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24734	Mr. Obradic, I'm just warning you that you had no right to reply, but that this was your first call. You've got seven minutes left. You won't determine on what basis you've got your word on. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Petrovic, and you have no right to reply. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: As boss. As chief you can, go ahead. Second application for a word, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24735	It is mentioned here from the presentation of various representatives of the DOS parliamentary group, a lot of data that talk about spending budget money. The problem is that you have that information, and you won't report it to us. And that took, as much as was spent in the congregation and in what way. It was supposed to be here, so we'd know who spent it. The SRS parliamentary group so much and so much, whether it should be a secret, or it should be a secret asset to go out for a pay phone and say when you have absolutely no arguments to kill our criticism. And one more thing. Radicals worked more. Your MPs are doing nothing, and no amendment has been prepared, as I recall. We're simply stuffing all the legal projects for hundreds of amendments. It's gotta be done. Secondly, I've made them do a lot more, because here you've fined them to the point of unconsciousness, so they can make up for it. You've introduced fines here, and then you play benefactors. You know, it's bloody money. You hate the one you gave that kidnapped money to. It won't bring happiness to anyone. Whoever got that money won't be happy with it, so know it, and that's where you're double wrong, but it doesn't matter. It's important here who's the payout officer. You pay off that money. Our MP shows up at the cashier's office and says he's gone and he's got this job and I've got this, I've got this, I've got what you know, and you're paying the money. It's not our money at all, so every one of us that comes in gets it. You pay by the appropriate criteria you yourself prescribed. Why are you even bringing this into this debate? This is about a variety of malfeasances, the counter-exploitation of budget money, for which Minister Djelic is responsible. Since the minister obviously won't suit me, I'm moving on in that criticism. General Radenko Disovic was engaged in the Republic Public Revenue Administration with a group of retired IT officers. They got state car available, mobile phones for a job that was never allowed to be carried out by a work contract. It's illegal at all, absolutely illegal. When Radovic was removed or I left, all these retired officers were removed and the work contracts were broken, because someone thought they could answer for it. How can they carry out control tasks for the government and for the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, that the minister responds here. If you didn't have time why didn't you call the competition, then hire the staff. A civil servant works under certain legal provisions and must also pass a professional exam and must be responsible for each part of his job. There's no way someone can look into those questions under the deed. You've also introduced this practice, you're the private police forming a contract of action, doing your jobs. Mr. Jovanovic, you've said nicely here how much a parliamentary group costs Serbia, but I also criticise the interior ministry for not presenting the costs of personal security of individual officials, blinded jeeps and police officers following you. Until you came to power, the state's security had only the President of the Republic and to a small extent the Prime Minister. A huge number of your officials now have personal security. On what grounds? I've never had state security. I was Deputy Prime Minister, and not to speak as head of the parliamentary group, it was unthinkable that the head of the parliamentary group had state security. It cost more of your state security than anything the Serbian Radical Party MPs have earned here in two years, and that's a fact. I'm criticizing you for not having it in the report, so let's see if it's too much spent somewhere, if it's a little spent, etc., but how your MPs can even participate in these congregation expenses when they don't write, but they never write amendments. They come here, they raise their hands when they vote, and that's all. It's easy to be an MP. Parliamentary work is a black job, from morning to night. Each law must be examined, experts, experts etc. consulted. It can't fall from the sky, hundreds of amendments when they're submitted and what you want to prove. That we abused the budget money. I haven't heard anything funnier. Furthermore, as far as this payoff is concerned by the deal on the part for these false controllers of yours who were not allowed to, that payment is also against the regulations. Since these jobs can't be done through an act contract, this state money has been illegally used and you'll have to answer for that money. Furthermore, the payments made to military employees for transactions within the Republic Public Income Administration have been committed by a criminal offence of tax evasion in contrast to the tax rate applied to the labour contract and to the one belonging to pay wages from a regular working relationship. They couldn't get an author's fee or a fee for a specific job. They were doing a job that a civil servant must work within his job, within his working relationship. It's in the jurisdiction of some state services. She can't have the state service not doing its job, and the work contract to hire someone else to do it instead. It's a double cost to the state. There's a leak between 700 grand and a million dinars. This is where benefits have been obtained, property benefit unlawfully obtained for those who are not qualified to do the job, nor are such jobs provided for by the Control Act and by the relevant Regulation. It's all totally against the law. As far as these reports of yours are concerned, you have not listed here exactly what the money was spent on. Let's do this for wages, I guess we know what it was spent on, but everything else had to go through certain specifications, and now that you have no answer, you say it was before, but as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we've always criticised it. You will find these types of criticisms in the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, which I chaired. I'm going to publish those records as a book. I will announce everything, to be transparent, as Minister Djelic would say. He can buy books for the ministry and learn from those books, that they don't have to hire pensioners, retired officers to do the most prominent government work. Mr. Minister, you've done some wonders here. The next year, this country will be in a situation, you spent money, charged against your extraprofit law, and on the one hand, that law is against the constitution and will have to fall under the Constitutional Court, but you have violated the law at certain charges. Now the Supreme Court will have one verdict at a time and that money will have to return. It is not worth it when Zoran Djindjic says we will not execute the Supreme Court's decision. Some government will have to execute, because the Supreme Court's decision is undeniable, especially in cases where it's obviously based on the law. There is no proper argument to appeal to that verdict. Then what are you going to do? You, Dinkic and Radovic want to escape, and then someone else here to get chestnuts out of the fire. What you came up with about it, that's what I'm interested in. You say as Minister or Prime Minister he won't respect the Supreme Court's decision. I can criticise the Supreme Court as an opposition. The executive authority must not criticise the court, absolutely not. That's absolutely unacceptable. Furthermore, why didn't you file this final bill report for 2001 at all? What did you want to show for it? There's nothing from the report that can be seen, so then different people here have to file some other papers. There's no point in voting for this at all. There's no such thing as donations. It's only registered that some have arrived. You think if these donations came to the state that you're quite free to have them. You received some donations in technical means, in goods, and then it was sold. Could it have been sold? Could any humanitarian aid have been sold? He's got data that's been sold. This final account has no purpose for the National Assembly to adopt. This final account must be returned to the government and the finance minister for the next time to deliver the final account to us on 300 pages, in which all items will be processed at least to the level to which they were processed in the final account for 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24736	The People's MP Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24737	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, is interesting to begin with, how some MPs consider their fellow Members to be officials. We just heard here that the Assembly is a cost center and how much who spends. In one situation, the gentleman represents a parliamentary group, a wider DOS Reform parliamentary group, and at another point only the MPs of his party. Whether they are all officials or only MPs of his party officials, it remains to be estimated. I can say that the Democratic Party of Serbia and its MPs do not regard themselves as officials in the Assembly and in this current law, which we are discussing today, it is best seen. So for starters, I'm going to remind you of the history of this law, how he went to the congregation. Last week we received the original bill and the final budget report for 2001. The Democratic Party of Serbia sought a certain addition in its proposal to remove the item from the agenda and one addition came last Tuesday. In the original text of the budget, what's good, and I'll say it first of all, it's a new methodology that's been applied and the part of the report is a good part of the salary, so the part where the salaries are explained. Salaries are the largest item of the budget, about 25.6% of the budget, and that's what was good, so before last Tuesday, that's when we got that first budget bill. It's certainly better than it was before, but it's not enough. We saw it, and that's why we asked for certain supplements. In the first additions since last Tuesday, something has been done on the parting of Serbia's budget. There's a little explanation, too. Tonas didn't settle. We're getting a second addition today. You just got those reports a little while ago, and I had a chance to watch it half an hour earlier. There are some new elements in it, facts. These are donations made yesterday by Minister Pitic. There's one piece on the Agrarian budget. Other things were mostly the same as in the previous supplement. This shows that the 2001 final budget account report is constantly getting new elements, so in time, perhaps in a few weeks, it's getting closer to what it's supposed to be. What should be said will be the DSS MPs, especially in the section we consider insufficient in the 2001 Budget Report. I repeat again, the wages are well done. The second paragraph, after the salary, is subsidies for the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. We won't talk about it, because it's our necessity to fiscally finance pensions. The third thing we're going to talk about, what we're going to pay attention to, these are economic subsidies, which concern the Agrarian budget, which concerns traffic. What we think is a lack in this text of the law, these are the government's special programmes in both this text of the law and the 2003 Budget Act. We believe that insufficient information has been given. What I'm going to talk about and I'm going to give one solution to how we see that the final bill needs to look, these are economic subsidies, in a narrow sense. So, what the government subsidized, first of all, our industry. Subsidies are generally 17.53% of the budget and those, as part of which affects some development, some of our future, are not just about wages, they are very important. This part of subsidies in a narrow economy is about 2.83% of the budget. It was planned at the level of four billion dinars and made at the level of three billion 606 dinars. So somewhere around 90.17%, which is 31.4% of the total subsidies the government has allocated to the economy. In the report, unlike the pay that I again commend, which is given on six pages, there's only half of us in the report. What do we have on the data? We have the flag data of a billion 133 million RTB Bor for gross wages, metal complexes, SARTID, which makes up a billion 866 million dinars together, which makes up 50% of that budget item - economic subsidies. How's that supposed to look on us? So, there should be, firstly, a legal basis, to give one short legal basis - the allocation of these funds, that the government gives unique criteria by which these funds are allocated and, ultimately, the criteria of distribution. This is best shown to the table where the first hundred expenditures in users should be allocated and for the item planned and for the item achieved. That table should have the following elements. So, next to the user's name, how much money was given to that particular user. We in this review only have for four or five users that given it. That's certainly not enough, because matter is very important. The second part is how much of these funds were allocated to the salaries. So how many of the subsidies went to the pay fund of those users, for which number of workers. Similarly, how much was given for severances and how many workers were thus subsidized, how much were the basic means of maintenance and replacement of equipment, how much of it was the investment in crafts, how much was it for the payment of the credit. What are the descriptions, what the Government needs to give descriptively, which is the desired and achieved effect of these subsidies. This table should be given at other levels of aggregated, meaning, for branches, for the rest of the users who are not given in those first table or by type of subsidy. Finally, we need to get one conclusion on the effects of these subsidies. What is also important, in addition to subsidies, which I will talk about, are investments made at a level of 20m euros. 20m euros were allocated, and were planned at a level of a billion and a half dinars, i.e. a billion and 200m. What's it got to give? So it's like a subsidy. The criteria should be given as to how these investments are set out. It is important whether these are inherited investments or just new starting facilities, whether investments are one year or more, whether they will continue in the coming periods, distribution criteria, by branches, geographical representation of these investments and other important economic and political criteria for investment. What's important is to say how much of the investment was made with special programmes. Also, it's possible to give certain tables there. I think the tables are a great thing to do in a quick way to look at what's done and these tables need to be, through one dynamic year by year, then it's easier to compare it all with them, much like they were given for wages, on those six sides of the pay justification. My other colleagues will talk about the rest of the subsidies. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24738	The word has been issued by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24739	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I expected this debate to be much more concrete, that the objections that were so bombically announced and that the beginning of Parliament was hampered in the first place would be justified and justified. But it's not gonna happen. Yesterday we heard criticism about the Agrarian budget, in an announcement -- what about the Agrarian budget, they're not clear facts where that money was spent. Donations were mentioned, the Republic Health Insurance Fund was mentioned, alleged irregularities in the Ministry of Finance's business. It's not gonna happen. Please refer to the facts and help with the facts to form a complete final account for 2001, unless this one is complete. Once we've withdrawn the final bill for 2000, I'm sure the finance minister will accept the request to withdraw this final bill, too, if it's not good at something. But point to facts, say on what. Every four months, the interior ministry reports to the Committee on Defence and Security, a detailed report, just as the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad can go before this parliament and say that the competent committees adopted their report on the work, by rule, unanimously, without any objections, without any doubt. Those who then supported the report on the work of the competent ministry who are criticising today should say - we as MPs, working on the Committee, supported the Report, thus taking away the opportunities that the Rules of Procedure assume the assembly debate, unless some work is supported and accepted, however, today we noticed that we were then wrong on the basis of these, these and these facts. Instead, MPs wonder why we're talking about Parliament's expenses. I guess we have a duty to go away from ourselves, and then, talking about ourselves, we give it the right to talk about others. I'm talking about the DOS parliamentary group, I'm talking about the party I belong to, and I'm giving you a chance to go out with the facts. That's how the gentleman, one of the previous speakers, who mentioned personal security. Excuse me, the law defines the circumstances under which a person can receive personal security. The elemental rule is they're M.O.P. workers. Since I'm specifically mentioned, it's true that I have personal security. I'm surprised, the books mention their salaries in the books of certain parties, even here in congregation debates, tens of thousands of marks. Now suddenly there's a problem about it, allegedly, that they don't know. Those among us most informed do not know where Japan is in the final budget of 2001, where books have stopped printing and reading in Serbia and now they do not know what is wrong with our security. We keep them from themselves, we are responsible for them and their actions, and at the same time we must answer for ourselves, to protect ourselves. Ask that question on the Defence and Security Committee, you will get very good answers. I'm ready for something like that. As far as the Assembly is concerned, it's a moral question, not a financial one. The moral question is, can 37 MPs of one opposition party spend more money than 102 MPs of the DOS Group? Every month. That's a moral question. If you are morally devalued in this regard, you lose your right to seek answers on any other matter because you are an immoral person. As for the concerns of the predecessors, who also mentioned the Democratic Party and the DOS, but not only him, but others, who would like to discuss the final account, but that does not mean that someone should issue an account for them because they were working. Now, that may be somewhere else, but in the Republic Parliament, while we're MPs who think differently, it won't be. So, you answer whether it's moral for the trip from Hilandar Street to the Assembly to cost 80,000 dinars a month? It is true that the MP has the right to claim compensation for spent fuel, but the question is very serious - is that fee costing 80,000 dinars when you go from Hilandar Street to the Serbian Parliament? Since I don't think it takes so much to humiliate ourselves, we know the names, and don't let the debate go any further in that direction. Come out as party representatives, who criticise the final bill and say - we are not satisfied, Bozidar Djelic, where did the funds go from donations? But then I invite you to turn the final bill around and you'll see that the donation funds went into the EPS remont. Now the EPS produces more energy than it has done over the past, at less cost, the capacity has been restored, and it is common good. So the funds went to the EPS. The funds went into social donations, the funds went into economic restructuring. Who is -- well, the one that's been restructured, the Red Flag, the Sartid, they went to the labour market, they went to university. Look at the salary growth. Primary and secondary education, nominal growth 56%, real 9%, higher university education, nominal growth 50%, real 5%. In the judiciary, growth is 51%, real 5%, nominal and real, and the judges have the salary we said they would have. Is it enough, I don't think it is, it has to be bigger, but the 500-euro salary in 2002 is a big success. This is due to our financial business, which is based among other things and on sound foundations, established by the 2001 budget. The MIP - this question was asked, a 9% profit drop, but the basis for the projected earnings was higher, as the MIP was particularly treated in the 1999 and 2000 budgets. The state was under other circumstances, an estimate that more must be invested in the MUP than in education. But fortunately, since it's no longer being killed or fought, we can look to the future in a different way today. State authorities - real increase by 6%. So in each of these segments, you'll see that the 2001 budget allows for an average real increase, greater than the standards that are common for transition countries. If you read the last number of Economist, you'll see the effects of that kind of policy. A few days ago, he went bankrupt United Airlines, the second largest airline in the world. The Yugoslav airport is working successfully, service its debts and exists on the airline market. Six months ago, the Swiss Air failed in one day. JAT worked successfully back then. Look what's going on with the power industry -- those who are looking forward to a strike in the EPS, are disappointed today. We made a deal with the workers, respecting the basic principles of market business. Every hour must have its value, let him who works get paid, let that wages be earned, and let him who does not work share the fate of the unemployed. These are the principles that are also contained in the 2001 budget, which enables us to behave in this way. France's electricity went bankrupt. Serbian is not, despite many efforts. And so, from item to item, you'll see that this final account is very precise, detailed. In those situations where you think you are not, looking for answers, there are ministers who have to give them to you, but take care of the congregation committees, who received the answers periodically, that's what was discussed, I know very well that you are. For example, the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs unanimously adopted Minister Pitic's report, and then last week "a knife in our backs" following an agreement on the agenda, following the expected normal work in parliament, due to alleged misunderstandings over donations. It's irresponsible behavior, and I don't think there's any bad intentions in what I suggested, to start with us, to see where who's who, how responsible, do we have that moral purity that we need, to get others to point fingers? Those who have, let them do something like that, those who do not, let them know that everything is carefully recorded and that we insist on it. The final bill for the 2001 budget is the final bill for everyone, including us. Those who don't think they're clerks, they have every right to something like that, but they need to know they have to match those who pay them. This is an account for that responsibility, or irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24740	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24741	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of words about moral purity, but you know what, everybody talks about what he misses, so I wouldn't comment on it. I'm starting with whoever wants to do morals, go to church, and simply, if we start from that maximum of a local politician, we can't get far. The DSS, since it has good communication with Minister Djelic, has repeatedly insisted on its pre-debate request, last week, on the budget and on the final account, to establish contact with the ministry. We had good communication with the ministry, and Minister Djelic talked, tried to make explanations at some points and we just, not wanting to surprise him, last week suggested that the point be removed from the agenda, so that we would give him a chance to supplement his final account. Mr Djelic has done it in two mahas, so the most perfect and best final account since 1945 has been completed twice, by saying that the final account for 2000 is much better done than this one for 2001 and that we consider this account to be further supplemented. These supplements we have now are not good and are not enough. They are quite segmentary, partially processed and not enough frame to be able to adequately discuss this budget. Someone's been looking for arguments, they're going to get those arguments - what's wrong with this. The essence of the debate on the final account in all normal democratic states is that the debate lasts longer than the budget debate. With the budget debate, you give certain confidence to the government, to implement its policy, and in the final account, you put everything that this government has done, and in France, Great Britain, the United States, the entire committees exist for the final account, for the public accounts, which deal only with this paragraph. The DSS will move this assembly to create a special board of public accounts, which would deal only with public finances, and that is something that is necessary, if we want to get into order of organised societies, states with a regulated fiscal system and public finances control. Budgetary inspection - if we are talking about the extent of the budget inspection, this budget inspection has the capacity to determine whether something has been spent in accordance with the law and whether there is a contract for this, so that the budgetary inspection is likely, or someone else, that on the 42nd side of the report we can see that the government's decision of February 2002 set the amounts to cover several payments made to the assets of the current budget reserve, compared to the existence of the government's resolution. They covered in February of the month what they spent during the year. I don't see who's responsible for this budget inspection. If we talked about liability for the unconscious and irresponsible spending of funds, for the legal spending, covered by decisions, then why is certain consumption covered only in February 2002, and these expenditures were made in 2001? Why isn't it written here who has it and in what way, and how much is it, and for whose purpose? That's, say, one lack of report. Mr. Djelic will probably give an answer if he can. With Minister Djelic in the conversation we had with him, he repeatedly made remarks that he could not give an answer for certain ministries, that he was not provided with answers, and we will mention what the ministries were and you will see that hundreds and hundreds of millions of marks or euros were spent, and that we are in the budget, that in the final account we have only one sentence where it is said to have been spent. The essence of the final accounts is that they show whether the money has been spent in accordance with the law, whether it has been spent rationally, whether it has been spent in whole and whether it has been spent effectively and whether some results have been achieved with the spending of these funds. There's little to see from this final account, and there's little to be seen from the supplement we got here. A revision that is a lot of talk and a lot of stories are distributed, aims not to reveal the integrity, rationality and efficiency, but only the legality. We here, in addition to being legal as a body who votes for the budget and who chooses the government, have to deal with these other items. In order to deal with rationality, integrity and efficiency of control, or budget spending, we need to have a full report, which is how every dinar is spent. Take a split of the 6th supplement of the report, where it's said, 589 million dinars were spent to pay off the loan. You can't see which loans, who's in charge, whether they're old loans, new loans, whom and how we're in debt, whether they're commercial banks, foreign banks, World Bank or anyone else. I think it's very important if you spend 600 million dinars to know what you're spending it on. The Republic of Serbia Development Fund, 497, is worth 500 million dinars. You can't tell who and how this money went to the Development Fund. There are various objections to funding from the Development Fund on the party and other lines, and we want to see who and how that money went. The Transition Fund, spent 732 million dinars, has not one word of where that money went. These are all answers, that is, all the questions we have asked for answers, unfortunately, we have not received them. I'm sorry that those who asked for specific questions aren't here to hear them now, so they might later add answers. There have been a lot of objections to the report on the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the most recently reported that the agricultural budget was spent. Take, say, animal health, from the planned 800 million, 281 million, almost 282 million, or 35.2%. The great interest of our country is that, in this particular area, animal health, not 800 are invested, but much more money. One of the reasons why we don't export meat is because we don't have enough health care. This is the great interest of our country, to invest here. 35.2% of resources have been spent, turn the next side where animal health is being explained, this is complemented, and where it is said - the adopted programme of animal health implementation and the annual order relating to the diagnosis of animal health, the damage to the throat has been realised by 35.2%. So they just copy what's in it, they don't write how, or why, why it's less realized, who decided to make it less real, why it's so decided and whose responsibility it is. So, it's not all here, and we're talking about rationality, Celebrities and efficiency. Is it true that the agrarian budget is achieved in less than planned, in a situation where we want it, that agriculture is exactly the driving force, the right way for this agriculture to develop, and whether it is an effective government that does not invest in agriculture and that reduces the agricultural budget? You'll see in the rebalancing for 2002, that you're just taking money from agriculture and transferring it to others. Is that how you work in one country, if you want to start farming? Of course, it's not about responsibility, and that's what we're talking about. Let's move on, I have to use the supplemental report like this, because we didn't get it until this morning at around 10 o'clock, the Department of Economy and Privatisation, the special purpose funds were made at 41.90 million dinars, and that's all. What are the special purposes and how they have been done, there is not a word about it. The Ministry of Mining and Energy, economic subsidy expenditures were made at 3 billion 600 million, or more than that, where 3 billion 600 million dinars were spent. The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, which is where we especially need to stay, there were stories here, we heard in Snissear... It's about all the other companies in the world that are going down, and our traffic is booming. It was spent, this is how the sentence goes, the means for traffic programmes were made in the amount of 9 billion 689 million. The amount rose by about a billion dinars compared to the budget. If we remember all the stories, the paved roads, the highways, all the affairs that were connected with paved roads across Serbia, we are in a situation that 9 billion and 600, almost 10 billion... (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: what affair? I would ask you to allow me to move on. We come to the situation that 10 billion dinars were spent from the Ministry of Transport, not to be seen, whether it went for road traffic, air, water or rail, not to see how many roads were done, whether it was local, regional, highways or other roads, that it was not seen what companies were doing, what kind of tenders were, what prices it was made at. It's 10 billion dinars, and here we're talking about almost 400 million marks or 200 million euros, and here someone is talking or staining our eyes with some reports. We want a report where 400 million marks were spent, and there's not a word about it here. The Ministry of Urbanism and Construction spent 3 billion 046 million on reconstruction programmes, not a word, just for reconstruction programmes. What are the programs? We're talking about 3 billion dinars, 100 million marks, and that's not small money for the situation where our country is. If we're still on the list, this is complete for donations, and unfortunately I haven't been able to look at it, because it came to me this morning, but we're moving on, there's a lot more to be answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24742	It's ten minutes, do you use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24743	I'm done. I'll use it in ten minutes. So these are the main questions that we have asked in writing by Minister Djelic. Some of us got answers, some of us didn't, some of us tried to answer, and they, like this for the Department of Traffic, just said, I can't get that report. Who can receive the report and whom these reports are submitted to, if not to this Assembly to which a report is to be submitted that 400 million marks have been spent, which are roads and how paved and which companies have done so. These are questions that this Assembly must receive answers if the minister and the government expect us to vote for the final bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24744	The word has the People's MP Stevan G. Guduric, and after that, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24745	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've waited for my turn, listening to these interdisciplinary bickerings. Now I don't know if these DOS guys are going to be offended for having me belong to the DSS, or if those in the DSS are going to be offended for putting them in DOS, but as I understand it, they all came together, peopleally speaking -- from the same bed they came to this assembly. Speaking, from better than you, that's for sure, talking about the technological surplus, someone just forgot to take one fact that, while the Beician cement factory had two thousand workers, the price of cement on the market was lower than now that there are thousands of workers, so I don't know how the one who talked about the technology surplus, how he wants to explain, that because there's a technological surplus, so he has to fly from work to get better. From what I understand, when cement is cheaper on the market, it should be better for citizens. I see that one of the next points, the changes and the addition of the 2002 budget, I was politely in the Assembly, I don't know that we've been discussing the amendments and the amendments to the 2001 budget, and as far as I understand it, it shouldn't possibly spend more than what it's planned on, less. It would be interesting then, I won't explain as some predecessors, let's just look at the numbers. Probably no one needs education when spent less than planned, it probably doesn't take as much as planned for social protection, because it's less spent. Who's up to health and culture? And it's less spent than planned. Who's up to agriculture and agrarian budget, and it's less spent. However, who cares about environmental protection, and it is less spent, if it is not washed by the ministry's rule after that, what has been kicked out in the beginning. Who cares about killing himself by explaining how the parliamentary groups stole this Serbia, when I see it here -- 180 planned and 175 spent. Well, then how did it -- the parliamentary groups destroyed this assembly and this people when it wasn't spent even how much it was planned. How come the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications spends more decently than planned, and this assembly is not even informed about decision-making and not to talk about it. How is it that there are no friends who usually sit at the gallery at the invitation of the President of the Assembly, who were the Resistance and who were young, so that they notice that in student loans, for talented, for scholarships, the mae is spent on planned, in the field of youth care, the mae is spent on planned, and how to spend less than planned on anti-urban protection. Maybe it hasn't been falling ice in the last few years, so it doesn't need any more. How is it that in one position there is suddenly double the amount of money planned and we did not talk about it in this congregation? Who in this country cares more about refugees, since it's much less spent than planned. So someone should explain it. How is it that the brightness of the position has been severed, and this congregation has not discussed it. Let your DOS bickerings end outside this assembly hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24746	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24747	This report would be much more complete if, as would the 2000 report on the final account, it had been elaborated on all these items, i.e. divisions and especially in terms of the expenditure side in detail. Secondly, there is one document missing from this report. Or, at least the booth you were supposed to have contributed for the last quarter of 2000, gentlemen. Not because the report is being completed but because the nature of the DOS government is visible from the last quarter of 2000, you see your good intentions, as you claim from this pay phone, that you are domestically deploying funds. In the last quarter of 2000 alone, you've spent more than the government in the last nine months. Where did you put it? Nowhere. You go out for this pay phone in the form of a minister and with almost hysterical arguments you add to the previous government, but you don't explain through that same character and form where you spent the funds, in which way you submitted the report. No, you're making a report on 50 pages and you think the public in Serbia will swallow it. What is evident is that you only admit that the deficit in the 2001 budget is, and imagine gentlemen, which coincidence, you did not pay attention to, that deficit of two billion dinars corresponds to the deficit shown at the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. And if nothing else, then there are justifiable doubts about all these affairs that have shaken Serbia, about the staged tenders, about the construction of roads, and they are justified and they are looking for their justification in this report for 2001. Exactly how much you were forced to allocate additional funds to satisfy your appetites, as you like to call them, new investors, and people have long recognized them by other characteristics. Gentlemen, since you claim that the opposition, and in this case Serbian radicals serve demagogue when they explain your report, let's not ask you very much in detail - why the salaries in the Ministry of Energy and Mining have been increased, because you can interpret that we are abused by the current situation and by the position of miners and workers in the electricity sector. But explain, gentlemen, why the two million-dollar increase in the office's costs in the Serbian government, headed by Beba Popovic until yesterday, according to the interest of the waiter. Well, at least give me some argument. Is that in line with his profession, he pulled a pen and spent two million more. Where you have an explanation for why these funds were spent, for what, if they weren't for what you denied, for listening devices, spent those two million, or for part of the purchase of those listening devices. On what the minister from this booth claimed on two occasions, I will look back in the second part -- you yourself have admitted your incompetence, I speak for those who are in the government, for their representatives, you yourself have acknowledged your machinations and machinations. Your budget inspection has established that you have purposelessly spent humanitarian aid, donations, everything that has come from abroad. Yesterday, we heard a cry from this pay phone about how the previous government was not purposelessly spending funds. What did you gentlemen do? You're accusing the previous government of the assets being deposited in commercial banks. Well, you, in the report we received five minutes ago, admit to using the same method, but for the resalic of the previous government, you did not show under which conditions these meetings were deposited. Your budget inspection found and wrote reports about it -- nor did the resolutional crowds submit a programme based on which they received funds, and the interest to file a report on what they were spending these funds on, but through a passing account called - the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, took as much as they needed, gave to whom they thought, and there is no report. Why didn't you, gentlemen, supplement the names of those responsible for this report, and you found through your inspection that they were taking funds without a spending plan, and no final report on where they spent the funds. Your story ends with that people's "the ones about honesty and the DOS about morality".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24748	Before I give my word to MP Joca Arsic, I would like to inform you that the extension of the 51st session of the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia will be at 14.00 hours in the hall one on the ground floor. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24749	Before I begin my discussion, I'll be longer than three minutes, thank you, Mr. Zeljo, I don't think there's much to talk about because the minister doesn't have, there's no Minister of Economic Relations, and there's not enough MPs in the O.R. I don't know if it makes sense to only tell the cameras that carry this to the people who, hopefully, listen to it. I am here after discussing some MPs in the dilemma whether we should go to Europe because we have heard the experiences of France, Switzerland and others. It is not clear to me whether we need to put on the rise, our electricity, our air carriers by entering Europe, and you see this as a sending remark. I would like to say that here the minister has declared that the draft final accounts, or the final budget bill for 2001, has been submitted in principle and transparently. I don't think that finding is right for him, because now we are in the process of discussing this law, or the proposal, we have also received an additional report. In which way and how we will conduct a quality debate, if the reports are submitted to us additionally during the duration of the debate itself on the agenda. What I'm saying is, again about non-discipline, which is that it was not a legal obligation to hire an inspection of the final budget account, that it was just about the control of the budget inspection and that in 2001 it was engaged, and if it wasn't legal, then it didn't have to be hired for 2000 and that this report was given. It is needed and it is necessary to hear exactly what it is and what it is and how the funds are spent. The minister also said an external auditor will be hired this time, so it is up to the government to make a proposal, and the Assembly to declare the appointment of an external auditor. If that's what the government brings, and if we say so, then I don't believe in some complete impartiality and that external auditor, although it's been heard here and who's everything and how is hired to review the budget behind 2000 and 2001. Also, these reports said they would issue a control report for 2001. In reports that we have both the supplemental report and the first one that we received, it speaks of the control that was carried out in 2001. If it was carried out in 2001, it cannot apply to the final budget account for the whole of 2001, it was not possible to carry out that control in this way. The final budget account also showed that certain irregularities were identified, and I think in particular that there were irregularities concerning the budget reserve, which was increased by 2 billion, and it was planned to be 7 billion, and it was later announced by the government's decision that it was sanctioned in 2002, or a decision was taken on that, and not to say what needs, where and what. I also think, when it comes to the budget reserve, it was necessary to say exactly what purposes and what the budget reserve was spent on, so that the report was as said, transparent. It's also mentioned here about a portion of the funds sent to this coordinating body. There are 498 million people talking about, and it's not said that 150 million people have been allocated from the budget reserve for the purpose of the centre, and I don't see that anger, and I don't see why anyone gets angry, if they're asked to file a full report on everything, and that what and for what purposes these funds have been spent on. It has nothing to do with any ideological settings. It simply needs to be given a report as requested and done in the 2000 budget, to be done for both the budget and 2001, and then he wouldn't be this short and this small. What my observation is about the implementation of the 2001 budget, and something has already been said about it, I think three very important segments have been denied, and that is that the budget has not been sufficiently implemented in terms of scholarships for higher education and also scholarships, or loans for secondary schools. There it was denied, that young children over half of the total planned funds. I don't think that's correct and that someone could have tried to increase that student standard that way. Otherwise, even through major interventions, more grips are also from the pockets of parents and high school students. You know that several times the cost of accommodation in student homes and dormitories has been increased compared to the previous period, which in any case burdens such small budgets. That would be some basic remarks. It was also said here that a loan had been made for the wheat buy-in Directorate. Normally, the wheat and should be redeemed, bought every year, only here is the question of the Minister of Agriculture, whether all the market surpluses of wheat are bought, whether it is bought from peasants what is a market surplus, what this country needs and what guarantees stability. We heard it was written off with wheat bakers for a billionth of a dinar. It is certain that these reserves are emptied in such a way, should be adequately filled in and provided for one full stability to this budget. It was said here about animal protection. I think it's a terrible bit of animal protection. What wasn't done was probably referring to that part of the birds that instead of flying south, it looks like they're flying west into Italy now. This reduced fund is minimal in terms of what should be paid attention, as the stock fund is exposed to many diseases. I can tell you that in veterinary cells, you charge a trichinosis check with 150 dinars per person who comes. I think that this obligation should be made by the state, because I have much more interest in doing and doing something like that, precisely in order to protect the population from the possible effects on the meat polluted by Trichinium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24750	The word has a folk MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by MP Dragan S. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, gentlemen of the Ministers, the final account should allow for a realistic, accurate and clear view and monitoring of the financial flows of the state, and thus point to trends in the tax and budget system. All data presented in the final account shall be used as the most solid basis for budgeting for some future budgetary cycles. What is first seen is the fact that this final account was delivered to this parliament at the same time as the 2003 draft budget, and thus the government has shown that it refers to the 2001 final budget account as a second-rate act. The second fact is that this final budget account is not done with the necessary seriousness, because small businesses are more serious about the cost side than it is about what's shown here. Because of this approach, the DSS asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to improve the quality of the final account content, the information needed under the Law on Public Revenue and Expenditure and the Law on the Budgetary System, and primarily insisting on a report on their own revenues made by public services and budget beneficiaries. Next, a report on the appropriations, i.e. loans from the budget and the balance of the loans, then a report on the funds allocated to the fixed budget reserve and their use, etc. The finance and economy ministry on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia has completed the report twice on the final budget account. But there's one thing that's happening right now, and it's coming into our eyes, and we know that we're coming from local self-government. If you see a budget of 100 dinars, and 120 dinars are spent, without any law and notifying parliament, then that's what gets into the eyes first. In this draft bill on the final budget bill for 2001 and in this first part of the report, which you delivered to us in the second part of the report, it is precisely that item that bothers us and stings our eyes, which is this division of 11 and analytical conto 911-190 positions 63, which is called traffic programmes, where more than seven billion dinars are foreseen, and spent 9.7 billion dinars without any rebalancing, meaning we had no rebalance in 2001 and no introduction of the Serbian parliament. Who sees the budget sees it right away. Both times you've given that position, which we've pointed to, only in one sentence. I have to say that I thank the Ministry of Finance for trying to justify in two moments these shortcomings and associates working at the Ministry of Foundation, who have been doing this day and night, but whether it is not having information from the Ministry of Finance itself, whether it is not the unpreparedness of the true resolution ministry, we need to see what it is and we need to have some information. The roads are harvested in a catastrophic state and it is true that road infrastructure must be one of the country's top priorities, but it is irresponsible for the government to carry out parliament only in one sentence "the means for traffic programmes have been carried out in the amount of 9.689.050,000 dinars". Under which programmes so many funds were allocated and could be allocated an additional 2,673,000 dinars without meeting this parliament, i.e. the rebalance of the 2001 budget in the division. The government is asking us to vote rebalancing for much smaller items in 2002. We got a rebalance proposal from the government the other day, absolutely correct, for much smaller items, scattered into tiny worms and that's good, but for one such sum, which is not justified, which is not presented to these people must be an explanation. I am responsibly saying that until this concept is explained, the Democratic Party of Serbia will not vote for the final bill for 2001, and I would recommend that you answer our questions as to who brought the plan and the road infrastructure investment programme and by what criteria, on which legal basis such large amount of money is granted. We have not seen and we do not know as Parliament that a long-term, medium-term or annual plan is adopted, i.e. a programme of work, maintenance, protection, construction of road infrastructure, and I am particularly interested in this as MEPs from both the municipality and the president and the municipality, in which there are about 200km of long highways and regional roads, in which 2001 has not been buried a fool. We simply don't know how and by what program we in our municipality will get the resources to make these regional and highway routes work. For what reason? We know it's a government duty, but small municipalities have this problem, that regional roads go through city centers and that they're actually regional roads and traffic. We can't do that from our resources, because we don't have the Republic's permission to do that, so I'd like you to answer my question. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24752	The word has the People's MP Dragan S. Tomic, followed by MP Aleksandar Vukic. National MP Dragan S. Tomic is not here. Otherwise, your parliamentary group has one minute. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vucic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we listened not yesterday, but two years of attacks on all those who think differently, without particular explanations, with little or no evidence, and today, or last night, we were presented with the final bill for 2001 as a god-given paper, as something we never dreamed we would get so well done and all praises deserved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the final account itself, that is, in the analysis of the work of the budgetary inspection, you can establish a number of irregularities, which I will talk about later, but regardless of which I have to point out some things that should be a fact, which are all just facts and arguments. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia said it had a projection of a social product with a real growth of 5% in the implementation of economic policy for 2001. I have to remind you, and then later it states that nominal growth was 81.5%, etc., that it was growth compared to 2000, the first postwar year, but it was three months of DOS rule, or so on. Transitional governments, but then DOS and its crisis headquarters ruled, when they took everything they came in, raided where they arrived, and when production was lowered, it's understood in our country, for a huge percentage. In comparison, the DOS has failed to provide a larger social product than the one that states here. I have to notice one thing, that the Dosmanli regime, where it speaks about the content of the law, says "in the structure of the total expenditures of the economic subsidy, they participate at 17.53% and these programmes were implemented in total amounting to 38.10% more than the plan". There's a question of who approved it, where the billions went. Not tens of thousands of dinars, as some have said, billions. Yesterday we found out about a billion 544 million since G-17. Whether it was G-17 or Gej-17 plus, I don't already know, a billion and 544 million. Today we have a hole of 400 million marks, of 11-12 billion, and we don't know where it is. I'll tell you where he is. He's at Chummet's Diffens, so we can make that clear to you. They were doing those roads, they were getting that money, and now they're wondering how it's not here in the report, as the report says, a 50% smuggling, a cigarette has been reduced, a 15-20-percent smuggling. If you know where the smuggling is, why doesn't that smuggling stop? How is it possible that no one stops that flow and has records that 15 to 20% of cigarettes have been smuggled? Do you know who's smuggling? Stanko Subotic-Cane, Serbia's largest bandit, frog is another nickname for him and I guess he's proud of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24754	I warn you, MP, of the obligations of the Rules of Procedure on how to conduct yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24755	Is there somewhere in the Rules of Procedure that I can't mention Canet the Frog?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24756	No, but there is a duty in the Rules of Procedure to present the true facts behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24757	I present the true facts and therefore there is a book "King of the tobacco mafia Cana Žabac" written by Dr Vojislav Seselj, and you go out and defend Canet Subotic. You, Mrs. Comic, come out and tell me if it's Mr. Cane and Mr. Chume, they've ever done something good for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24758	People's MP, my duty is to apply and respect the Rules of Procedure and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24759	I'm just asking you not to count my time for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24760	Of course, there has never been a lack of exercise of your rights and obligations. I really beg your language with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24761	He won't be angry with Mr. Chuma and Cana, he'll just have some new lawsuits filed, but it doesn't matter. As for donations, which have been said to have been made transparently, I ask these few questions. We in this first report, without this subsequent report, and later on I will say something about the subsequent report, we have received information as from 3,366,000,000 and six or seven items on which it was spent and how it was available. What did the 547 million that the Ministry of Economic Relations received from abroad spend on? Let's not talk about lying to us or television if it's just this many donations ornas lying to the final account. You couldn't open your eyes from the great donations we've received every day, they were all amounts, which are millions, which are billions. Now we see that it's not exactly God knows what. What there is in the additional explanation is what was given for social assistance, pensions for agricultural producers, etc., but let's see what was spent, let's say, in the field of education and sports, above all education? You think now our children can learn something easier, learn some better program, learn something better to master. No, that's where the money is spent on Natasha Kandić, Sonja Biserko, open society funds, for their reform seminars, etc. You know, Serbian citizens, that's what money's going to go to, at their round tables on reforms, and then they mispay the funds and double the funds. Well, the American Embassy, a citizen training project, etc. It's nice to know people didn't get that money so the people would have to eat or fix the bridges they destroyed. What's not here - a fixed bridge in Novi Sad, which was shot down three and a half years ago. There's no new bridge, there's no red tape, there's nothing. Some here talked about the costs of the Interim Government of Kosovo and Metohija, once upon a time. For 40 years, we could finance a temporary government, how much is missing from this for the Department of Traffic. Isn't that right, Mr. Angelkovic? (Zoran Angelkovic: 400 years old. 400 years, just for what Chume took. Only Mr. Chume won, so much we could do. As for some who spoke for whom he voted, we as Serbian radicals, as someone who is for national tolerance, do not measure and watch who is of which nationality and for whom he votes. In Leposavic and Zvecan, almost no Albanians, all Serbs voted for Mr Seselj. As for the vice-president of the government of Nebojka Covic, he told Ridvan Qazimija. For those of you who don't know who it is, it's about what happened. "Command Lashi." Nebojsa Covic said in 2001: "All those who look forward to the deaths of Ridvan Qazimi are malicious, because Ridvan Qazimi -- commander of the Leshi, the Shipar commander, has contributed greatly to establishing peace in southern Serbia. "So much, ladies and gentlemen, about who protects Serbian national interests, who doesn't. Serbian radicals were the only one on the Serbian political scene against Plan Ahtisaari - Chernomidin and we will always be able to speak nicely and simply against all those working in the government and against Mr Cumet and Mr Canet. That's why the day is coming when we'll finally win.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24762	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24763	I hope that these words of truth will not cause Mr. Minister's anger, as it was yesterday, so that he can put fire on my Leskovac, because I will ask only a few questions and seek answers to them. Dear voters, you know that my basic foreign exchange in this campaign, when I run for mayor of Leskovec, is to establish the most normal relations with the government of the Republic of Serbia, such relations in which Leskovac will be treated in a way that suits a city that is fifth in Serbia and has 5,000 people less. It also needs to be done at the earliest time that Belgrade loves Leskovac the way Leskovac loves Belgrade and that Belgrade, in the last 60 years, believes Leskovac for the first time. With regard to the questions for the final budget account for 2000, my first question, Mr. Minister, concerns why, if legally arranged, this law was to come before us on July 1st and arrived at the end of November of the month. The second question, I have to repeat what I was saying yesterday -- how and why the salaries in state authorities and organisations are 3.12% higher on what the Budget Law is intended and adopted, and it is known that there are some 71,000 employees in that section. I know that education has a little more employees than in state authorities and organizations, but I also know that out of the estimated 18 billion for that part, 16.1 billion were paid or that education was given 11.3% less than what the Budget Law predicted. The state authorities are important, but I don't think education is less important either. If the minister finds ways to explain that state authorities are significantly more important than education, I don't think he will have the courage and courage to compare the state authorities and the Serbian Academy of Sciences in this way as the most exclusive and clever part of this country. To remind me, the Budget Law provided for the 28m dinars for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, with 13.8% less than or 24.4m dinars. Please answer why it is when it comes to state authorities and these two parts. Finally, the third question, when in the part of the expenditure in section under VI, we see that the appropriations from the budget, for the stock reserves, for the promotion of development, for the traffic programme, that pensions in the economy are fully in line with the law, which is good and that we welcome. How did it happen to be seen in that part of the agrarian in the worst possible way, that the funds for the agrarian budget recorded an execution of 77.26% and why are they lower by almost 23%? As the agrarian, village and peasants remained short of 1.2 billion dinars in this budget execution, it is partly explained, because for the first time in the history of the Serbian village, which I remember, the Agrarian budget did not finance oil for agriculture. For the first time in 2001, the farmer and the agrarian were left without regressed oil, so that is one of the basic reasons why they remained so large in the budget. So the government abolished its decisions in the oil regression budget and thus left the village and peasants without it. It's incomprehensible, when in Europe, where we go so quickly, we know that the OECD singles out huge funds -- $311 billion for agriculture, that 31% of all income from agriculture is in the OECD -- that financial aid to the state. How can we leave the Agrarian budget for 1.2 billion? Since time is coming to me, and it's obvious what's here, my fellow countrymen and voters it's clear that I'm talking to myself, and this government isn't giving up either. And for that, don't believe anything I'm saying, which I'm just making those fools tick, and we sure as hell ain't. When I was talking about your mind yesterday, about the minds of the peasants and the people, DOS's majority laughed with a ghastly laugh. Nevertheless, I'll just say to our peasant folk saying, "You're a peasant as soon as a flour bag shakes, shakes, knocks, knocks, don't knock, so there is. How much to shake them, and it's coming out of them." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24764	People's MP, next time you're going to say goodbye to the Order of the Wooden County, or you're going to get a warning about the abuse of a pay phone. He has the word National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24765	My fellow MPs, first of all, regretfully conclude that from the promise of Minister Djelic, there will be Malta not all ministers, who will answer our questions, obviously there is nothing, not even Minister Djelic. It's sad that we're discussing the final account, and at a time when it's not for discussion, for the 2001 account, we're at the end of 2002. With a delay of at least six months, perhaps more, we are discussing the most important budget document and one year. Why is this the most important - because we MPs want to control the spending of state money. Where the ministers are to explain the item in the article here, this assembly serves, it seems to me, only to poll the people, so they don't go to the elections, and even the important budget laws we bring to the debate, and here we conduct a debate on the most important budget laws, at the time of a hot electoral atmosphere in Serbia, so that most likely "trains go through" accounts. This is also the meaning of what the Administrative Committee has decided, to raise salaries to lawmakers by 10% in the middle of the election campaign, so that the people's politics in Serbia will be disgusted. And you know why, it was appropriate for someone not to pass the election for the president, and that's quite clear. It's clear why the ministers are ignoring us here. To whom we ask questions, for what we have received as a report. What it says in the reports, let's remind ourselves -- the reports say -- for wages that many and so many millions, for material costs so much, and for some maybe special purposes so much. It's not clear. When it was a rebalancing for the agrarian budget -- we don't know, on what basis it was changing the item by a few billion dinars -- we don't know. We don't know much what, where's the Minister of Agriculture to give answers here? And then we're called by the head of the Doss Reform Group of Serbia, and he says -- we're not correct in these performances, and when are we going to be correct, but now? Now we're talking about money, that's the most important thing. I propose, on behalf of the DSS, that this assembly, this home, make a decision on the formation, on the establishment of a committee to monitor public accounts. One committee, which will continuously, throughout the year, take care of public finances, seems to me to be the only possible solution for us to follow, so that we don't constantly get into teats when it comes to public finances. Also, when we look at the report of the budget inspection for the period from 1996 to 1999, we'll see that they've done a lot of things, the report should also contain what they've done, and what will eventually be in the courts. Of course, the final word has a judgment. But, let's remind ourselves, in December 2000, we made a public promise that we would sanction the thief, not only before October 5th, but after October 5th, and certainly he does. When we see these reports, especially for the previous period, we'll see that money and politics are constantly on track. In order not to repeat that, I believe that science should also be learned, and science should be -- under the urgency of passing a law on the financing of political parties. The source of corruption in Serbia, the source of corruption especially when it comes to budget money, is the relationship between politics and political parties, the relationship between politics and money is an unbreakable relationship. A law on the financing of political parties would reduce a good part of the budget inspection report anyway. I guess we'd be where and where less of those crimes and crimes are, than we have, if there was this law. That should be our lesson. Also, when it comes to investment, believe me, especially the representatives of local self-government, we don't know what model that money is distributed by? Whether there are privileged environments, and it seems to me that there are, and when it comes to roads, and when it comes to traffic connections, and telecommunications, and everything else in education, in culture, in sport, in every domain, which is beyond the need of local self-government residents. It is sad that it is, especially when it comes to the agenda and the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax. I think we're gonna have a lot to say about that. It's sad that there are no ministers and I wonder why this debate? If there are no ministers here, what are we talking about? I'll ask you one more question. All right, we got a minister here. Another question, which my predecessors didn't mention, which is, what about the interest on the funds that lie in the budget accounts? According to some of our estimates from the DSS, considering the deposits i.e. In 2001 accounts, it is possible that between one and two billion we have interest per sight, based on these deposits, based on this lying money. Someone will say, of course, that these accounts are like flow boilers, that they just come and go to the budget user. But it's not like that, he came in today and went to the money, but there's that money for tomorrow that's going to be distributed. I'm asking what's wrong with that, because I think that's why we're having a debate, to ask a question and get an answer. If it's about these funds, here, I guess it's between 12 and 24 billion dinars, let's see how that went and we know in the future -- the National Bank keeps deposits up to a certain limit. It can also be credited to a budget user, of course, with the possibility of beating up interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24766	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24767	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first I must express a certain amount of wonder that Mr. Secretary, when it comes to his budget, is not here in the Assembly. When the 2000 budget was being discussed, he kept jumping and talking about some books here, and let's see how Mr. Djelic spent his books and to answer those questions. He's gone, but tell him. First, when this budget is projected and the tax laws, which are due to fill this budget, have been changed by Mr Djelic, with the oath that inflation in 2001 will be between 30% and 35%, you are now acknowledging that our warnings, SRS MPs, are to achieve only a fall in gross national income and inflation, nothing more. We can freely say that Mr. Djelic is one of the most responsible for inflation of 92%. In the revenue side of the 2001 budget, more than once, you were said to have had a donation of three billion 366 million, etc. And that's probably all you got from the promised six billion dollars in 2000. That's all you got and the question is-- did you get it, or in some other way you need those funds back? A lot has been mentioned and budget inspection, which has been busy for these past two years for some other years and has not controlled the budgets, for example. for 2001, because if she had controlled a little bit, we would have had a more accurate insight into all the abuses that were made during the government's mandate. I'm just going to give a few examples of how the law is broken and what abuses are made. Let's say that in the municipality of Žabari, I do not usually leave the territory of my district, it was necessary to make a 5km-long journey, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated certain funds, that these funds have been paid SO, to which the job has been entrusted. The municipal assembly has concluded a contract with a contractor for a whole section of the road, the funds have been transferred to the contractor and the road is not yet completed, only one small part from about 10% to 12%. It seems to me that the value of a job is about six million dinars, to figure out how many books it is, that's 6,000 books, to make it easier for you, you prefer books to count. The contractor is no one else, but the plague. I'd like to ask the minister if he's allowed to send a budget inspection to Cumet, to ask for interest on the accepted, not on the obligations and the penalty for the unfinished business, if that's what he can do, all the honors. I don't think he can, and that just proves the Serbian Radicals' hard work that this country is run by the mafia. As your congregations of the municipalities spend their resources...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24768	People's MP, you have no right to make such a claim at the assembly speaker, and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure which binds you to language and address you with respect, and to those present in the hall, and to those on whom you place the courts at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24769	Madam President, I'd like to warn you to take the SRS away from the time of two minutes, how long your controversy lasted with the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24770	Until the last second, all that was taken away by mutual dialogue is at the expense of the time of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24771	Two and a half minutes, please. For example, the Kuchevo Municipality Assembly, one item in the budget of 3 billion 660 million dinars, is the donations of Elektroprivred. The electricity industry spent most of the donations on the reconstruction of the low voltage network, so the power distribution, that's what the 2003 budget says, is about about 6 billion dinars, and what are your municipalities doing where you are in power? They get funds from the Republic, they transfer funds to construction directorates, directorates to build a design plan that they will make a reconstruction of the low voltage network, divide them into local communities and steam - the eating of cats. The real reconstruction is done by the money that was given from this budget, so it happens that you charged the people three times for the reconstruction of the low voltage grid. For the first time, through the dredging, what are your electricity prices, the second time by paying a 20% tax for each spent kilowatt and third time through taxes and contributions belonging to the authorities of local self-government. Why aren't there any such reports in this final account? Calculate how many books it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24772	The People's Messenger Zoran Angelkovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're trying to talk about the final bill for 2001, or more specifically, we're trying to figure out which figures are true here, what in this final account for 2001 is spent and how it's spent. It is hard to find out anything for the simple reason that here, mainly in this report supplement, describes some facts, without figures where the funds have been spent, in this first part of the order that we have received when this agenda is proposed, it is essentially only seen that the current budget reserve has been spent, and not to the soul, not the whole part, but only the part, but the only thing that can be immediately, without great debates, is that the public can first see how transparent it is by weight, if not by the number of sides, transparent budget for 2001, i.e. the final account compared to 2000 and how badly it wishes to provide the Members with information on what it is and how these funds have been spent. Secondly, you can see clearly from ordinary figures, which is that this budget compared to 2000 is almost four times the amount of funds, which is almost 130 billion, 127 billion compared to 34 billion for 2000. This is, of course, about how much more has been taken from the citizens of Serbia for so many times, so almost 100 billion have been taken from more than the citizens of Serbia, the hand has been dragged into the pocket of Serbian citizens and taken from them, and did we actually get a better standard of those who spend the budget, first of all I mean wages because it is the only thing that can be seen here. Is it better to live people who are employed in health care, education, the police, the judiciary? No, they certainly don't live better than the economic standards they had in 2000, they don't live any better, against the bad, they clearly say. Secondly, when we talk about the current budget reserve, we've heard that this final account is the most transparent and the best since 1947. No, here we are today, here for several hours, we haven't heard today what he's best at, except that he's, of course, the most expensive. Maybe it's the best, because it's the most expensive, but by explaining where the money was spent, we just didn't hear it today. We may have been able to hear that the best of Emperor Dushan is here, but a few of those things that appear here, when it comes to the current budget reserve, since she is essentially the only one here, it is only possible to treat her because she is seen in some way. What do you see from this and what could we hear, like yesterday? Yesterday we heard here about the financing of political parties, how they finance themselves, so the hardest thing is, a contract was signed between the financial police and the Socialist Party around the Uste Business Centre, which is so torn down, so it can't be used. There's one change around the Usce Business Centre since I've checked a little bit, there's one garage of 5,000 squares that hasn't been knocked down, and it's been leased, but it's an even bigger problem than that, which is something else, which is these 5,000 squares of garage and 20,000 squares of collapsed space, sold, imagine, for even 10 million marks or 300 million dinars, and 500 meters away, means, with electricity, water, sewerage, telephones, arranged business space, and 500 meters away, water-free land, electricity, no arrangements of any kind, "Mercator", it's given for 17 million marks, just for the country's compensation. It's probably about honesty, about legality, about morality. Can you imagine who bought that? He bought the same one that bought three sugars for three dollars or three euros per Vojvodina, the same man who was, imagine more, and the director of the Democratic Party for several or ten years. It's actually the essence of that story. Yesterday we heard here that G-17, not G-17 plus, G-17 did protocol in October of 2000 on the delivery of flour to bakers, because they say -- the lack of flour was, I don't know, a lack of bread, I heard it yesterday, and in September that bread cost three dinars, to remind, in 2000 and delivered. Probably G-17 thought he'd get big donations and big money, that he'd pay for it himself, when the Directorate delivered it, we see criminal charges to the Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate because the flour didn't come back, and the new government took over and paid off a billion 544 million. Now, what she paid for G-17 means she directly funded G-17 and their protocol with bakers, that's one problem, it's a direct funding of a political organisation or party, I don't know what they're going to call it, they haven't published it, the bigger problem is something else. Who had the right to sign that, who has the right to grant those funds, and where are those funds, in what position? Whether on current budget reserves, and there aren't, I'm looking here, whether the Ministry of Agriculture, the agrarian budget, or where that billion 544 million are shown here. To be a little clearer when it comes to a billion 544 million, it's no less than 40 budgets of the province's interim government in the war years of 1999, the one you say she had no right to spend 2 million and something for television. When it comes to the current budget reserve, how is it spent? So, those 40 years are settled here. It is said here in Article 11 of this report of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can transfer the funds to the current budget reserve allocated by this law which is determined not to be spent and distributed for other purposes. That's right. That's what the law says. This, however, is also said in the 1999 Law on the budget of the province government in Article 5 and not at 11 because they differ, and in Article 6 of this Law, it says that the current budget reserve schedule is carried out by the province government, and here the Republic Government. It's just, there's one difference. When we make the decision to spend the current budget reserve and advances, and spend it, for 2.5 million, it's a criminal application for non-intentional spending. When the government spends 300 million for RTS and advances, and it only verified in February 2002, it's not accidental spending. Where's the right to spend 300 million on RTS? So, he has the right to RTS, where only, of course, only the ruling majority of the paintings are to spend, and the province government had no right to spend two years before that 2.5 million dinars for radio in Gracanica, so that Serbs would listen to radio in Serbian language in July and August of the month, or to radio in Strpci, Gorazdevc, Zvecan. For that, the province government, because it was in Kosovo and was trying to keep 120,000 Serbs, as far as it is now, had no right, and this is a criminal report, and this government can spend 300m dinars cold for RTS because it previously boasted that it wanted to abolish the tax, because it was a political marketing that also had political points in December 2000. Based on what? Does RTS need 300 million? It probably needs more. Now I see in this rebalancing that there will be another 2.5 billion, based on what. How about this? Then please file the same criminal charges as we have, and for what we've given the Serbs to do radio in Gracanica, we're going to jail, but I'm asking these to go for 300 million. And these 300 million are no less than seven annual budgets of the interim government for 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija. But let's move on. It says here, too -- the current KIM budget reserves for the Coordination Centre spent 150 million dinars. Be careful, for 40 million temporary governments, in war conditions, had according to the adopted budget in the Republic of Serbia. It was adopted with rights and obligations, and everything was taxed on what they can do, and what they can't, where they can spend, but there was a criminal report because the decision was made to spend those funds on the current budget reserve. And here, 150 million for the Coordination Center. Who made the decisions? On what basis can these funds be allocated to the Coordination Centre? You're going to tell me that the decision was made by the federal government, as well as by the Republic, to form the Coordination Centre, and that's true. Is he needed? Yes, it is. Just why the Assembly didn't make a decision. If the government dares to do so, then the previous one may. If he can't, then I'm asking for criminal charges. How was $150 million spent? Again, there are four annual budgets in war conditions, when we were trying to keep 120,000 Serbs at KIM. Then how can he spend $150 million and where is it spent? Is it spent? Where was it spent? No one knows. With 40m, 120,000 Serbs were detained in Kosovo, and with 150 -- how many Serbs were returned to Kosovo? I guess that was the mission - to come back. Here's the budget of the Republic Assembly, which says, of course, how much is spent for what it's spent. This was adopted here in the Assembly (he holds the material in his hands), so he says - 43 million 622,000, the final bill for 1999. It is also said here that there was no final bill for the MUP, but here, also in the 1999 final account in Official List 12, page 407, reads: Split the MUP, for 1999, 4,918,472,000. It's all true. It's all the facts that stand here, and that's how it happened. Of course, we can talk about it, and it's probably intentional when you take the guns and enter the NBJ. It's not our invention. That's what the police minister said, that the current governor of the NBJ took over the NBJ rifles. You probably have the right to carry guns and enter the NBJ vault. You can probably verify the current budget reserve a year later, after spending, in February of 2000, you just don't have the right to make a decision in advance, when you're in power, about deploying the current budget reserve and spending it, and for that criminal application. However, the previous one was rejected for 2000 by the same method. This one's gonna bounce, too, but you don't care about that. That's not what this is all about. The intention here is to run a campaign against people, to demystify these people, to destroy the SPS and to only work against the SPS. And when you spend 127 billion, without any decisions, then it's all fine and all fair, which we would say is transparent. So much for that transparent. When it comes to funding NGOs now, the Serbian National Assembly at KIM received 450,000 and as -- that's not good, and how political parties are financed... No, I didn't overstep. I'll spend the time of my parliamentary group, don't worry, it's my problem with them. And as you financed yourself, I wasn't talking about it, Mr. Tim Marshall wrote that the sacks are money for the current government. the opposition passed on. Sue him, don't tell me, I didn't say you broke money from abroad the way you got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24774	I'm asking MP Arsen Kuryack if he wants to address as the first speaker in the afternoon part of the session, bearing in mind that there are only three minutes left. It fits. I set a break until 15.00 hours, when we start working in the afternoon order. The first speaker is the People's MP Arsen Kurjački, and after that, MP Miroljub Veljkovic. [[After break – 15.40.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate on the principle of the final budget bill for 2001, in the order of the registered Members of Parliament. Please, let's determine if we have a quorum to work with. Here you go. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Arsen Kurjački has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24776	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister has no, distinguished colleagues, in the 2001 final account, there is no real report on how to implement the Agrarian budget. I'll look back on that part. In chapter "The Explanation" on page 15, the whole of agriculture is covered by only one sentence, and I quote: "In the structure of total expenditure, the funds intended to carry out the expenditure of the Agricultural budget are made in total amount of 3,940 billion dinars or 77.26% of the plan". In the first addition that we received after last session's break, a report on the 2001 final budget bill, on page 11, said among other things: "The Law on the Use of Agricultural Budget Funds found that funds for the development of agriculture and villages would be used in line with the strategy for the long-term development of agriculture, villages, food industry, forestry and water industry and the economic policy of the government for 2001". That's all the government thought the National Assembly should know, as well as all citizens on the Agrarian budget, and therefore also on agrarian policy. If we know that this assembly has never been presented with either economic or any other programme, let alone any work report, or the implementation of these programmes, the question arises, on what basis has the Ministry of Agriculture been working and spending money? The strategy for long-term development of agriculture has not yet been able to define it in the contours in two years, let alone to make it whole and present it to this assembly, as it should be. So if it is to trust the minister to work in accordance with the strategy, as it writes, then it can only be she from the time of the previous regime. From the time our agriculture suffered a complete collapse, when agricultural combinations and cooperatives, due to the loss of substance, began to fall under bankruptcy and liquidation, when hundreds of thousands of paoric households were wrapped up in black each year, when the state systematically robbed everyone who lived from agriculture and militias of archaics the natural and national treasures of this country and the people. Should agriculture continue to work according to this strategy? Which is why the Minister is so busy, when for these two years there is still no sign of a strategic view of the development of our agrarian and his place in Serbia's economy without talking about the EU. Is that discontinuity from the previous government? Is that a promise to the citizens on October 5, 2000? It is clear that in the Ministry of Agriculture only personal leaders have changed, and that the way they work and treat agriculture remains the same or perhaps worse? Apparently there is a continuation of continuity, no concern for the agrarian. In order for this to not be a mere speculation, I will illustrate only examples of the participation of the Agricultural Budget in the overall budget. You'll see a tendency of constant reduction. In 1997, the participation of the Agricultural Budget was 6,61%,1998. The year was 5.94%,1999. Year 4,87%,2000. Year 4,74%. The new government comes in 2001 3.94% planned, and unfortunately less than 3.09%,2002. 3.64% were planned and 2.17% were rebalanced in the budget. Is it a breakup with a pattern of behavioral transfer of all failures of economic policy and dubiosis, on the back of peasants and agriculture. On the contrary, why would this youth, sitting up there, "you're much alike." As much as this ministry, or government, cares about the development of agriculture and the repair of its catastrophic position, it also speaks of the realisation of the budget. In fact, of this under-planned sum of 5 million dinars in 2001, only 77.26% were realised. 3.940.14 billion dinars, which is only 3.09% of the entire budget, as I said earlier. So, Minister, even these small funds didn't go all the way into the development of agrarians, they cut 1,160,000,000 dinars to our cattlemen, to our rabblers, to all producers to say the picturesque "white bread black hand". It's not cut, we've seen from the budget, white collars, or bureaucracy, but from the peasants. Why it's done, for peasants it's less important at this point, than knowing that someone has denied them what was planned and should have belonged to them, and yet it's not their job, but the job of our MPs is that. We have to ask the government to provide us with a detailed explanation of who played it with the money, or the funds that were designed and intended to belong to agriculture. Was the funds spent because there was no annual work programme, so the budget wasn't realistically planned for it? Was it pre-named budget? Have all the planned measures been implemented? Is it possible that certain obligations were not deliberately irreconcilable and transferred in 2002 or were the assets intended for agrarian being abused and allocated for other purposes? Why is there no budget rebalance required to determine that less funds are being invested in agriculture? All these questions must be answered by the Government in the regular report that we receive, not by the MPs themselves having to carry out the expertise of each budget item and asking for constant supplementary reports as was the case now. The impression is that we need ministers to turn our hands to obtain information that belongs to us as the National Assembly. Last time we at the DSS tried to discuss this budget, but we really couldn't discuss it, because we didn't have any serious data, because the final account report was clouded, the nerd presented, without any possibility of seeing the real situation. This is the most serious document to be discussed by this Assembly and this is what Mr Djelic said well yesterday and there is no more important job for this Assembly than to scan, x-ray every item of this budget and give confirmation of that state and that policy or deny trust. So we can't argue if we don't have everything we need. We received a new supplemental report this morning on the implementation of the budget which, you will admit, is quite inconclusive for such a serious job and it was difficult for such a short time to review, but I will single out only a few characteristic items that talk about the seriousness of the ministry and the entire government in general about agrarians. In item 3 - other obligations laid down by law, paragraph - improvement of livestock, the position of realisation carried out by 66.7%. It is explained that these funds are intended for selection measures in livestock production. The question arises whether we have such a good race composition that there is no need for these little resources to be spent to improve racial composition. The next item is animal health, carried out with only 35%. Under animal health, that's what the people of all times are interested in, among other things, in paying the damage to the destroyed throats. Anyone who understands little about animal health knows that the underlying problem with trihinology is that payoff for destroyed throats, which is absolutely not paid. The problem with the peasants is that no one pays for the removal of the corpses, so those bodies infected with triglycose are placed on some dumps near the village, where then the rodents who carry the cycle come and keep going. Instead of these small funds being entered, this was used only at 35%. Pretty irresponsible by the ministry. We have an item on the agricultural land, which is one-digit, with 6.7% of all realization. The reason is that the unfavourable conditions of loan security and the poor economic position of primary producers have prevented more use of these funds. What is the primary job of the ministry rather than improving the economic position of agricultural producers. What are the measures made to define that position differently? Another characteristic measure, measures and actions in agriculture that are realised with only 44%. The funds from this position are said to have been used to help all events related to rural development, from the participation in the construction of certain infrastructure facilities, the organisation of livestock exhibitions, etc. Donated by our agriculture, Mr. Zaharija Trnavčević at the Committee on Agriculture keeps saying that it is necessary and necessary to educate peasants and explain all the sciences that are in agriculture. We see here that there's no sign of it, that only 44% was used. So what's the problem and where the ministry should be hired, where it needs to be done more seriously, it's not done, the funds are not used, they remain unused or as I said, perhaps abused for some other purposes that are more important to this government than the development of agriculture and agrarians at all. So, in order to make clear about this budget, that is, the part of the agrarian budget that I have been discussing, it is necessary to clarify many things that have not been presented so far. With this report, however, there are a little more clarifications, but of all these explanations, which we expect will be made by the government, when they arrive in the evening, will depend, of course, on how this House will plead. I count that this multiparty membership is not important, but it is important how we treat the agrarian in the future and how we are going to make this government seriously think about agriculture and development. We'll only make her do it if we bring them here to explain and tell us how our agrarian will continue to develop.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24777	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister went out for a pay phone 14 times yesterday to attack the final budget bill for 2000. In writing this material, he illegally hired more than 40 people. He hasn't come out today to defend the final budget bill he's been carrying out. In the audit, only four budgetary inspectors were involved in the analysis of the final account and this tells you enough about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you add to this the fact that the Ministry of Finance first delivered one legal addition to the 2001 budget accounts, which came to the Serbian Parliament on 3 December, and that during the debate this morning we received another illegal report, another illegal supplement, which was not even introduced in the expedition of the National Assembly of Serbia and has a mark called only - a new text, then it seems clear that this Assembly still seems to be working only because there are pressures and blackmails or there is pressure and blackmail that there will fall budgets or there will be pressure and blackmail that someone will lose a mandate, and we do not depend on whether the budget will fall, or whether they will take away mandates, but only from the will of the citizens, we sit in the benches and wait for how, with which assembly DOS -Reforme has an agreement. Now it's obvious he has a deal with a smaller group of MPs who used to be with the government, down the government, down the water, and now it's again, apparently, with the government. Now, let's start to analyze the data a little bit and let the citizens of Serbia know how much they contributed to the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Incomes have been increased, of course, on the basis of taxes, because this is the tax government and this finance minister is, in fact, the tax minister. He's not a real finance minister. They have been increased to the extent that the income tax of citizens is almost equal to the budget for 2000, that the income tax is almost equal to the budget for the previous year, that these two taxes, corporate income tax and compared to the income of citizens, are much higher than they were planned. The government has not made an effort to see how much it takes from the citizens and from the fallen economy over the year, so that it eventually reduces the requirements. The government in realising a huge budget, a budget of 125 billion dinars, went to the end, so instead of reporting business for 2001, the government's report, so that even then in time to criticise it, that we are potentially affecting the reduction of interventions from citizens and businesses, it has allowed almost two years to elapse and now it comes to us with one bad material. Of course, excise duties and sales taxes were achieved at almost 20% higher than planned. The sales tax has increased to 29 billion by eight billion, so total revenues for 18 billion dinars are higher than planned total revenues. When you look at the expenditure item, you would expect that the excess income over expenditure was used, at the very least, for social programmes. But it concerns the fact that, say, the social fund for one-time assistance, which was planned with three billion dinars, was made with 423 million dinars. It worries that funding for social programmes, compared to the plan, has been achieved by 80 per cent. In a transition society, not to mention that this transition fund has been achieved in a small amount than was planned, that the Agrarian budget is less achieved by a billion and 100 million dinars. At five billion and 100, as planned, that's a huge number, that's 20%. That's why traffic programs were made 2.7 billion more than planned. I would like to warn you that all social funds have been reduced, that the transition fund has been reduced, that the agrarian fund has been less implemented, and that only traffic programmes have increased from seven planned billion to nearly 10 billion in implementation. Of course, 66 million dinars for social and other organizations have gone. It would be interesting to know about any other organizations. To compare the little fund Nebojsa Covic used with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Almost the same number. The Republika Srpska Development Fund was realised with 497m dinars and the Nebojja Covic Fund with 498m dinars. Compare 498 million dinars, I don't count that billion and 330 million that went to the land's security zone, I'm just talking about what's going directly to Nebojsa Covic - 498 million dinars, and none of you are asking where it went, and you're asking the National Assembly how she spent 175 million dinars for her work that year, the Nardon Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the most legislative body, in which there are at least 250 MPs, and once there were 308. (President: National MP, this is the time spent by the SRS parliamentary group. If I can just have one more minute and I won't answer again. This is where the extra profit revenues are mentioned. Yesterday I was called here as an extraprofitter, commended for paying for the extra profit. Of course, I do cynicism with young people I understand. I have to tell you that I couldn't act like that rabbit that was running from Bosnia when he heard he was making bulls, so I could run when DOS came to power. I've done everything in my life in accordance with the law. Two years later, you made me an extraprofessor. I'm telling you, when the power changes, the extra-profit will be charged with someone who enjoys police protection and rides in armored jeeps today, and maybe he thinks he's right to do it. He could be an extraprofitter and the Prime Minister who lives on Dedinj, because he could have some assembly in two or three years to pass a law by which he would decide that three years ago he was the extraprofessor who lived on Dedinj. If there is an inhospitable majority of the messengers who vote, there is a label for you on a man. But look, when you're using these teams, think about how long it takes to live in this Serbia, and by hurting some people, you're hurting yourself. One day you'll get all those injuries back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24779	The word has a folk MP Rada Bajic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24780	Dear People's MPs, we have the final budget bill for 2001. If the government had been "transparent", as it often does, and it likes to say for itself, then this report would have been over 50 pages instead of a thousand pages, because four times the 2000 budget, and six times more funds in 2001 were shown only on 40 pages. So much for that. The projected budget deficit for 2001 was around 22 billion. The report said that only 11 billion were covered and that 8.2 billion from the National Bank's loan and about 3 billion from donations. It said there, when the SMO projected the budget, it would be covered by donations, foreign loans, loans from domestic banks and privatisations. If we know that no money has been won from privatisation, then where's half the funds he's covered the deficit with? If the execution of 127 billion and 125 billion revenue is made, it is clear that the deficit is 2 billion, and that the difference is covered by an additional burden, i.e. the income tax on citizens of six billion and a turnover tax of 8 billion. Since we have no right to more than 30 and a few minutes under your new Rules of Procedure, I would refer only to four elements of this budget. I don't know why individuals complain here when we call the 500m Nebojja Covic fund, or an additional 150m for Kosovo. Make it three billion for Kosovo, but let's know that it's spent on improving the lives of these people and solving problems. But no single dollar was told where it was spent. Well, I won't hear from his MP that he has every penny, so I want to have, so when the citizen asks me, I know what it's spent on Kosovo. Besides, she said they're making their way, they're going for it. Well, for the land's security zone, a billion and 500 are foreseen, and a billion and 331 million are spent. Well, I guess those funds made infrastructures in the land security zone. It says here that a billion and 800 million were spent for bank restructuring, and 600 million were planned. So did it take a billion and 800 million to get rid of street workers, destroy Yugoslavia's banking system, and the largest banks shut down? Well, if that took a billion and 800 million, then it's good for the government. And on the other hand, in one segment there, it says that the government made a decision on December 3rd 2001 to assign to the National Bank and 400 million for the social programmes of the laid-off workers, and these 600 million that were in the budget. It doesn't say anywhere whether it's in charge, where it's gone and whether those funds have been invested in solving the social problems of fired workers. When it comes to the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, did the ministry raise one company to its feet? In that famous attack budget of 2000, the government managed to raise the destroyed companies, such as the flag, the Cer factory in Cačka, all the dedicated industry, the oil processing and refinery in Novi Sad and Panchev, from the four-time smaller budget, and now not a single company has been raised, but rather, what was good is being sold out. When it comes to refugee segments, 800 and some million are planned, and 302 million are spent. In one part of the report, it is said that the funds are provided for the diet and welfare of whites. Well, people, for 600 million, 600,000 refugees have only one thousand per member of the household in a year. So is a thousand dinars enough to drain refugees for a year, per member of the household? The refugee commissioner says it was now whether one meal can be provided for refugees, and we haven't spent 300 million. I just don't see it from the report. We may have wrongly attacked that government, perhaps the Refugee Commissioner has not delivered the plan and has not asked for funds to be realised, but the fact is that 302 million were less spent on this most pronounced problem, which weighs us down, or 600,000 refugees in Serbia. Couldn't buy at least 500 households with gardens for those 300 million in Eastern Serbia, or some parts of Banat, and have 500 families settled and had a permanent residence, had something to live on, didn't live in social misery and some collective housing. So someone has to answer this question. And simply, a series of questions can be asked here because this is a budget, or final account that has no clarity at all and has no coverage. You have several or more presidents of municipalities and cities. Why don't you ask them on your MP groups if they'd be willing to be presented with a budget like this? They certainly wouldn't, they'd have brought him back and they'd have said he wasn't answering, they'd have put him back to work. So I don't think a budget like this can be adopted with this kind of misunderstanding and these kind of failures.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24781	There is a word from MP Milan Radulovic, and the last reported MP is Hranislav Peric, but since the time available to the SPS MP group has been spent, then Mr Milan Radulovic is the last registered speaker in the debate in principle. The time for the DSS parliamentary group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24782	Dear People's MPs, since we've heard a lot of critical words about this accounting file, which we're considering today, I'm going to begin with one commendation of this text. In fact, Minister Djelic showed us exactly how the government raised money in 2001 and showed how effective it was in the business, and how the government distributed that money. In the distribution, to the soul, it was even more efficient, so it made a deficit of two billion and 700 million, but okay, on the accounting side, it's all figures, revenues and expenditures. The file, however, could be useful to the Federal Bureau of Statistics, the Economic Institute and the people involved in the movement of money in the state. This paper is also extremely useful for foreign, foreign financial institutions, which watch the money mass moving in us, whether the budget is financed from real income, how much the deficit is made, etc. So Minister Djelic did not put forth a vain effort. He just missed the address. We're not the IMF, we're not the Federal Bureau of Statistics, we're the National Assembly. This report may serve some institutions, but for the National Assembly, the report, or final account, the ministers, must possess and have a very detailed explanation of expenditure, by division. This report doesn't have it. The simplest, brief and clearly speaking, in this report there is no justification for expenditure per division. Let me illustrate this to some examples -- the minister, I suppose, and I am confident, read his entire report, but here, let him take the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, take a look at his first version of the report, look at his additions, and the other additions, what he will find there -- there he will find that the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development has been sharing funds under the Law on Scientific and Research Activity and by the Law on Public Revenue and Expension. It will also find that a billion and 650 million were planned to carry out the contract, with a billion and 162 million being reached. So, about 500 million less than the plan. Of course Minister Djelic cannot answer me simple questions - why is scientific activity in Serbia financed by 500 million less in 2001 than it was intended, and cannot possibly answer the question -- what are the programmes financed, how many scientific programs does the Republic of Serbia have, how many science projects does the Republic of Serbia have, how many scientific researchers have, is the money allocated correctly to the development of technical and technological, biomedical and humanistic and cultural sciences? If we had received a list of projects and programs that the Government is funding, we could have asked the minister -- is that money rationally spent, is there perhaps some proportion between funding the development of humanistic and cultural sciences on one side, and technical and technological on the other, as is said in scientific circles? Has the Ministry of Science spent money unnecessarily on some purely technical activities, which have nothing to do with research and even with the application of scientific results? In one word, we could then specifically ask - what is scientific policy in Serbia? We can't ask that question because we don't have any of these programs, not a single project, it's not possible to ask that question. Or, let's take the Ministry of Education and Sports -- it said that 50 million were planned for the development of the reform of the education system and spent close to 24. So 26 million less than plan. Why was it cut off on this item? An even more important question would be to ask the Minister of Education, if he had given us what these 24 million were spent on, so we would ask him to tell us how reforms of the educational system in Serbia are being carried out, what was done for that 24 million, who are members of his various expert teams, which should theoretically design a system reform? We can't ask anything, because the man didn't specify a single item, in any explanation, it doesn't matter what the context of reforming the money given system is about? There is no explanation of why the Ministry of Education received about four billion less than was planned in that year. Let's say, let's take the Ministry of Culture, where it's said -- the government's approved solution has been executed about 200 million less than planned. For cultural programmes, 110 were planned and around 180 million were spent. There, therefore, we have an increase. Then we have that the building of employees in over 150 cultural institutions was defused with 896 million funds, and they got 533. Why 150 cultural institutions in Serbia received 300 million less for profit, and it says nicely in the explanation that the funds were provided. We'd find it even more interesting if the culture minister could say, of these 180 million he's given in the programmes, and we have an increase of 70 million, which programs he's funded, which programs have the Ministry of Culture funded? Instead, we have only listed a taxary dozen institutions of exceptional importance financed by the ministry. If he had listed which programmes he financed, we could ask him, were they priority programs, what are the effects of these programmes, whether the cultural awareness of our society has been raised, as they say, and on a higher level, did we come to a situation that we have or do not have a cultural strategy for the development of society, does the Ministry of Culture have any strategy when it comes to culture? Then we could ask him if it's true that there are two parallel systems in the National Library, the one that installed the Ministry and the one that financed Soros? What's that parallel system doing, what's the effect? We could also ask him if it is true that in Serbia's cultural policy in 2001 and 2002, projects that Serbian culture should make a ethyglon trabant, the so-called post of modernist European culture, are favoured. Is there in this society and in this ministry, awareness that the Ministry of Culture, if it wants to integrate into the European cultural system, is obliged to preserve the entire national culture, because European culture must be a collection and synthesis of all national cultures. There's no global culture, there's only national culture. Is, therefore, this way of interpreting European culture, in the sense that we should be epigons, marginal, and their cultural movements, spending and money, rather than investing in preserving cultural identity? Who has the right to deprive the European culture of Serb components, who has the right to deprive the European culture of Serbian Cyrillics? No one has a right, and we owe, not only as a nation, Europe is asking us to keep all our authentic and indigenous cultural values. Were there any of these programs that the Ministry funded? I don't know, maybe it was. Or, let's take gentlemen, the Ministry of Faith, it's been planned 31 million, and it's been spent about 40 million. It says, look at the explanation, why this was spent, except for employees' salaries, it says - we have participation for pension and disability insurance of priests, assistance to church municipalities for the construction of religious facilities, assistance to the Ministry of Reconstruction and Construction of Objects and to improve the conditions of life in monasteries, assistance to eparchys, assistance to central church institutions, the Faculty of Godology and seminary, as well as assistance to other religious communities. Literally rewritten from the final account for 2000. Can the minister of faith give us some information that the diocese has been helping, can he tell us which monasteries and how much he's given, can the minister of religion tell us another very simple thing, by what law does the Ministry of Faith work? The minister of religion is obliged to explain to Parliament why he did not offer the Law on Religious Communities, why the Serbian Orthodox Church is as the state-owned energy of this people, an allegation, why other religious communities are registered as associations of citizens, why some religious associations are an illegal organisation, and they act freely. Why he did not offer a law returning church property to religious communities, so they could eventually finance themselves, why he did not explain to the Assembly that the property of religious communities was not private in a narrow sense, but in its own way collectively and not in the function of profit, but in the function of culture. So there's no basis by which all the other ministries have listed, this one, and I've quoted the laws by which they share the funds. There are no laws here, because the ministry has not proposed laws. In one word, we are dealing with an unserious, truly unserious report, we are dealing with a report that missed the address and we have in this report proof that someone, in this case the Government, is trying to humiliate the MPs. You can't hand over a final account report like this. It can't because there isn't, there's no reason for the expenditure at all, and based on the reasons for the expenditure, we could see, not only are those funds being spent legally, and I don't want to doubt that they are. Not only were they spent on purpose, I don't want to suspect, they were spent on purpose, but were they spent rationally, was it spent, what effect was given by investing those funds into certain programs? And finally, from these arguments, we would see what kind of cultural policy is run by the Serbian government, what kind of scientific policy, what educational policy and what policy the reform government has chosen in relation to religious communities. We don't see it at all, Mr. Minister. I understand you, you're trying to defend something that you're sure is unprotective, you said this was the best report, and yesterday you had one much better, much more detailed, and all of these ministries in the final account have given as much -- so much, precisely, as they've allocated the funds, and it hasn't been done here either. So, the worst possible report that can serve you as a rapper, that's the one for 2000, and this one can't serve for anything, he missed the address. He can only serve the Federal Bureau of Statistics and the International Monetary Fund to realize that your government is holding on, to be realistically funded and not to create a major deficit. He can't serve the Assembly. So, without any ill will, I know you couldn't put together a better report, because you say the ministries didn't give you a report, they didn't want to, but when they do, they'll have to file reports about why they were spending money, when we're going to have to talk about everyone's strategy, about politics in each of these areas that I've listed. This is the way, you simply offered one report and defended it, counting that there would be an MP here who would accept everything coming from the government. You can't accept everything, gentlemen. I'm not a suspicious man. I don't want to question the government. We as MPs are obliged to have a reserved critical and constructive relationship with the government. We are obliged to search for information on which we could judge, not only how the funds are spent, but what they are spent on. You can't see it here, you can't see it in these four ministries and you've seen it for yourself. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you would do very well not to bring down your professional references, to withdraw this final budget, or text because, from 1945 to today, there may have been worse reports, but there must be no worse reports. You can't watch what they were doing and how the communists made final accounts, unless you want to make sure you can't do that. If you want to see how the final accounts are made for the Assembly, and you have no experience because you are doing it for the first time, look at the final accounts of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and France, so give us such a final account and we will discuss it. In order to talk about this at all, it is necessary, therefore, to do the next thing. First, withdraw this law. Secondly, to form a assembly board for the control of public finances, to form an audit committee that you mentioned, to form a vault, then there won't be a non-intentional spending, all the funds will go through one centralized account, consolidated and next thing, to pass a law on ministers, because we heard scandalous things here yesterday. We heard that the Serbian government was right, and today it has it, that it has the means to do what it wants; to take it from here and transfer it there, to spend on some system and its current political assessment of the current state of affairs in the state. There is no law on ministers that will prescribe exactly what the powers of the minister and what his responsibilities are. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia had the Ministers' Law, so must this one. Ministers, ministries and governments have too much authority. You inherited a system in which political oligarchy and its will for 60 years was a law for the people. You can't do that anymore. You have to change the laws. Institutions must be introduced. Laws must be passed that will reduce powers for ministers but also increase responsibility for the availability of state resources, force them, especially to force them to, when discussing the final bill to sit here, to explain to people, MPs and the public their general political orientation in a particular area. So, really, this is an insufferable report, at least as far as these four ministries are concerned. You've read it yourself and seen it's not culturally offered to the MPs. It really isn't. It's insufferable. Do you cover their reports, if they've even delivered the reports to you, and you've written nothing that's your business, but the reports have to come. You've had them for 2000. Give it to me for 2001. It's been a whole year, I guess they know where they spent the money, what programs they funded. When we receive such reports, then we will be able, Mr. Jovanovic, to speak specifically, as you ask us to. What I specifically talk about the Ministry of Science when there's not a single project. There's not a single program. How do we talk? I can only say there's nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24783	This is the last registered speaker. The Minister answered for the word, he didn't. The presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right to speak and MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and then MP Branislav Ivkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24784	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the esteemed chairman, are making all citizens who are currently monitoring this programme, I would say that the authorized persons of President Kostunica in the RIK during a search on the voter's list, during the next five days, have found that on the voter's list 835,000 unlisted voters. Since the voter list of wrongly registered voters in the DSS possession, and has been seriously threatened by the fact that this evidence would be taken away, because someone does not care to finally put an end to all irregularities and machinations with the voter list, DSS MPs will leave the session and go to protect material evidence, proving how and what has been done in Serbia. The DSS emissaries are leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24785	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can see that the speakers behind this pay phone are not in an equal position, since they don't have a glass of water as they have the chairman, so I'd like to ask those of us who speak here to bring a glass of water. The president of the parliamentary group of National Socialists has 20 minutes left. I won't use it all the time. I had to do something until the DSS MPs, who seem to have decided to be an opposition, fulfilled their intention and left the O.R. I find it really difficult as a Serbian citizen to assume that a genocide has been committed against the Serb people and that there are currently 800,000 fewer citizens of Serbia than it was on September 24, 2000, because it is the same electoral list. Therefore, the DSS may also respond as was the result of September 24th 2000. Dear Mr Djelic, on behalf of the national Socialists and all the socialists and leftists in Serbia, I thank you for the report on the 2001 final budget account, because your report is the best promotion of the idea of Socialists in Serbia. Your final account report... I'd ask you to ask those who don't find this interesting to come out of or take a break. [[Sagar.]] Can I go on? When a more detailed review of the 2001 final account report is made, it can be seen that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia is a very right-wing government, which at the same time succeeding in a well-intentioned financial discipline to fill the budget, on the other hand, that revenue, which 98.43%, has very unevenly distributed, has distributed it so that it has abolished all those social positions and above all for social activities. Before that, I would like to point out the Budgetary System Act that you proposed to Mr Djelic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to Article 65. The law was passed this year in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and clearly points to the content of the final account. There are exactly ten items that the final account must have in order to come before the Republika Srpska Assembly at all. The tenth paragraph clearly states that the final account must have a report on the external audit of the final account. Thus, according to the budget system law, Article 65 of the last paragraph 10 is found to be an integral part of the final account for a given year and a report on the external audit carried out. For this situation, Article 80 provided for a transitional provision that implies that the National Assembly, before selecting an expert house that will carry out an external audit, chooses individuals - experts, who will audit the budget. I think you agree with me that so far the National Assembly has not chosen individuals who will be auditing and that there is a Law on the Final Budget Bill for 2001, and that we do not have any external control, which the law has foreseen. So it's not even satisfied with the wording in Article 80. I wouldn't be talking about control if you hadn't initiated the tens and hundreds of thousands of controls yourself for the previous years, and it's a very unpleasant position for you as a minister that you who initiated ugly controls and gave people's names and prejudged judgments have no situation that your own final budget bill for 2001 is controlled. What she was doing in 2001 is clear, and this report says that she was having fun during the 2001 budget of 2000, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. However, I would explain why I said that you are essentially the biggest promoter of the socialist ideas in Serbia. You've done something that hasn't worked so far. You should be congratulated on that. You've tightened your financial discipline, made a budget charge of 98.43%. However, it is interesting how the budget has been allocated so filled. I have to say, you were some mother, some stepmother. No criteria can be seen why, according to some government budget of the Republic of Serbia, he was a mother and why he was waving, and the worst thing is that he was a stepmother to those who were the weakest and who needed the most help. If we take a closer look at the budget ourselves, we can note that you are employed in the government of the Republic of Serbia's state bodies in a situation where the budget has been realised 100%, you have made an effort to pay both material costs and so on. For the work of the state authorities to be filled exactly according to plan 19.5 billion is the plan and 19.5 billion achievements. However, the first step is to trip, so when it comes to the means of achieving the law established rights in public services, which are education, science, culture, etc., there is a planned 25 billion, and the realization of 20 billion. So the difference is 5 billion dinars. Why and why? In your Budgetary System Act, I would like to remind you, in Article 65(6), it is clearly said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing a law on the final account of the budget to provide justification and reasons for the important differences between planned and achieved. There is absolutely no text explanation for you, which is why salaries and material costs for the work of the state authorities are fulfilled according to plan 19.5 - 19.5 billion, and why public services, and what public services are, in this case, social activity, planned 25 billion, and implemented 20 billion. And that's all in a situation where the budget is and there are congratulations, filled 100%. If it goes a little further, there's already a lot of talk here about the traffic programme, and before that, I have to say, since friends and friends from the Republic Public Revenue Administration have been having a lot of fun with the controls, and you seem to have rewarded them well. The plan was for salaries and material costs of RUJP somewhere around 1,350,000 why you gave them 600 million more, and you know it. Indeed, the question remains, which is why RUJP is in a situation where education, culture, science, gives 5 billion less, deserves to get 600 million, or maybe they were so phenomenal, signing criminal charges and where they should and where they shouldn't, that they deserve such high wages. A better analysis of the right-wing work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia could not have been since the 2001 final budget account. It can be seen that education funds total less than 4 billion. Why education funds, which is the side of two ministers, total funding for education is planned for 22 billion and 18 billion are realised. Which is why when the budget is charged 100% for 4 billion is spent less and the big question remains, if employees in RUJP deserve a reward of 600 million or almost 20% more paid. Student and student standards, credits, talents, scholarships, and 550 million are planned for that, 218 million were paid. So, twice as much as the plan in the situation where the budget is charged with one good financial discipline, you've introduced it and there you should be commended, so why and why it's less than the plan. In accordance with Article 65 of The law on the budgetary system, which you have proposed, and this assembly adopted, paragraph 6, you were either a duty or a resolution minister to explain the important differences between planned and achieved. The same thing is when resources are for science and technology and development. 1,650,000 were planned and 1,151,000,000 were realised. Which is why 500 million less, which is why 30% less than the science payout plan, when the budget is filled 100%. So it's clear that you're affirming the National Socialists here because you're talking about how the right-wing government works. The 2000 budget, which passed the agenda, regardless of how full it is, has met 100% of its obligations according to education and science and culture. A really open question remains, and it must be said here again, although fellow MPs have said that before, at the same time 7,5 billion were planned for the traffic programme, and 9.7 billion were realised.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24787	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24788	I have 20 minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24789	Do you want another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24790	Thank you very much. We're teachers set up at 45, no problem. Which person was in a position to decide to spend two billion and five hundred million more or somewhere around 25% more than the plan, such money beyond the will of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In general, Mr. Djelic, your arrival as finance and economy minister adds something that has not happened in previous governments. The budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with all divisions and positions and serves as the MPs agree on spending per item. There's a nonsens going on with you. In a situation where you have ministries that have maybe 200 or 300 million dinars in general, and here is Mr. Shumarac and his ministry 200 million dinars right to spend all year. You're still breaking that consumption into a dozen positions. You've been forecasting in the budget, and now for 2003, it's also worth 7.5 billion in one single item. You know, it just seems like playing with the Assembly. The assembly is there to discuss the construction ministry and ten positions and only 200 million in total, and someone gets the right, as Minister Veselinov in your 2003 budget, to spend 7.5 billion. Then I wonder, what is this congregation for? Why will ten items at the position of the Ministry of Construction, which is a total of 200 million, when once you, Minister Veselin, give us the right to spend 7.5 billion, or you, Mr Djelic, as Minister of Economy and Finance in the position of the social programmes for 2001 to spend 3 billion. You spent only 450 million. In a situation where you've met your bill plan and shown that you're a good minister, when it comes to pushing money into the budget register, you decide to spend 450 million dollars for social programs instead of 3 billion dinars. The issue remains open, is it possible for the Serbian Parliament to be in a position to give you the authority to spend on social programmes of 3 billion, and you spend 450 million. You really have to give one very important reason for this speaker, which is why you're in a situation where the budget is filled 100% instead of 3 billion for social programs, in a country where social programs are needed through, because restructuring is an economy, because transition is because we have a senseless privatisation. Many people are out of work, we need retraining to give people a chance to support themselves, they and their families, you spend 450 million. So six times less. Believe me, I'd rather you had spent 5 billion in that position than you were in another position, for example. Construction of a traffic station spent 2.5 billion more. At the same time, you as a minister decide that the Bank Restructuring Fund, where the 600 million was planned, goes a billion and eight hundred million. And if these banks were at least honest banks, if they weren't green banks, so that you were pumping up a billion and 200 million in banks, allowing these banks to become potent and give cheap loans, I might understand that it's some kind of social programme, because it's going to be banks that start the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises. We find that one development fund approves loans, and people can't get guarantees from banks afterwards, and many credits at the Development Fund are failing, because they won't give the banks guarantees. I know you as a minister have terrible problems with Governor Dinkic, although you feel the same way politically. By withdrawing money from this country and declaring $2 billion in foreign exchange reserves, he opened up a chance for greeners to take monthly interest from 3% to 7%. Yes, where they're not, say so. Three percent, and I'm telling you that they have banks that go up to 75% of the interest each year at a time when the rate of the euro and the dinar is fixed. It's good for you, because it makes it a little easier for the government, and the burden and a stalemate in the economy throws on the governor with full rights. So, simply, here we felt the consequence of a poor approach to budget formation, because the Serbian Parliament makes 250 MPs who need you, the government, to approve the spending of the planned inflow. You're putting us in a position to have one ministry with 100 employees spend 200 million, to break it to us in 10 items and let us approve it. Even some items are 50,000, and then the position of 7.5 billion appears, decided by one man. By what criteria? Here, social programs and what criteria someone has decided, i.e. you as minister, to spend money on these social programs. What are these criteria? Who adopted them? What are the priorities? It's not good for you to have a position that way. I think the Law on the Budgetary System is precisely because of Article 65, which binds you, by legal form, and maybe that's why you're changing it, in some way defines that you're more precise about spending your resources, because you're somehow allowing yourself in a way that you're actually carrying a great responsibility. Another piece of evidence, student loans, talents and scholarships, a special account of higher university education, envisioned by 250 million, and spent only 39 million. Why is it spent five times less on student loans and the standard when the budget is charged 100%. Who decided to deny 75% of the money for that purpose of student credits with talents and scholarships and to throw somewhere else. It is a great responsibility and it needs to be discussed further. In the end, one position that is really very serious is the means to house and feed the refugees and exiled faces. We are now in a position that those who have caused problems in the territory of the former Yugoslavia are withdrawing their humanitarian organisations, suspending support for refugees, refugees and exiled persons. We now have to take it upon ourselves. It must not happen that 881 million are planned and only 578 million are spent. At least that position must be fulfilled. All in all, it is obvious that the Law on the Budgetary System, when it comes to the final account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, is not respected, is neither a member of 65 nor a transitional provision in Article 80. It should simply be noted that this final account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not go beyond control, especially under the Budgetary System Law. As far as the content itself is concerned, it shows how one right-wing government works, because in a situation where a 100% payment is realised, essentially, committed, and significantly, four five times less paid out of those positions that fall within the social programme's positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24791	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? You used your right. We can make a compromise like this, if you will, since you've been using for four minutes for another six minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24792	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, if we put aside everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been saying about the draft budget bill for 2001, because it is nothing covered by praises and when it is immersed in the text of this bill, what is written with opinions and figures, and it is realized that there are also things that do not stand in the final account of the budget, and should, then it is certain that the next position, or estimates, can be expressed. The final budget account for 2001, which is usually very modest, which has not been reviewed, shows that the current government of the Republic of Serbia has two persons. One for the public, the marketing and the other for the real in practice. This government tells one story, sets principles, advocates certain values, gives us simultaneous lectures on morality, the need to respect the law, and, of course, mentions who has not done everything in a legally established way, mentioning the Socialists, while at the same time in practice being extremely volunteering, giving primates to politics and parties in relation to the needs of the whole society, unintended and unlawfully spending on taxpayers' funds at the same time as imposing new and bigger taxes on ordinary citizens, and reducing tax obligations for the rich. Such a government shows that it is neither expert nor consistent nor qualified for what it does and that this bill does not deserve a transitional assessment. I will support these claims with the following examples. We'll mention the example for the current budget reserve and the fact that they're almost 22% higher, 22% higher than the plan. So, let's say, twice, money has been allocated to finance Serbia's Radio-Television with an explanation for the extremely difficult financial situation since the cancellation of the electricity tax. Who canceled the electricity bill? This Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who brought Serbia's Radio-Television to a difficult economic situation? The government of the Republic of Serbia and now pouring crocodile tears, the government appears as the savior of the same television, a logical order of moves is also known. The one who pays also determines the structure of the programme and now rather than the Serbian Radio-Television as a citizen service, it turns into a service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we look at everything that appears on radio-television programmes, it is simply not possible for ministers to get word, however, by some representative of NGOs. The opposition isn't there, possibly if someone shows up just to possibly embellish the picture of objective television. Another example, the funds of the current budget reserve have been allocated for the purposes of the SRJ and Republika Srpska Coordination Centre for three municipalities, and in addition, the funds from the budget reserve have been allocated, another 150 billion for the Coordination Centre. One logical question arises, it is not a question of segregation, but it is a question of what these funds have been spent on. Is it possible that in these two years we in the Serbian Parliament have not received a single report on what the funds are being spent on? Would it not be logical for this to be a report to be sent to the congregation, not for individual MPs to explain to us what these funds are being spent on? Third example, direct influence of DOS policy and interest, of course. 15 million dinars were given on behalf of the refund of money to newspapers. This is where the government behaves both as a prosecutor and as a judge and as a Santa Claus. Of course, gifts also buy media favors, so it is not surprising that all media at the same time publish texts that need to affirm programs, politics and work of the government, that is, to speak negatively about others. The question arises why in the structure of the 2001 budget, there is not a single word about yesterday's case, about a billion and 500 dinars of money, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has forgiven the bakers. That bread was sold, one of which took profits. Is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia gave 50 million marks to bakers, based on only one protocol concluded by Group G-17 and bakers. Why the final account does not contain data on the extra-income tax and the extra-indemnity spent for certain purposes. How much of the tax on sales of services is paid in the budget by the PDO, which is a payment service obligor, who paid for the payment turnover and paid for it. It is estimated that the National Bank of Yugoslavia is the so-called National Bank of Yugoslavia. The PDO on payment services had a base of 14 billion dinars and was therefore not paid 2.8 billion dinars. How much of the budget came from interest on deposits of budget money in 2001 and where the money was deposited, and they had to be deposited somewhere. It claims here that the previous government damaged the budget because it did not charge interest, where about 100 billion dinars were deposited. At the very end, given the limited time, I'd like to say something. My fellow MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia have documented that there has been unintended spending of funds. They've also proven, and that's what the Ministry's report said, that there were cases and illegal spending of funds. In what extent, we'll see when the new government takes over the job, so when the new budget inspection takes account of what's been done. In any case, this report is also bad for the SPS parliamentary group inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24793	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in detail. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill, I ask whether the proposing, finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, wants to give the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24794	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like very briefly to answer a few questions that came out of this discussion. The first thing I'm saying is that today the government is putting accounts before you, as it should be. Also, no matter how difficult the words and some inaccuracies in what was said for this speaker, I cannot help but think that today was a very good day for this parliament, for Serbia's public finances. It seems to me that at every step we establish what needs to be that minimum standard of discussion, what needs to be the information that needs to be delivered to this home by the executive authority. Believe me, and the next final accounts will be so much better. I'd just like to answer a few key questions that came out of this discussion. The first thing I'd like to say is that this final account, of course, and not a lot of things in our country, is not yet on that world level or at least at some level where we could all say it's a single document that we can all be proud of, including me. However, we cannot forget that the final account in recent years has been a mere formality. It was a law that was passed without discussion, very often, even in one year -- nineteen years, it was first one regulation that was subsequently covered by the law. If you look at the discussion that exists in the Federal Parliament, the final accounts of the federal state or some institutions within it, such as the National Bank of Yugoslavia, are adopted today, without much discussion. I think this discussion we had today is a very good, positive step. I accept him as such, and I just want to add a few precision here. First of all, I note, since there has been a lot of discussion about this being the first budget, if we look at the essence of the thing that was done in what was planned. Not entirely, because, as you know, you voted the budget only at the end of March, so he didn't cover the first quarter of this year and the entire budget was supposed to fit something that happened before him. However, we find, as many have noticed for this speaker, that this is the first time in 12 years that, without introducing new taxes or increasing rates, the revenue side has been carried out as planned. What's that supposed to mean? Inflation that was projected at 30% was established at 40.6%, so in real terms budget revenues were up by 6%. For what? Because, thanks to budget reform, so-called. grossing the budget, cutting special accounts, it was all in one place. That fiscal reform you voted at the end of March allowed us to have a much more efficient tax system with a much smaller number of tax forms, more generous, easier to control and collect. Thanks to that, not higher rates, we've come to this result. Of course, there's one quick fight against smuggling, one almost entirely successful, and that's against smuggling oil derivatives and one that's a daily fight, and that's a fight against cigarette smuggling, where the participation of illegal cigarettes is significantly reduced. These are facts in terms of how much it's collected on customs. Let's remember, in 2001, legally imported cigarettes, that amount is twice as high as the sum of five years that preceded 2001. Here's one ecultant proof that significant progress has been made in that domain. So much for the revenue side. All fiscal forms: sales tax, income tax, or excise tax, have shown that progress. If we look at what happened afterwards at the level of funds that were intended to cover the deficit, simply, there and privatisation and those loans by international financial institutions and in part donations, or were later or not made in the amount that was planned. For this reason, for the first time in 12 years, the execution of expenditure was in that and only in that scope, without printing money. That's why, as you can see, not only in the nominal amount of a billion -- two, this budget and realistically on the bulky side, because of inflation that was slightly larger than planned, made for a few percent below what was planned. It's one responsible budget. It's a public finance management that's a pain in the ass. After that, daily discussions are between priorities, what is outlined, but in any case, not giving up on the cardinal principle that whoever is in the government from now on, must manage the management of our public finances, which is that no problems are covered by the creation of quasi-fiscal deficits in stock reserves, the issue of a falsification of the EPS bonds or bonds for children's allowances, only to cover up one deficit or to make Topcider work. Everything, as it were then said, was getting past the iron. There's a lot of rich terminology in the way it was done through printing money. That's not what happened. Thanks to this, Serbia had one very good base for 2002 and ended a year with one budget deficit that was one of the smallest in Europe that year. This is not some huge achievement in the sense that our country needs one budget deficit in the period, approximately 3-4% at this point. This is what is sustainable and that is what is necessary for our public finances. It was less in 2001 only because some of the funds that were planned were lagging behind. Instead of printing the money, we just did the given and necessary compression on the dispensary side. This explains why some expenditures are less accomplished than what was intended. We set out on that financial leper towards priorities, and they were, unlike what was said a little earlier, not in some form of privileged groups, but in law and social needs. Priority-- pensions. That's why, as you can see, the pension position has been done more than budgeted. Also, what was necessary under legal belongings. This budget, for the first time in 12 years, has paid 12 salaries, 12 pensions, bought wheat, without printing money, without breaking deadlines, without devaluation, was able to lend the necessary resources to EPS to remont, for the first time in 12 years, without the Topcider working for it. Thus, and that is the essence of this budget, this is one responsible budget that has been implemented within which it has been overlooked. If we look, these were a number of questions that MPs asked, if we take the DSS parliamentary group, it is quickly forgotten that the DSS was also a member of this government in 2001, until August of the month. If we look at the questions, they ask themselves, at least two-thirds, these questions. From January to August, we were solid members of that government and worked together on that budget. It's hard to accept, in a way, the questions raised, as if that were their concern, as if they weren't in that government, as if they hadn't shared that heavy responsibility to lead the country with us and until August of that year. Of course, all the issues of these parliamentary groups and other parliamentary groups stand, in line with the new issues raised this day, especially in the areas of economy and privatisation, traffic and telecommunications, urbanism and buildings and agrarians. The competent ministries will provide further information, as requested today, for additional tables. There are no questions we will not answer, because it is simply not just our duty, not just our duty, but our honor to answer the questions raised by this esteemed home. And, competent ministers, as soon as tomorrow, will answer all these questions personally and what has been spent on their division. Serbia's budget, this government, must not and do not have any secrets and have and will never have any outstanding questions, to what this House will ask as a question for them. In addition, I would like to answer a few specific questions, because my colleagues will answer the questions concerning their resolutions in person tomorrow. I just want to say, if we look at the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, I was surprised that whoever asked the question, which is a significant acquaintance of our state administration, that he forgot that this administration was not part of the Ministry of Finance, nor will it be until 31 December at midnight this year, because that is the moment when the law you voted last week will enter into force on Tuesday. She's a government-level organ for now. Of course, if we look at what's been going on here, so look at the revenue side, we can also give thanks to a difficult trade. It's the first time, and it's really contributed to these tax revenues being there, at the level we expected, as much as 5% more than what was planned in real terms. And of course there are no stories about some secret groups, and of course the people who were hired here, that they worked as advisers, and of course they helped to build such an efficient and modern law there too, and of course, when that law was passed by this home, their role is no longer necessary. Of course everything has to be within the organization and administration, and of course everything has to be legal. I would also like to add, since there were questions about this -- why 50 pages, not 278, look at the final bill for 2000, and you will see that a good part of that final account, concerning the various divisions, reminded both the home and the MPs that these laws are implemented by various ministries. We have few traditions in public finances and many of them need to be strengthened. But there's one, and that's that in the first final account in the new National Assembly, there's quite a lot to describe which laws are being implemented in that part, and I think it would be unnecessary for them to repeat themselves in this final account, even less considering that, as we see calendarly, they're discussing each other. Of course, I also want to say that, if we look at other divisions, several times the committees of this house have asked for information and all the questions of the departments have answered. That's how we'll work in the future. Therefore, it seems to me that there are no questions in the sense that no one wants to answer or that something is hiding. No, the government of the Republic of Serbia, no resort, hides any of this at home. Every one of your questions on the board of directors, or at this session, or at some later session, we will answer. If we look at this final account, it has two important innovations -- the first thing we do is pass any legal obligations, and there are few who have confessed and praised it, this government has classified a budget inspection report. We find that there is an ugly habit, which is that at the end of the year, according to the law that existed and applied, there is nothing illegal about it, before the Budgetary System Act, was possible by the Government to redistribute funds. But that's not good and we didn't think it was good. That is why the Budgetary System Act is proposed and therefore there is a next item of the agenda of this session, because such redistribution by the Government is no longer possible under the law. Finally, this will be the first final account and the first budget where this home will be able, in accordance with Article 80 of the Transitional Provisions of the Budgetary System Act, to get an external assessment of what was done. And finally, when you vote for this bill, there will be no end to the story of the 2001 budget or the final bill for that year. For the first time in the history of public finances in Serbia, you will have an independent auditor's report, which will deliver a report to you, not to the government. I want to conclude here that this final account is looking at one budget where 16% of the income has not been forgotten, because all gross incomes are here. No more special accounts. This budget and this final bill around that budget don't show any hidden dues, because everything that's financed from government money is in one place. There are no quasi-fiscal deficits piled up in public enterprises, in stock reserves, or through some politically motivated loans from the NBJ, or business banks. It's all in the palm of your hand to take a look. This law on the final account shows one picture, for the first time in 12 years, a picture of a budget that has not failed those who expected something from him, or pensioners, or peasants, or all those who have and receive social benefits, for the first time. Also, this final account shows one responsible budget, where there is no printing of money, and that temptation is always present, but we will never succumb to it. And one more thing, I also want to say that this will be the first final account, where we have submitted a report of the budgetary inspection. It will strengthen her independence, and not just that. Until an external audit of our public finances is established, you have the possibility, in accordance with Article 80, to obtain an executive independent auditor. For the following year (that one speaker was wrong) this law does not apply this year to members 64 and 65. But already for the 2002 budget, work on the final account for this year has already started on December 1st. Look at these members and you'll see that according to them, legally defined, we have very specific things to follow the final bill. There won't be just a cash execution, there'll be a guarantee, there'll be a much more precise debt table. We see this final account as an important moment in the progress of the transparency of our public finances, which will be followed by even better steps. For all these reasons, and because this day is the first time, in this government conference, for the first budget we've ever made, we're putting accounts before you. I thank you for this discussion and I urge you to vote in favour of this final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24795	I thank the proposal's representative, the finance minister, Mr. Djelic, and I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Velimir Simonović; Dragan Pavlovic; together Ljubomir Mucic, Radojjko Petrić, Nebojsa Jović and Marko Culibrk; together Živanko Radovančev, Miomir Ilic, Hranislav Perić and Golub Rajić and together Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Zivko Radovančev and Joca Arsic. The amendments that will be submitted until the start of the search for the bill will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that the time for debate is 5 hours and that it is allocated to a relatively large number of MPs and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a statement. There is a word from MP Srda Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24796	In accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that tonight we extend the work until the end of this item of the agenda and ask for a quorum to be established, since there appears to be some cards from these disc guards, so that we can decide on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24797	I'm asking the Service to pick up the cards that were left in the MPs' units. Ladies and gentlemen, please determine if we have a quorum to decide on. I realize we have a quorum to work with, but we don't have a quorum to decide. Therefore, we will continue to work until 18 hours and will not put the motion to a vote. We're going back to work. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposalor's representative, finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24798	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a brief explanation of the draft amending and supplementing the 2002 Budget Law. It is indicative, first of all, that this proposal is before you today. He is the direct result of your vote of this law, the Budgetary System Act, which requires the Executive Authority, that every time there is an even more serious redistribution in the state register, be it within the existing framework, come before this house and demand a vote and your consent that such redistribution may be carried out. This, as we can see, we have yet another step towards greater control of the legislative authority over the executive power in the domain of public finances, and that is good. What I'd like to say the same thing is that, if we look at the essence of this proposed rebalancing, unfortunately, this year we're going to have one inflation, and that's the good news, which is going to be a percentage lower than what we predicted, 16% instead of 20%, and also the real growth of our economy is going to be exactly as much as predicted, 4% of the real growth of social production. If we look at the revenue side, we predict that we will have 700 to 800 million dinars less in the register, than what is provided for in the nominal amount, which means that in real terms there are going to be a percentage more income than what is foreseen. Also, if we look at funding and covering the budget deficit, we see that we have the same framework, although I would say, if we go into the very composition of that coverage, we have slightly different items, but the projected deficit of 39.8 billion will be made with 40.7 billion, and that is 2% of the derogations, where we will have a little less credit than international financial institutions, as well as last year, I would say, the first tranche of a World Bank loan, will be with us and our budget, two to three months later than is anticipated, rather than due to, I would say, a long term of negotiations on the constitutional charter and issues at which level the necessary laws that go with that support, should be voted. Also, if we look at donations and privatisation revenues, they will be at the planned level, so that the difference in borrowing with international financial organisations and with the World Bank will be replaced by borrowing in our domestic financial system. So, both the revenues and the resources to cover the deficits are within the envisaged framework, and these expenditures that we propose to finance from the budget for this year are identical, as well as at the time when we had the vote of this budget, 27 December, if I remember well, last year, and the rebalancing that took place in June this year, due to the changes that led to the vote of the Omnibus Law and the transfer of certain responsibilities to the AP Vojvodina. Now, the revenues are about the same, the deficit is going to be the same, the expenditures are going to be the same, so we can ask ourselves what the proposal for this rebalance is? The proposal for this rebalancing is in front of you because we have a number of items that we have to carry out in terms of something greater than what is planned. I'd like to show you what the items are and why we suggest that they be voted on, as long as they are in this session. The items we propose to be bigger are, and the largest subsidy for the PIO Fund is pensions, and why 4 billion more than is foreseen? I want to say right away that it's not some extra pension expenditure in terms of an increase not provided for by the Pensions Act, of course, but that rebalancing is necessary to be able to legally pay off our pensions for December, simply, according to what was predicted in December last year, there's a slightly larger number of pensioners than we're supposed to be, that's under one. Two, given that the salaries grew slightly faster than what was planned this year, and that half-breed pensions tied to the growth of those salaries, and the pensions themselves were somewhat faster, finally, by the Federal Constitutional Court decision, we had to pay for the difference he set than about 1.5 billion dinars in exchange for the first half of this year and hence 4 billion. The second item that is proposed here is the item for the Public Enterprise of ZTP, which is 1.5 billion dinars, and that is because simply, unfortunately, still this year, this public enterprise does not collect enough of its own revenue to be able to settle their salary fund, let alone meet the needs for some repairs and normal functioning of our railway. That's why this amount is necessary, so that we can ensure the normal functioning of our railroad. Three hundred million dinars for the EPS, clearly, for the remonts, that money doesn't go to the EPS, but goes directly to those suppliers so we can also end this remont season, which this year, in 2002, was even better than last year, this was the best year for remonts in the last 15 years. We also have the need to increase the item for fighting and disability protection by 500 million dinars, and 600 million dinars for the Transition Fund, given that a large number of enterprises want to enter the restructuring programme. There is an agreement between the union of managing personnel of local self-government and they are asking the government of the Republic of Serbia and this budget to help them enter the process. These are the most important items that are increasing, and there's one item that's coming down to a large extent, so at this point you can see what the current budget reserve is spent on, and you'll see that the biggest item there is RTS because the vote of the Broadcasting Act, came much later than what was originally envisaged and because of that, and that was the only way for its funding to continue normal functioning and that was from all reserves. And this time we see that RTS is going to cost 2.6 billion dinars from the budget register. On the other hand, of course, if the leper is the same and if it is necessary because of pensions, socials, normal functioning of certain public enterprises, to increase some items, it is also necessary to reduce some items in the same amount, some, how can I say and it was not difficult to reduce. One is the payment of foreign interest for 1.8 billion dinars. That's because bilateral negotiations with the Paris club, they're technical negotiations, they've lasted a few weeks and a few months longer, so this year we'll pay less for these interest rates as much as planned. Also, given that negotiations with the London Club did not advance the rhythm that was planned, some of the funds provided for in that item for the possible start of repayment of the debt, following its significant reduction, will not be completed. You also have a current budget reserve, which is already somewhat more accounting than essential, and it is reduced by showing what it was used for this year, primarily for RTS. Finally, what was more difficult, but which will be very well received both in this home and by our countrymen, is what the state will spend less on itself, in the amount of 1.4 billion dinars, for the use of services and goods. These are travel costs, contract services, special services and materials, bodies and governments, the state, will spend less on itself. Also, we'll have a smaller item for 900 million dinars for basic assets, which are buildings and construction works, maintaining what the government's immovable assets are. We also have a downsizing of the principal's payment. It's also some loans we don't have to return to the rhythm that was planned, then the acquisition of financial assets, given that there's still no passed law on a guarantee fund for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope you will pass this law quickly, and there is no law on guaranteeing housing loans. I hope you'll vote him too soon. It's just that it's secured in the 2003 budget, but we won't be able to launch those institutions until you pass those laws. In the end, we come up with some of the hard stuff, which is that we're going to be able to spend a little bit less on roads, about 1.5 billion less on roads, which is not easy, but we simply had to fit the costs according to what our reality is, which is that we can spend this year exactly as it was intended. This budget rebalance may be of a technical nature in the sense that it does not require greater consumption, nor reduces it, but it is of paramount importance, because without it and its vote under the law, we would not be able to pay our pensions in December, to pay for the social benefits provided, or to ensure the smooth functioning of very important public enterprises. For that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to vote this law on amendments and additions to the 2002 Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24799	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24800	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we've been waiting for something to happen a second time. So far it's always been -- this is the first time; this is historic, and this is the second time, this is the second budget rebalance for 2002. Before I explain the rebalancing, i.e. I would ask the Minister to answer me because I did not understand on the Finance Committee where I imported from and what is the name of the head of the Republic budget vault. They asked me, for the record, no one knew how to say his name or where he came from. (Minister - from Sainta. ) Interesting but true, according to old practice, well established, and this other rebalancing i.e. amending and supplementing the budget for the current year are proposed to this House by emergency procedure. So it was done with the basic law in December of last year, then with changes in June of the month, and here are changes in mid-December of this year. It raises a very important question -- why this year's second rebalancing is being carried out at the meetings of this Parliament, and for the past year, the official rebalancing of the meetings of the Assembly has not been carried out, but, as we said, in considering the final budget account for 2001, through the transformation and redistribution of funds under the current budget reserve, the government of the Republic of Serbia at a session since 22 February 2002 agreed on a budget plan with the expenditures of 31.12.2001. In 2001, it was much easier because the current revenues achieved were 16.2% higher than planned, so the planned budget deficit, which amounted to 22 billion, was covered by regular budget cuts. Well, it's a little harder this year. Because current revenues are around the border planned at the beginning of this year, and the planned deficit is mainly ironed from privatisation revenues and domestic loans. For these reasons, the government has transferred the burden of redistributing budget resources within the total volume of budget expenditures to this parliament, which will likely eliminate the budget expenditures already implemented, failing to assess their implementation and reality. These changes and budget additions do not increase total expenditure, as there are no more sources to be implemented and financed from. "It has come to a head," our people say, Mr. Minister, because the budget has been increased seven times since 2000 and is 217.4 billion dinars. What is the perspective of our economy if the growth of the GDP of the social product and its size and size are based on the service sector of the economy, on social activities, on banking, on the service sector of the economy, on social activities, on banking, where four of the largest domestic banks, trade in imported goods, have been shut down, given that the largest part of the goods of the wide-ranging imports are entering the final consumption. Our economy is not based on this budget on industrial production and agriculture. Maybe that's why you're cutting off the agrarian budget. You did not mention this in the introductory notes - that the appropriations of the agricultural budget per rebalancing for 2002 are reduced by two billion compared to the funds provided for in the budget plan adopted at the end of December 2001. You direct these funds to RTS, that the new RTS announces that you have invested in the social product in the same way as incentives in agricultural production or television, and I can say that you have led to the biggest problems in its financing. The most significant is cutting investment investments in the economy, agriculture and road economy, where the budget is reduced, i.e. planned expenditures by about 3.5 billion, 2 billion for the agricultural budget and 1.5 for the travel economy and travel infrastructure. This must be some new theory of creating suitable conditions for the growth of investment, production and employment. Mr. Minister, according to some data published these days, the number of employees this year has been reduced by about 100,000, or the number of unemployed has increased by the same amount. A new blow to the budget and social security funds right now is why it's the biggest. It's a good thing you realized that the beneficiaries of the budget in their business aren't gold coke and that they don't have some big income of their own, so in the rebalancing of the expenditure, that part of the funds is reduced from 13.8 to 3.3 billion dinars. No conditions are created for investment, production and employment growth, an increased transfer for the Republic Fund for PIO, which has already reached about 49 billion dinars or 1/3 of the total funds needed to pay out pensions. You owe the answer I set at the previous point, why isn't the PIO Fund currently missing and unable to achieve the planned amount of funds? How much is the reduction in the contribution based on the reduction of employees, and you yourself wrote on page 7 of the reasoning, as the second reason for the reduction in income tax based on a smaller number of registered employees, based on data for the first nine months of statistics. The budget is full of consumption, while still there is, because the share of sales tax and excise tax is 110 billion or 59%, and that is why there is no tax and income tax. This consumption is not from domestic production but from the consumption of large-scale imports which currently draws the last reserves that the population has. What to say for 4 billion to restructure banks, when it is known that these are severance funds for several thousand employees who have lost their jobs due to the liquidation of the four largest domestic banks. What do you mean by position 371,463 transfers to other levels of government in the division of the Ministry of Economic Relations to which the amount of zero dinar is replaced by 2 billion. What levels of government and in which countries is financed by the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs? What is the source and what is the purpose of these funds? Is there still such a position in the budget? We might find the answer in the budget spending report for January-November, which the government adopted and served as the basis for the budget's rebalancing. That's the report I asked Mr. Minister for at the board meeting, I didn't win. It might be easier for us at this point on the basis of that report, if I didn't endure these huge amendments, because most of the 2002 budgets with today's day are spent and there's not one way, to the final account, and not even by the final account, the figure will be able to change. This is how you lost the basic concept that you had and set the goal of this government when you proposed the 2002 budget in December of last year, from the concept, and someone will light up, until someone else gets lighted up, so will we. So, the basic concept is based on the principle of budget and macroeconomic policy facing development. This budget represents the government's social policy, given that the standard of our population at this point is the most endangered and that the increase in the average personal incomes that you force to show a improvement in standards, it's just a rough trick for increased pay-based expenditure...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24801	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24802	... I don't want to use it, thank you, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24803	Are any of the representatives of the parliamentary group applying for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24804	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would just like to draw attention to the direction of economic policy drawn by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it explained the 2002 budget. These economic policy routes were envisaged as follows. First and foremost, production growth, growth in economic development, higher employment rates, improvement of the material position of public sector employees, improvement of student and student standards, fight against the gray economy, faster privatisation, planned effects of the Extraprofit Act, donations and everything else in the plan. Today we are in front of another budget regulation for this year. It can be determined as follows. Obviously, the effects and objectives of the policy set out in this proposal by the Government are neither good nor are they taken the right parameters, nor are these objectives realised. I just want to talk about some indicators. The growth of gross social product as expected has not been achieved. The same are the relations between imports and exports. Today we heard that Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce said that exports to nine months were 2 billion, imports of $2 billion and some dollars, $2 billion and $200, and the total exports of the Serbian economy were at $450 million. This huge difference and growth and the difference in favour of imports, relative to growth, warns several important facts. So no effects were achieved in the banking system policy. Secondly, there were no full effects in the tax policy, because there is no incentive to export. There are no serious guarantees or the Serbian economy is under collapse. What's a fact, it's that the situation in the Serbian economy is quite difficult. We can only do this from one piece of information on the side, and it talks about the next, the withdrawal of electricity in favour of Serbia's economy is 38% lower than the previous year. So it stays for the population. Therefore, this is probably an additional contribution by not working, and it will have enough electricity in the winter to heat the population, regardless of whether they have been carried out in the field of energy, the number of reconstructions and capacity building. As far as construction is concerned, 15% growth is projected. The data for Belgrade is that 923 apartments were built in Belgrade this year. This is as a warning, because obviously the rate that was planned, 0.5% does not show the real effects that are necessary to create the right economic criteria, which are necessary for the growth of housing. It is evident that construction workers in the area are very dissatisfied, nor did a real element appear in banking policy for the lending of housing. The economy has no means for such a thing, so there should be some other criteria needed for next year. It is obvious that in this way, the effects needed by all will not be well realized. Furthermore, the price rise of services and all others, retail prices and in the field of services is higher than the growth of earnings, higher than the growth of earnings, and you simply can't have that level now and there is still a decline in population standards. So this is a short-term effect, and we think that when you explain the government's policy proposal for next year, that this is not worth throwing at me, these are harsh facts, and these answers on the other hand don't exist. There is a change in the government's economic policy for next year that must be suited to citizens, and citizens sent a message Sunday to everyone. 56% of citizens said that the political scene in Serbia is not good and that we must all think about what is important for the future. We're doing it in 2003. It's going to be a plan for next year. These are key parameters to be taken care of. To remind you, the difference between imports and exports must be reduced. Serbia's economy has to export more. Stimulating criteria must be created. We have enough businesses to export, we just need not to suffer from any ideologies, but to go to markets that are ready to receive our goods, the way they are, and the Serbian economy has something to offer on certain markets, where it has traditionally been in all these years. Furthermore, every effort must be made to ensure that the banking system, which apparently showed no effects that are important, and they are important in the areas of housing, in the area of crediting the economy. It's just that these days at the Development Agency, credits are granted when banks don't give guarantees. All 2% of the credit granted was a guarantee in banks. So there's just one huge instability in that area, and that's where you really need to take care of it. I think the government's economic policy needs to take a lot of care of it next year. The area of employment almost seems to me not to stagnate, but to fall and have to find space, if it is small and medium-sized enterprises, if it is a new capacity. Let's not declare that Mercator is the biggest investment in Serbia's economy this year. Let's not be ridiculous ourselves. You know what big investments are. They may be in the area of infrastructure or in the production of new capacities. According to the criteria established there, 40% of the Serbian economy will be able to sell there, 40% of the Slovenian and 20% remain. We had a chance to look at what it looked like. According to our assessment at this time between 15% and 20% of all businesses, the Serbian economy is located and has the opportunity to sell its goods there and there is another imbalance that needs to be corrected. I don't know what the relationship is with the exchange. We are probably good at exchanging only with the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia, for the rest of us I don't know, but obviously if we want to join the European Union, if we want to co-operate with the world, if we want to live well, then don't market in Europe, start living as Europeans. Let's make sure we do a good job of hosting our own home and not falsifying economic policy. This shows that economic policy twice this year, the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia has twice been tested twice this year. We want that budget for next year to make full sense, because it will be of interest to the citizens. If that's not the case, make sure the government crisis is even deeper and Parliament doesn't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24805	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, five minutes of limited time for discussion. The next to be reported is MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24806	So, about what's called popular rebalancing, even though it's not a legal term, I just have a few things to say. I'm not making a question of when the rebalancing in a small institution, whose budget does not normally exceed 15 million dinars, the annual budget, and it can somehow be settled, although it has been reduced by 30% in this rebalancing process, but when I saw that for science, technology and development, the budget has been reduced by around 280 million dinars, I have to admit that it's very embarrassing, but I'm going to say a word more about it when the 2003 budget debate is over. Now what I want to mention is, that's page 2 and then some positions, let's say, under the regular number of 17 donations to international organisations a million and a half dinars. I'm very interested in what an international organization we've given donations to. Maybe it was useful, I don't know, but I'd like to hear about it, but I'm particularly interested in the 21st point of donation to NGOs, 440 million. I hope so, Mr. Djelic, and I would like to ask her as an MP to get a list that we NGOs are funding from the budget. I hope I don't find among them those few who have been expanding here for years fierce hatred against the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24807	The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. He's not there. The word of the Messenger of the people is Sredo (Mihail). The next is the messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, who is declared with the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24808	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, here today was about this, I will talk about the work concerning the Ministry of Agriculture, that the Ministry of Agriculture has budgeted, and it has made no account of how it spends money. I am prepared to remind my colleagues, those who have criticised, what it looked like in earlier years, and to say that, however, I must say this, objectively and honestly, this government has supported the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and that this Ministry of Agriculture is much better than the predecessors. You know that in the last 20 years, peasants have never known at what price they would sell, when sowings in the fall did not know how much wheat would be bought or never knew under which conditions it would be redeemed. You never gave a milk premium exactly in time. There have never been incentives and clear agricultural policies ahead in a year, but what this government has been doing. It's well known to all of us, but the facts are distorted, and I think these incentives and this, that I'm not keeping you at this time, but I quote that folk song -- it's not the grandmother who spent the treasure on the handles and on the buzzers, it's the grandmother who spent the treasure, and it's the one who spent the milk incentives, the tobacco incentives, the sugar tail. And I think we can accept this proposal about budget rebalancing, because the government worked domestically and should be ashamed. Mr. Nikolic, you know how it was in your time. Three pfenigs were bought, you never paid in time, you usurped everything. Now it's known in advance, exactly how much will be bought out, exactly what price it's worth. You've never even seen it, and now you've got to learn how to do it and how to boss it, because you've been a mess, one of the cheaters who lived on account of those peasants, and this time it's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24809	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24810	The predecessor wouldn't even deserve my answer because of the state he's in, but I just have to tell you that it's possible that the villagers didn't know what price to be bought at before, and now they know, so they're unhappy whenever they're told that price. At a time when we were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, little gentle birds singers, there were all over Serbia, at least they cheered the people. Since your president became Minister of Agriculture, there's been no bird in Vojvodina to be found. The Italians ate all the birds from Serbia thanks to the minister of agriculture. And in our time, an agrarian budget was introduced. Instead of now asking the finance minister why the implementation of the agrarian budget is less every year and why subsidies for agriculture and for this rebalancing are less than they were planned, you are going out to praise the minister who is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The minister, if this lady who is called a human rights fighter, as I have heard her advertised, now as the future president of Serbia, to God, to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the debate on the minister in this assembly would have been held seven or eight months ago when a request for his shift was filed. The easiest, ladies and gentlemen, you who are in the government, who are ministers, to tell Mrs. Micic, whenever the motion to vote for mistrust comes to some minister or government - put it aside, we will not call you for it. We'll call you one day for all that. These are the gravest injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Preserving as Minister of Agriculture of your Veselinov, it is an attack on the Serbian people. What Professor Simonovic said earlier about NGOs, I fully agree with it, but the agriculture minister is at least two basic criminals: by crime against the Serb village and crime against small stories that were killed during his rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24811	Mr. Nikolic, I give you my first warning. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24812	As the Minister of Agriculture's praises, his merits have surpassed the frameworks of the ministry's resolution. You should put it on "Milky" chocolates. (President: And you get back on the subject. National MP Nikolic had the right to speak about the Minister of Agriculture because he used the right to reply, and you signed up to discuss the budget. ) Just prepare to be the second Milan Milutinović and do your job. In fact, this draft budget rebalance, which the government has provided us, is in the usual conditions of a normal instrument that uses less - more than any government. What is unusual in this proposal is that the government is not proposing budget rebalances within the items that involve the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but the government is proposing that the funds from donations to international credits, international debt and privatisation funds be invested in the largest part of the pension fund. That, looking as a gesture, would be a welcome welcome, however, this clearly says that the government has been misleading the public in Serbia over the past period. Why did she deceive the public in Serbia? Because it provided incorrect data that the funds from the privatisation of international loans are invested in the recovery of the economy, that agricultural production is growing, that is, on the basis of this logic, they would not, if that were true, have the funds in the rebalancing that are intended to fill pension- invalidity insurance, that is, to pay regular pensions, but would now have a story in the budget's rebalancing of increasing employees' salaries. The government thus acknowledges that it has not provided permanent and stable sources of income over the past period. The government acknowledges that statistics are complete under its control and that the statistics aim to deceive the public. Gentlemen, you've admitted that you need to invest additional funds from privatisation, from international loans to ensure that pensions are paid by the end of the year. What you're gonna do next year, nobody knows. Then how can you plan this budget that you've provided us with, where over 60% of your social programme is represented? What are you going to finance this from, gentlemen? Secondly, the government acknowledges that it has clear intentions to nominate as many layoffs as possible, especially in those companies that are in the privatisation programme. How does he admit that? By seizing additional funds, according to the minister here, to reconcile social contributions to employees who have lost their jobs. When the Law on Privatisation was held in this assembly, then all ministers, who were tasked with defending and explaining the law, assured us there would be no additional layoffs. Now they admit, through this rebalancing, that literally huge resources are being invested to provide for those people who have lost their jobs. Will we ever hear from the public of Serbia, will they listen to the real reasons why these people are out of work? What the minister told us as a significant item in this rebalancing is that the funds that are released on behalf of prolonging the payment of commitments on the basis of international loans are accounted for. He says, among the ranks, that these are the merits of this government and members of the DOS expert group that already has a great deal of intention to turn into a party. Minister, you think someone believes you in this Serbia in those stories about London, about the Paris Club, about which clubs. No one in this Serbia trusts you anymore. You have to tell the truth. It is now extended to pay off loans for the simple reason that the Charter is due to be adopted, which is also the London and Paris Club waiting to cut Serbia apart, and will then set interest, based on the debt belonging to Serbia in the distribution of international obligations between Serbia and Montenegro. You're using this now to make more propaganda. You can wave your head all you want, but unfortunately, your former colleague, Mr. Labus, who's separated, has strayed from you and now I guess he's got a guilty conscience, too, so he announces what's true. You, Minister, see how the funds from the next privatisation will be invested for the recovery of the economy. In this way you will not, in this way you will spend one-off funds, and Serbia will remain ruined, and you will most likely, if not at the end of the year, early next or soon, leave such a Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-11-0.u24813	This would be the end of today's work.
