ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21474	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 150 MPs and I ask you to insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Miroslav Markicevic, Olgica Kircanski, Petar Misic, Momir Radoičić, Živanko Radovančević, Slobodan Pavlovic, Rajko Baralić, Živko Selaković, Branimirović, Pal Shandor, Neda Arnerić, Stanko Kovacevic, Bojan Kostreš, Zoran Bošković, Višnja Nežić, Branko Ružić, Jon Cisamaš and Predrag Stojanović. Milos Lucic and Bojan Pajtic announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on State Period and Cartaster and the Law on Immobilities The Word has a National MP, Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21475	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we worked effectively almost two hours yesterday. This suggests that the debate that was held at that time, and here it is already coming to an end, says that this bill is actually one of the proposals that are least discussed in this assembly. And only the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, which lasted about two or three minutes, shows that essentially the changes introduced in this law, which are said here to be reform, are actually cosmetic and relying on the 1992 law, with amendments in 1996. I absolutely agree with Mr. Secretary's statement that the situation in this area is catastrophic. The very fact that the latest public record was made in the period 1932-1936 suggests a difficult situation, but it was tried to repair this situation in 1992, when the former government and former government said that they would succeed in updating, completing, recording and making a real estate cadasar in 10 years. One state cannot be called or considered serious if it does not have an immovable cadast, unless there is a listed property available on its territory. In fact, this law does not change anything in this area, except that - it has been declared here, and that is also the scope of this law - the market balance between the Republic Geodetic Institute and private organisations is actually established by equality in the performance of certain professional affairs. That's the range of this law. What's the point in this area is that we get real information. When are we going to do the immovableity cadastre? I ask that question because it was contradictory information that came in and out. The prime minister, Mr Djindjic, said the job could be done in two or three years and would cost 40 million marks. Serious analyses (and I would like to hear here the most responsible people in this area) say that the resources that are needed are multiplely higher; a billion marks and a period of 14 years are mentioned; or, let's say, seven to 14 years. I can't just believe that such a slip can happen to the most responsible people in the country when we talk about one of these areas. So that's the answer we need to get from both the Minister and the Government themselves. And it's not a dispute - the state has no money, maybe this job can't be done in five, ten years, maybe we don't have that billion marks, but then we should say and say it fairly and from the point of view of the profession, and also because of the public, say how and when we can do that job. In the opening presentation of the minister, we received one extremely inaccurate information, which is very unspecific and non-specific for geodesy, because it is an exact science, which is that the commission that is formed, whose head is the prime minister, will be updated as soon as possible. That "as soon as" could mean a year and 15 years. Simply, such a formulation cannot be given in front of the government and the Ministry when we talk about this. Therefore, the intensity of the amendments to this law, as I said, is to establish a market equality between the Republic Geodetic Institute and the geodetic organisations, i.e. professional organisations doing this job. But neither in that domain nor in that part of the bill is consistent. We at the DSS have submitted several amendments, they outline that market equality, make it meaningful, because we can't have equality on the market in half, but we have it or we don't have it. And it is good that the Government and the Resolute Committee on Construction and Urbanism adopted certain amendments to the DSS, but yet there has been some inconsistencies, because as a causal and consequential link in some other points, when we talk about the supervision to be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, and in determining the methodology of work, there is no reason that anyone who deals with these areas professionally, not only in the field of professional affairs, but also in the field of determining the methodology of work, is also not equal and equal with the Republic Geodetic Office. I hope, when we discuss the amendments -- along with the positive thing that the DSS amendments are respected and accepted -- that we will also correct them in this area and that the government will have understanding, and I hope that MPs will also support those amendments. As I said, we cannot have equality on the market in half, but we have or do not have it; therefore, either we are establishing an equality on the market between the Republic Geodetic Institute and other professional organisations dealing with it, or let us not do so in this way as it is proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21476	There's a word from MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21477	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this amendment and addition of the law deserves certain answers to certain questions. First, we Serbian radicals ask the promoter, Government, in this case the government's representative, the minister -- how will you, ministers, do this job in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija; how will you do this job in the border area between the SRJ and Croatia, in the Catastrian municipalities of Backo Palanka, Odzacs, Apatin? Why -- because it's the president of your party, who was temporarily assigned to the foreign minister's post, generously gave 10,000 acres of land, owned by SRJ, Tonina Piculi. That is what you, Minister, should give your answer to this parliament, you should give a reply to this public; especially you, because you have a double obligation, not only as a minister, but as a member of a party whose head is temporarily deployed Goran Svilanovic. Secondly, claims that you have entered a newspaper with these changes and suggestions are not correct. Your newspaper, which you state, refers to the introduction of private geodetic organizations. Under the current law there are also those organisations, with you only introducing that they must necessarily have at least three employees, and of which one professionally qualified person with a state exam, and under the current law is the condition of eight employees. So don't be so reforming as to announce all the bells. You didn't do anything about reform. What deserves the same answer, is how and how you guarantee that there will be a unique record when it comes to cadastre, a record of the entry of the right to immovable property, when it is obvious that you are daily becoming more and more yielding to the pressures and blackmails of the autonomous parties that demand to move everything, over time, to the level of Vojvodina. Among other things, are you sure there won't be a request for this record to be conducted specifically for the territory of Vojvodina? Secondly, there is no unity, Mr. Minister, because this record is being conducted specifically for Kosovo and Metohija. You may have good relations with the international community, so with the international community you will measure, to register, that every parcel in Kosovo and Metohija in the next three magical years, as you say, will be owned by the Shiptara. We have no doubt that you will succeed with the international community. What is repeated every time changes and additions to the law are proposed, is that the public is always bombarded with some three-year deadlines. When it comes to implementing this law, it's three years. When it comes to getting the credit you've been boasting about, it's the same for three years. Gentlemen, are you so confident that you will remain in power for three years? Don't you see the reality in Serbia? We won't, you'll have to call the election at the end of this year. Don't be so confident, you don't decide anymore. You said yours in the election campaign, you cheated on the people, it's been enough time for the people to see what you're like and you'll have to call the election. Minister, you should have said that behind this proposal of yours is the financial effect you're counting on, so you listed from this pay phone, you just weren't clear to the end, as an example of New Belgrade, where most of the cases haven't yet been entered into property rights. That's the point. You want to make money, get additional funds into the budget. If as a government you're burned to survive, you'd better get out of this job, leave that job alone. You will not be incomed, especially you who are composed of 18 different parties, where and how there is protection, where and how there is injustice. You're not so confident that you're going to do the job honestly. You won't, gentlemen. No, there's most of you in New Belgrade who are now making up most of you. I apologize for the exceptions, but most of all, it's you. Well, that's what Joseph Broz's fathers got for you. These are the apartments you live in. You're not going to convince us that you're going to do this job properly now, to sign up for property. Minister, there's no problem if you want to make a suggestion. You have to understand, Serbia is not a hair or a mustache to paint so easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21478	The word has a People's MP, Rada Bajic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21479	Dear People's MPs, we have before us today a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe of immovableity. As the minister said yesterday, with many provisions, it is reform law. What kind of reform law - I'll start with an explanation, where under III says that everything that is based on the old law applies in this law and that the legal institutes are standing right now. Therefore, it is practically an old law prescribed and nothing else should have been done, but to work under the old law, but to provide funds. What could no longer be done under the existing law is certainly because there was never enough resources to approach the implementation of the programme, both annual and medium-term, and if the information is known that it takes about a billion marks to carry out this job, it is clear that even in future times, especially not these three years as it has been declared to be done, will not be able to provide the amount of funds to do so. Not disputed by the proponent's wish to settle an immovableity cadastre in Serbia urgently, to put it in order, if 10% is known to be done right, we must dispute some things in this law that is proposed. First of all, we have to look back at that three-year deadline, it says in Article 136d that if any preconditions are made for implementing this law will be made. First of all, it is said that private geodetic practice should be affirmed. Nothing else has happened before, it was also a legal solution. In fact, the situation was such that geodetic private practice existed and worked. Secondly, it is said that it is necessary to enable the establishment of geodetic enterprises with only three employees. There were eight of them before. So they were founded with those eight and they worked. Thirdly, in order to simplify the business of building a building block, a land cadastre should be used. Although the land cadastre will not be an adequate basis for building a catastra of immovableity for several reasons. First of all, it's known that land monasteries don't have a real condition. On the other hand, which data for catastrian land in Serbia do not represent both legal records, or there is no collection of documents on which property rights and other rights of immovable property are entered. When such real estate papers are submitted to the holders or owners of the property, there will be a series of emergencyes, complaints based on the registration of these immovableities, due to errors that existed in the land books. This will thus delay the debate, or resolution, not by at least three, but by five, six years. You said, and the basic provision here cuts, by asking for geodetic private practice to come into life, in Article 2. (I think it is attitude 2), he says that professional jobs where the main project is sought cannot be done, i.e. if the works of the Republic of Serbia are financed, it can only be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute. It's quite the opposite of this intensity to introducing private geodetic practice. If 90% of businesses are known to be financed from the Republic budget, then it is clear that it is the Republic Geodetic Institute that is completely free of competition in the market, when it comes to such works. Thus, this very attitude was largely eliminated by private geodetic practice. Now the question is what can be done by the units of the Republic Geodetic Institute in municipalities, which do not now have personnel, who are so busy with the job, especially about enrolment of real estate and ownership rights, especially because they are the only ones who can do it, because they are administrative affairs. The question is how will it be legalized - when the owners of illegally built objects want to legalise their facility, and there are certainly several hundred thousand, if not a million, whether the units of the Republic Geodetic Institute will be able to do this job with this number of employees and with this stimulation. On the basis of this, we believe that the Republic Government should still have adopted a medium-term programme of national diameter and a catastra of immovableity, to provide money under the old law, based on Article 9, to carry out these tasks. It's certain that without funds, nothing can be done. So the deadline you set here, and you put it into law, is absolutely unacceptable. It looks like it's just "hold the water while the masters leave." I think it was simply necessary to approach the development, i.e. the diameter of the state and the cataclysm of immovableity, since it annually produces the Republic Geodetic Institute, to provide funds and work under the old law, and not to break this much around the new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21480	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, and the next declared word is MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21481	It may be a warning, but I'll do it with a song again. You haven't heard it in a while. Explain to us Minister Šumarac, a top university professor, that the book state of real estate is not a cadastre, but a disaster; for this condition in the cataster, draw up the culprit of the list for us, and accuse the Celts and the Romans, Hune, Gote, and the communists; when we adopt this law, so we take care of books and diameters, the houses will register themselves, and the fields themselves will be measured; when we adopt this law, it will be clear and known to everyone who has an apartment in Geneks, and who has a house in Novi Banovci; when we adopt this law, we will catastrianally arrange the situation, and the people will cry out of happiness, what the leaders have a property; we will make new businesses, that they carry out professionally, and only those who give a hand; or the Minister or Director of the Geodetic Institute of the Government, only the one who fills their pockets, will be able to work successfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21482	Mr. Vuchurovic, I give you my first warning under Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21483	Oversight is done by the Geodetic Institute very professionally, there is no choir about it, when the wrong appeal is no more, and God has no administrative dispute; with them there are both the knife and the cake, but there is not much to worry about, they will cut off everyone by merit, you slices, you pieces; in the end, our dear ministers, and despite and after, the reforms are not called, reforms are a whole new law; but I can see that you are not concerned, who I said despite, do not worry about you at all, because you do not have a single sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21484	The People's MP Joca Arsic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21485	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, you are again facing a bill called reform law, but most of it remained the same in the text that was brought and adopted by the previous Assembly, except for the corrections that are listed here and I do not wish to repeat. In the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, this law has succeeded in bringing eight workers down to three, to reduce some deadlines, to transfer competences from the Geodesy Institute to enterprises and to, as it is said, be competitive with each other in the competition and in such a way that this job, which is scheduled to be done within three years, is done. We believe that this deadline is short, that the funds necessary for the application of this law are large and that this will be a major obstacle, such as this was a distraction in the previous period, because it was necessary to provide huge resources for non-small businesses to be carried out within this time limit as provided for by the law. In addition, large funds are also needed to obtain equipment for these jobs to be done. It was said here that with a single record it had been done and started only in a few cities. That fact is not true. The municipality from which I came started with a single record, paid our catastro the total funds needed for this job, which is scheduled to be done within 10 years and it was obviously not done, because it was obvious that these funds were not enough to do the job. In addition, there was also a major involvement of the geodetic administration in the work of carrying out the commission in the previous period, about the agreement with the records, with the land book and with the state of play after the commission. Just to remind you that this is one of the great activities in which the Geodetic Institute and the Geodetic Service gave its full contribution, that this job was done to the benefit of the citizens by rounding up the property and that in several of the commissions that were done in Pomoravlje, this job was almost completed. That made a huge contribution. Normally, it will cause and re-costs, because one and the other records should be agreed, which, I'm sure, will complicate jobs for this three-year period, as it is given. As regards the observations of the SPS parliamentary group, they also refer to one of the amended members of this law; Article 48 provides for certain deadlines, and the new Article 136v does not allow the conduct of the administrative dispute. There's a lot of talk about it here, and I'm not gonna say it again. I will just remind myself that it is in direct contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that such a provision cannot be found in this law; it is not, as I said, in agreement with the current Constitution, which some once say should not be held as a drunken vessel, and the other time when it suits them, quote and use it. The last thing I'm saying is that law enforcement in such a short time will, I'm sure, cost, and citizens who weren't up-to-date in implementing desert solutions, precisely because of the high cost of getting out of the geometry, establishing, that is, the translation of parcels, because it's about inheriting, deobs. This situation since 1932, which we are calling upon, has changed greatly to this day, has been depreciated and the number of plots has already been said, and I am sure that because of the impunity of citizens, owners, who have become heirs, this situation will be complicated, in addition to the fact that it will be complicated by a book on a thorough property, which is quite complicated in the areas where buildings for collective housing have been built. There is also another problem with recorded installations, with a catastre of underground installations and a problem with the write-off and book-booking of buildings such as railways, newly built embankments, newly built dams, newly built lakes. They're not registered. There's a new railway line going through my former yard, across land that's being run like infertile, but it's still in my possession. I don't have the obligation to pay taxes and contribute to that land, but it's still in my possession and I don't know what I need to do; whether to cut the line and say, you can't go through my yard anymore. This is one of the very important jobs that needs to be done and the resources needed. I say once again that these deadlines, and that means the MP's SPS group, are short; this big deal, I'm sure, needs to be done and done as planned by law, the government needs to do an operational programme and that this deadline, which is given by this law, evaluate once again and set an appropriate deadline for these jobs to be completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21486	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Hranislav Peric, and next reported is MP Zoran D. Nikolic. That would end the discussion in principle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there were a lot of words about the old law, there were a lot of findings that he was good. It's just, the law has suffered some changes that were necessary, and technically they're natures and they make compliance with new regulations. I don't think the implementation of the old law has been in practice due to a lack of money, although this law won't change much, because I don't see that there will be money for these purposes. What is predicted by this law requires a lot of work and a lot of money. If the Republic Geodetic Institute continues to bring a unique price list for diameter across Serbia, there will still be no local self-government geometry, as the expensive services they provide to citizens are expensive. In some places away from the community center, when you invite a geometer to distract your field, you better give it to him right away, because it's more of a geometric service than it's worth. I agree that there are a lot of problems in the cathedrals, the state of books and the field disagrees. I'm just afraid that this law doesn't impose any pressure and expense on this, because even so far taxes and taxes can't be paid by workers and farmers. I believe that even in this diameter and recording of the regulations, additional duties will be imposed on our people, who are paying these great taxes anyway. I also believe that the cadaster law should have been passed later, and before that, we should address issues that have more importance for this country. First, the external borders of this country need to be solved, and then measured within that country. When the father shares sons, he narrows the outer limits of the field to the neighbors, and then he shares it. As far as the external borders are concerned, nothing has been solved. Is this law necessary for the Cypriots to legalise a country purchased in southern Serbia from Serbs, and perhaps the law will address perhaps some more issues to the detriment of Serbs and Serbs. My proposal is to wait with this law, to leave politicians and authorities to set external borders, reformically, because in this new time, some politicians are the best geometers. They're always trying to advocate some new boundaries. Therefore, the state and borders should be established, and then the laws on the cataster should be passed. For example, Covic is constantly negotiating some new borders in southern Serbia. Svilanovic is also active in ending Serbia's borders. In the end, I would ask - will this law apply in Kosovo? Will the envisaged shootings and laws erase the Serbs' right to land in some parts of Cosmet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21488	Thank you. The last registered speaker is MP Zoran D. Nikolic. He's not there. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the original search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the final word? Please, the word has been made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I will say a few words about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. My goal is to try to make a contribution to doing this job, i.e. to suggest to the Serbian government, to point out where the path is good, i.e. to try to get out of the way. Honestly. [[Sagar.]] This law very clearly, even crystal clear, shows the continuation or continuity of the motion that the most legislative body, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, constantly, from day to day, is distracting the marginal laws, rather than dealing with much more serious matters. It's, even, taken a lot of shape. The second round of distractions begins from the next item of the agenda. We talked about the Radio Diffusion Act, or subscription, for 10 days to cancel the subscription. Then we were against the suspension and you were in, and now there's a new point where you're going to distract us for 10 days again, and now you're up for a subscription and we're up for it. What was I gonna say? Why do I say this is a distraction? We have the 1992 Cataster Act, which was changed in 1996, which was done by the authorities in this area. I will quote Professor Joksic, Professor Manet Miladanovic, who is now teaching a cadastre at the Faculty of Civil Engineering; he was done by some top law experts you have today placed on the most judicial functions in this country; (Leposava Karamarković) he is right, and Leposava Karamarković; so that law has nothing ideological, nothing political, even in this text has suffered any serious criticism. It is clearly and honestly said that he is a good basis for work, that there is no change in the legal institutes that regulate this matter. What would I understand? I would understand that over the past two years, and while the law and the accompanying act have been passed for another two years, the government has continued to do cadastrian fixed-state operations, and that those 9% that have been done over the past 10 years would have increased by 2% -- so 1% for each year -- and that in this practical work it has seen that there are certain legal disturbances. Then it would be fair to say - gentlemen, we're on our way, we're working, we have some interference in the law, and we're asking you to remove these interferences. This way, we haven't even done 2% in two years, and we're changing some marginal members of the law. What scares me? It scares me that the approach, or vocabulary of this law, indicates that even in the coming years there will be no desire to do anything. Here's why, I'll tell you. The first thing to be done -- a commission headed by the Prime Minister was formed. It's a famous thing, Churchill said, "If you want something to fall apart, so it doesn't get done, you form a commission." So, the first step, which I think is nakarada, beyond all other things, past the beginning of the work, is to form a commission. My understanding, and other people, is that if you form a commission, you marginalize it in advance and you don't want it to be done. Another thing - the spirit of changing the law indicates that there is no serious desire to do so. I'll document this, and you think about it. The Crown Change of the Law, and we heard the minister, is to enable the formation of private geodetic organizations. It could've been done by now. It took eight, and now three workers are proposed. But Article 2 says "these geodetic oranizations cannot carry out a job that finances the Republic's budget". Well, 80% of these heavy, responsible and very important jobs are funded from the Republic's budget. So, what kind of thing do you have in practice? Private geodetic organizations will form - from where? From the Republic Geodetic Institute, that is, from its branches, people will move into private geodetic organizations, and they will not be able to do a job that finances the budget. So this job that finances the budget, which is big, will remain the Republic Geodetic Institute, which will be weakened for those workers who move into private geodetic organizations. The next thing you know absolutely that we have no intention of taking this job seriously is, gentlemen and ladies, working deadlines. If someone tells me that in three years it will do the job for which it is -- look, the minister knows, there is a study of the Republic Geodetic Institute -- it will take at least 10 years (three years to get into the area where the agricultural land is, where there are no construction facilities), it is unserious. It's like if a farmer said-- now I'm going to plant corn, so in two months I'm going to do the harvest. It means that everything I've said has to be well-intentioned to indicate that there's no serious intention of accessing this. What would be serious for me, or for us MPs, even for Members of the ruling majority, who should direct their government? It would be serious if she said - ladies and gentlemen, here's a study of the Geodetic Institute, this takes a billion marks. That's true: that estimate will reach a billion dollars, but let's not fail - it takes a billion marks and 10 years for that job. Let's start by 2% a year and this power will leave the next government at least another 9% or 10%. One job that is necessary for this country, which is not divided into party, political, and I don't know what, must be done in some future period. However, I can't help but feel that the policy that has already been read, which the people have read, which is constantly rocking, rolling, and nothing is done, continues to wave. But the people, ladies and gentlemen, understood that. You can't go through Serbia now without telling you a story about how the draftr of this law took the train through Serbia and stopped the train at about 10 o'clock; the problem, no railway, he says - please invite this majority of us from the Assembly to come, and these say - it's only 11 o'clock, they haven't arrived yet; he says - call these helpers, those of us from the balcony; they come, and he says - gentlemen, the problem is, we'll solve it, rock the train so the passengers think the train is going. And the train's rocking, the passengers think the train's leaving in the first hour, but then the little kids realize the train's not going. But we're still rocking it in this area. So the government should withdraw this law, or accept all amendments because they won't change it or fix it. He's who he is. And what to do -- what the DSS colleagues said -- bring in a medium-term plan, define financial resources and get to work. You pull it. Ladies and gentlemen, the third-row MP throws it away, Mr Popovic, and I don't blame him. He's the legend of this home, he's told the best joke this year, that joke will be included in anthology for this year; he's asked MPs what this government is like, they've all been silent, and he said the government is reform. I invite him to tell that joke again, the people love to hear that joke, because it's really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21490	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Then here you are, Milutin Svedovic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21491	I didn't intend to answer, but it's obvious that some colleagues who have exposed themselves have run over time; there are modern software, modern technologies making all these maps and data, so absolutely this can be done in more than three years. Whoever doesn't believe it and doesn't know it can go to the tech fair to see what's down there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21492	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) On what basis of the replicas? No, you're not mentioned at all, there's no basis for replication. I'm finishing the initial search. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Crossover and Cataster and entered the right to immovable property, in principle. For 115, against 23, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Please, the word has been made by MP Milisav Petkovic, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21493	In accordance with Article 138. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I propose that the amendment debate lasts three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21494	I would like to put on the vote by MP Milisav Petkovic to discuss the amendments for three minutes. For 86, against 44, with 22 abstentions, 26 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. What's wrong with you? I mean, I don't really understand, such joy. Before deciding on the amendments, since the Legislative Committee has not submitted a report on amendments submitted to the draft law, I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 136(5) and as regards Article 144. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without a report from the Legislative Committee or to set a new deadline within which the Committee is obliged to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide to consider the draft law in particular without a report from the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 113, against 41, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to hold the debate without a report from the Legislative Committee. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. We must vote because we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee. For 110, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 64, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. A representative of the proposal at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction also accepted the amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 128, no one with abstentions voted 49 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21495	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. This article provides for conditions for the performance of professional tasks, both for the Republic Geodetic Institute and for geodetic organisations formed in accordance with this law, with the number of professionals involved in the performance of these tasks being reduced from eight to three. Nothing is disputed, all this is in line with the declared policy that you have said here on the liberalisation of conditions for the formation and creation of new geodetic organisations, as well as on the fulfilment of the conditions for these organisations which are currently formed and which work. In the amendment that I have submitted, I have proposed to delete additional Articles 2 and 3 which create imbalances regarding the same conditions between the Geodetic Institute and the geodetic organisations forming. Article 2 and 2 respectively, which are proposed here, reads: "If, on the basis of the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the act of another competent state body adopted under the law, the works referred to in Article 1 of this Article are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the works are carried out by the Republic of Geodetic Institute." So it's about professional work on jobs where the main project is planned. "If the financing of works under Article 1 is carried out from other sources, these works shall be carried out by a geodetic organisation in accordance with a contract concluded between the investor and the contractor, following a public tendering process or the collection of written offers. "In an explanation of why the Government does not accept this amendment, which makes sense to me that the Government does not accept amendments from the opposition parties, as we MPs of opposition parties who do not accept all government proposals, it is stated: "The reason for not accepting this amendment consists in the fact that the provisions of the bill are being taken apart, on the basis of the funding, of the professional activities for which the main project to be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. geodetic Organisations". There's nothing to argue about. We disagree, as MPs of the opposition Socialist Party and representatives of the government. However, the government does not remain in its opinion, given that a similar amendment has been submitted to the same member of the DSS parliamentary group, which regulates the area of development of the main project by the Republic Geodetic Institute and Geodetic Organisations, as well as that the Government has adopted this amendment to the MPs' club, or to the DSS MPs. So the government doesn't have a single opinion on the same business. I can say that by accepting the amendment of the DSS MPs, the objective I had when I submitted this amendment was achieved. So, the conditions for getting jobs at the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Geodetic Organization have been evened out. I think this member and this insistence on equating conditions will lead to a decrease in prices at the Republic Geodetic Institute and the introduction of geodetic organisations in matters of state diameter and cadastre. So at this point, the goal that I wanted to achieve with this amendment, and given the adoption and adoption of a new law on public procurement, I think that there is also a level playing field; through public competition, the goal will be to achieve both the geodetic and geodetic organisations that are formed as equal participants in the performance of the tasks for which the main project is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21496	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21497	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very interesting here to hear Mr. Minister Schumartz, because an amendment that is the crown defense of this law refuses. So, we have proposed, and the minister defends the law by equating, i.e. introducing a private geodetic practice that should speed up work. In key jobs, which are business funded by the Republic's budget, private geodetic organisations are excluded. So we've been looking right in the spirit of defending this law, as the minister defends the law, to equate private geodetic organizations and the Republic Geodetic Institute. I just explained that by creating private geodetic organizations, the Republic Geodetic Institute will be weakened because we don't have the geometers at the Bureau. These geometries will come, or professional labour will come from the Republic Geodetic Institute to private ones. We're going to have a much stronger private geodetic organization than the Republic Geodetic Institute in some segments. It is therefore quite logical, if the minister defends the law by introducing private geodetic organisations, to be in the business of equal organisations. I think the amendment is logical and should be accepted if the minister has no new explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21498	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 33, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. A representative of the proposal at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction also accepted the amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP Milutin Svetović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21499	The amendment was accepted by the Committee precisely because it only added one sentence, which reads: "or a geodetic organisation after the public competition procedure". Articles 2 and 3 have essentially remained the same with this additive. Because such a member is celery and completely complete, one of the most important reasons is that geodesy organisations can compete with each other and with the Republic Geodesy Institute in tenders to be called by the Government. Thank you again for your support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21500	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21501	When deciding on this amendment, it should be very thoughtful, because the amendment's proposal has indicated that it wants to make changes in the new position 3 and that the Government is formulating the new position 3 completely differently. (From Hall: Correction.) I didn’t get that correction, but I’m just drawing attention that we might make a mistake, even though the intention is good. But it was also a good intention for the previous amendment; perhaps it could have been a little more precise. All in all, only by changing the concept in paragraphs 3 or 2, as already referred to as the Proposer, it is not possible to achieve competition in all businesses, but again something partial. But as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, our desire is to have competition on the market, and it doesn't matter what you write. This country of ours is being measured by Montgomery. It is not measured either by the Republic Geodetic Institute, by private geodetic organisations, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the National Assembly, by our state, by Montgomery. Those who think that in three years' time can measure this country again, I remind you that a year and a half since they've been doing so, but you didn't seem to have any clear instructions as to what to measure. If the foreign minister's instructions, relating to the western part of the northern part of the Republic of Serbia, were clear, then you will have to present to us in public what instructions are for the north of the country itself, what instructions are for the northeast, at the borders with Romania, with Bulgaria, what are the instructions for the south, at the borders with Macedonia. It would be good to get that on paper, to write to us exactly how Montgomery measured the country, how much it belongs to us under the law that he gives us, and then to decide on this bill, as we decide on any other bill. As far as we're concerned, I repeat, in part, given the members involved in loyal competition, we believe that the Republic Geodetic Institute has neither competition nor will they have it under this bill. I'm trying to look for the good intentions of the promoter, I'm trying to understand that there are jobs that only a state body can do in quality, but if administrative oversight is entrusted to the expert state authority, then other types of organization should be allowed to do jobs, so before there is no right of administrative dispute to the solution of the Republic Geodetic Institute. That means that the state is always able to stop the execution of some bad deed that someone would do, let's call it, from competing with the Republic Geodetic Institute. The truth is, this is a huge job, it's going to be a job for everyone, so I'm surprised why this job shuts down schools and colleges that educate geodetic experts? Do we have any other jobs in which we have eliminated the most professional ones in law enforcement? Don't tell me that the college where the geodetics go to school, that the school where the geometers go to school isn't capable of doing certain jobs. It was supposed earlier, now it's been erased, now it's out of the law; it's just that I read the law, unlike others.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21502	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 111 against 12, the abstentions were not voted 55, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21503	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4 of this reform proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Article 13 of the Basic Law, which speaks of the authority of a specific legal person to set up supervision of the performance of professional work in the field of the establishment of land and the catastra of immovableity. The text of the amendment reads: "Article 4 in point 1 is amended and reads: The Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. the investor, provides professional supervision during the performance of the works". In the same proposal for a law, only a certain correction has been made, in accordance with Article 1(1) of this proposal. Why did I submit that amendment? In the very explanation given by the Government, it is said that private practice is being introduced, that liberalisation is being done and that the procedure is being simplified; in order to carry out these, for our Republic of very important jobs, privatisation is being made and the possibility is being created that, apart from the Republic of Geodetic Office, another investor is also performing professional tasks. If it is said that the Republic Geodetic Institute is performing administrative tasks and that other organisations and investors can carry out professional tasks, then I do not see why an investor, in accordance with the Investment Act, which is in force at this time in our country, can set up a professional person according to certain rules and regulations prescribed by the one in whose jurisdiction is the administrative procedure, i.e. the Republic Geodetic Institute? Since the sums of transactions carried out in the area of state diameter, then the land cadastre and the immovableity cadastre are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to more than 90%, according to previous members of this bill, the Republic Geodetic Institute will also determine the persons who will carry out these tasks. I don't see any reason why other investors, by solving this complex and very important problem, don't put a supervised expert in doing these jobs. The question arises - how will the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute determine the person outside the Republic Geodetic Office to carry out professional tasks, professional supervision tasks, if he is outside the scope of the Republic Geodetic Institute, how will he determine the time, who will make the payment of those funds, and how will all this be regulated? For this reason, there is much justification to accept this amendment, which is almost in the same text as those proposed by the DSS colleagues. For me as an engineer, other things are much more important, which is that these "cosmetics" in the proposal, which the government calls reform, are really placed in place. For such a complex job, which has not been done for these or those reasons, it should primarily have financial resources that are not planned enough in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year and that are to be found for this complex job to be done. I note that it is a big business to legalise wildly built objects, both individual, residential, and municipal, infrastructure, and buildings that are important to our country. I note that the Đerdap hydro-energy system did not register properties from areas of hydro-building facilities that occupy large spaces, not only in the area of residential construction, New Belgrade, but also capital buildings. This is a complicated job. It takes money, and above all, experts are needed. As one of the engineers, not that profile, I think we have experts in this area, but for a complex job like this, except for the means, we should have highly educated experts from the construction college, the geodesy department, high-school geodesy, and then we have to go to this stuffy job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21504	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 99, there are no abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment, and a proposal representative at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction has also accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? He has the word National MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21505	I would only say that, since the amendment to Article 1 has been accepted, this is one logical continuation, because there are no longer reasons why the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute would determine who will supervise the performance of the work. In fact, in terms of market equality, one entity applying for a job cannot monitor the performance of the same business. In the end, I would just say, as far as this Serbian diameter -- Nikola Kalabic, a surveyor from Valjev, in the '30s, measured that Serbia, as it was, and this Serbian, who made it the way it is, I guess we'll be able to measure it with laser devices and no flights in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21506	Since there are no more applications for this amendment, I am putting the amendments to the vote. For 91, against 13, the abstentioned did not vote 65, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21507	I have made an amendment to delete paragraphs 2 and 3 in Article 7. By erasing positions two and three, it is ensured that technical documentation can be produced by geodetic organisations, regardless of the funding of works from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is also comprehensive because it allows more geodetic experts and organisations to participate in the production of technical documentation. That's why I'm asking if this is decentralisation, if we rule out the organizations that we form from some jobs. Why did we allow private geodetic organizations, and we don't trust them with certain jobs? Why are we shutting them out of the Republic-funded business? I think it's better if we include everything, and we realized that this job should take a long time, there's a lot of work to do, there's no one to rule out, but to create competition to get the jobs done as quickly as possible. In the end, there was a speech here about the rapid diameter of the state. I'm just afraid that in the future, for a while, we'll have nothing to measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21508	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 30, against 91, there are no abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. The proposing representative, at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, also accepted the amendment. Does anyone in the name of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 78, against 10, the abstentions were not voted 80, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21509	Dear MPs, honourable ministers, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 22. A bill of this law. In accordance with Article 22(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Government, as a bill promoter, provided that only geodetic organisations perform the professional tasks of that member, and in the position of the 5th of the same member, provided that there is no registered geodetic organisation on the territory of the municipality, i.e. if the geodetic fires registered in the territory of the municipality refuse to carry out those tasks or not to supply the collected data within the prescribed time limit. The amendment proposes to leave the possibility that these jobs can also be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute and Geodetic Organisations, primarily referring to private geodetic firms, and that they can apply equally to obtaining these jobs in all cases. The amendment also proposes to allow these jobs to be obtained by any geodetic organisation, not as proposed by the government, so that it can be a geodetic organisation registered in the territory of the municipality where these jobs are being done. Why is the government preventing these companies from being competitive? The adoption of the amendment continues to maintain the safety of these tasks being carried out by the Republic Geodetic Office, unless the Geodetic Organisations accept these tasks or deliver the data collected within the prescribed time limit. In such a way, the regulation of this Member shall not favour or put in an unequal position either the Republic of Geodetic Institute or the registered geodetic organisation from any municipality. On the contrary, conditions are being created for greater competitiveness, professionally, more efficient and favourable performance. The adoption of amendments will allow rightholders, holders or users of immovableness to choose a more professional, favourable contractor, or a more trusted performer. The government's argument not to accept the amendment because it says "which is in the definition of the bill to liberalise private practice and to allow geodetic organisations to carry out these jobs on the market". In fact, that argument is not acceptable. It's not acceptable because it's not based on facts. It's just, it's like no one's even read the amendment. The adoption of the amendment does not call into question the liberalisation of private practice at all. On the contrary, its acceptance in obtaining jobs provides complete equality and competitiveness between private geodetic companies and the Republic Geodetic Office. Taking into account all the above, it is quite justified for the amendment to be accepted and it would be good for Mr. Minister to say that on behalf of the Government. I would ask that the quorum be established before the vote, because I believe that there are really no 126 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21510	I must remind the MPs of your MP group that every time I warn them of using the capacity of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, by the Rules of Procedure, set up a proposal and I'll forward it to you. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 15, against 91, the abstentions were not voted 38, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure or a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21511	On the basis of Article 82(5), I doubt there is a quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system and I would ask you to provide me with a copy of the last vote, as I consider it irregular. I warn you that under Article 117, paragraph 2 is a punishable use of other people's identification cards and you can see for yourself, the whole row against the wall is a constant vote against, although only one MP sits in line against the wall. This leaves great doubt about the regularity of the vote. We don't have a team before the quorum, we don't even have amendments that would have to go away because some previous amendments have been accepted. The law will be all messed up and confusing. There is something behind it, if the amendment promoter had some continuity and if one amendment has passed, all others involved in such a concept must pass, which even in one vote is accepted by the majority who supports the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I ask you to finally determine if there are any Members of Parliament in the room of 126.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21512	I ask the National Assembly to determine whether a quorum is required in the O.R. to continue work and to insert your identification cards into your MPs' units. I figure we've got a quorum to work with and we're moving on. Pslovnik's injury, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21513	I must warn you, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't a football game, this isn't a movie show, this is where the laws are passed. There's a procedure for everything. I warned you, Mrs. Komic, that there was no quorum in the previous vote and that what the results of the vote did not correspond to the truth. That's why I suggested that we determine whether it fits the truth or not, whether we have a quorum in the O.R. or not. You've waited 15 minutes to play a sign that now has 126 MPs in the O.R. That's what you need to continue the session, but I asked you to do what you're supposed to do, to determine if there's a quorum in that room, because it's important. The amendment to Article 7 didn't go through, and I don't even know what you're going to do with this law, how you think you're applying it. It's easy to run a congregation unseriously. You've been sitting there for an hour, standing all turned on and waiting for 126, but something happened in the meantime when it wasn't 126, when the Assembly couldn't work. Yeah, we got out of the O.R., that's our right. There are 178 of you, and you're even better when we go out, you work faster, you work easier, there's no distractions; but when we go out and you're gone 126. There is no one to support the government of the Republic of Serbia, no one to uphold the laws. Mrs. Comic, I'm seriously complaining. Act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and when the MP asks to establish the quorum, establish. It's the time you need to vote, it's 16 seconds and determine whether there's a quorum or not, and that we're sitting there waiting for all of you to have lunch, to do the jobs they went to and go back to inserting cards, that wasn't my wish. And, once again, you haven't delivered me a list of the previous vote. I guarantee you, there are people on that document you haven't even been able to bring in now. Because it's even possible they're not in Belgrade today. I accept that you most of all pass the law whatever you want, but that majority in the congregation must exist. The law cannot be passed as long as the Rules of Procedure, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines how this assembly works. The law cannot be passed unless 126 MPs are in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21514	Whether you want an explanation for the breach of your Rules of Procedure or not; or not you want to. I remind the People's Parliament that this is the National Assembly in which the MPs should, according to the Rules of Procedure, listen to the chairman. So I repeat the question - does the MP want an explanation and whether he wants a listing? One of those two, none or both. I find MP Tomislav Nikolic undecided, so the chairman will take the decision. Listing is here and you can take it whenever it suits you. For an explanation by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for which the right proposal was made by the MP, chairing it in an obligation to establish the quorum and that is to determine the quorum. The quorum process has nothing to do with the previous vote. In the course of decision-making on amendments today, all parliamentary groups have used the right not to vote, as their parliamentary right, as is the right and to be abstentioned, to be against or to be in favour. I can give an example when the SPS parliamentary group did not vote, when it refused to participate in the voting process -- I do not vote, when SRS MPs, as well as other MPs, members of the ruling majority did. Whether the MP is satisfied with the explanation or you want to vote on whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken in determining the quorum. I find that the MP is not interested in the fate of his proposal to harm the Rules of Procedure. The word comes from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21515	First of all, respect for the chairman and all MPs. On the occasion of this amendment, we ourselves have seen everyone do it - come out, stay a lot of cards and simply come up with a situation that some amendments can't go away because there are a lot of those who haven't voted. We later determined, it took a long time to determine that we had a quorum. I would suggest that there be a re-election on this amendment. First, to get the right result of the vote on individual amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21516	I'd love to, but the National Assembly can't vote on the same thing twice. We voted on the amendment to Article 22 and to Article 7 and consultations with the chairman were in terms of comments on the facts - the results of the vote on Article 7, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Milutin Svetović, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic, who accepted, apart from the Legislative Committee, the committee responsible and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Serbian Parliament did not. That's not a problem we can handle by voting twice on the same thing. I'm sorry. Eventually, we can task the committee in charge to intervene with an amendment that would harmonize the legal and technical redistribution of the text. In consultation with the chairman of the Legislative Committee, it is a job that will be the subject, I assume, at the session of the Legislative Committee, to be held today at a session session at 1400 hours. I repeat: MPs - members of the Legislative Committee to be present at 14.00 p.m. at the session of the Legislative Committee, which was scheduled by Committee President Bojan Pajtic, at room 1 on the ground floor, to try properly to solve the problem that arose because of the different vote of the Assembly and the proposing. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21517	Article 23 states that if the unit of the Republic Geodetic Institute, in the municipality, determines irregularities at the time of national diameter and entry into the immovableity cadastre, can make a correction within two years and after the decision to appeal to the Republic of Geodetic Office, the damaged party shall no longer have the right to conduct administrative dispute. We simply believe that all those who have been damaged have the right to seek and conduct court proceedings. For this reason, we have also submitted an amendment requesting that the right be established, that is to say, that it is not abolished by the right to conduct a judicial procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21518	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 24, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 40th Amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 103, against eight, the abstentions were not voted by 29, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milutin Svetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21519	In Chapter VII - The power to adopt sublegislative acts - in Article 40, Article 122 is amended and "The Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute is prescribed", according to a number of sublegal acts - what should be prescribed by the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. What was done by accepting the amendments to Article 2 was that the Republic Geodetic Institute and Geodetic Organisations were even, so the director of the Geodetic Institute and the director of a work geodetic organisation were even. The Democratic Party of Serbia proposes to be in article 40. The draft law introductory sentence in Article 122, paragraph 1, changes and reads: "The government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Republic of Geodetic Institute, prescribes... "and so on. So, it's just a matter of respecting this trail of events to the end and thinking that a sentence like this doesn't bother this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21520	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister in the government, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21521	This amendment can be supported, it will slow down the procedure a little, because so far it has been all in the jurisdiction of the Republic Geodesy Institute, but it won't mind if it comes to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21522	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Thus, at the meeting of the Assembly, the Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not, and we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 106, against six, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Proposal to add a new member. National MPs Stevan Guduric and Rade Bajic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the bearer want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stevan Ž. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21523	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs, I have submitted an amendment that reads: "The local self-government organisations are free from paying compensation for the use of immovableity cadastra data in the process of adopting spatial and urban plans and infrastructure network projects". The proposal is for two reasons. One is that, when these diameters were made, the costs were borne by municipalities, businesses and citizens. It wasn't the cost of a republican budget. In the case of Beocin municipality, this cost structure looked like this (and similar everywhere in Vojvodina): 60% of these costs were borne by the municipality from its budget; 20% were borne by citizens and working organisations at the time; and 20% were from the budget; AP Vojvodina. That's one reason. So whoever once paid for it would normally be using it for free. The second reason, you talked all the time in the election campaign and today you're talking about going into decentralisation, there's just no decentralisation when you took most of the money into the republican budget and then it would at least be normal -- if there's no decentralisation, or even money, because the largest number of municipalities didn't get a cent more than he had previously in percentages -- it would make sense that at least in this part you would free up the municipalities of these payments. So, it's just capital matters, infrastructure facilities, and it wouldn't be a very specific item; although, as I understood on that committee, the government will do something very important to some regulation in that part, but the regulation is a regulation, and the law is a law. I think there's enough reason for one of these amendments to be adopted, to allow municipalities to pay what they already paid out of their money, not once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21524	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 96, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Milutin Svetović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21525	There was controversy on the board about this amendment. We're standing as the DSS still behind this so we just have to carry out a public insight. The whole construction of newly added members contained in Article 48. The bill is based on this new Article 136. It follows from that provision of Article 136a that it will not be exposed to public data on immovableities and rights on them, but that it will educate the Immobility Catalogue on the basis of the data contained in the land cadastre. The solution is unacceptable because the user or owner of some immovable property is denied the right to inform the public of how and in what way its immovableity is listed in the immovableity cadastra and what rights and burdens exist over existing immovableities. The exposure to public insight would align the situation in the catastro with the real situation as the user’s insight, i.e. by their objections and documentation, is quickly revealed and removed from the differences between the factual and recorded situation. We also think that it's better to start at a good time, when this is done immediately with public insight, to report to the immovable property owners and remove it from the beginning, than to do this after a single automation, and then for years they're doing re-adjustments, lawsuits and other things. So we're simply about to do one fundamental state of change in a quality way. Maybe this is a treasure or a little addition of all that, but we think it's a lot more quality, and in the beginning, all the misunderstandings would be eliminated. On the contrary, Article 136a proposes a simple conversion of data and on the immovableities and rights on them, from one way of recording in another way, which practically retains the discrepancy between the facts and the recorded state. It is certain, then, that there is a discrepancy between the condition found in our monasteries and what is on the ground. Deleting Articles 136b to 136d is proposed because their contents are derived from this Article 136a. The government did not support this amendment for one reason only, as it said the amendment would not be accepted by the provisions of Article 48. The bill creates the possibility of a real estate cadasar in the Republic of Serbia forming as soon as possible and reducing the cost of building a building block. However, I think the essence of the quality of the data is and that this conversion is real and adequate. I hope you will support this amendment for those very reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21526	The word has a minister in the government, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21527	Land cadastre exists on those parts where there are no land books. Where there are land books, the land cadastre is the first step on which land books are formed and there is certain that all of this is harmonised. This mainly refers to rural support, so not to cities, and that is 60% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government, as the legislator of the law, with the help of the Republic Geodetic Institute, when it set that three-year deadline, meant this solution. Such a solution, as Mr. Milutin Svedovic suggests, would mean there is a commission for the entire Catastrian municipality. That means someone who's gone somewhere or his heirs, for example, to America, can object to repay it indefinitely. As you know, there's always judicial protection. And today we're witnesses, we know what it looks like in the country, that brother's brother is suing for the border. Therefore, there remains judicial protection. Nothing is abolished as far as property rights are concerned, only this way the process is accelerated and the government cannot stand behind this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21528	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21529	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, above all, the interest of the DSS was to have one too-exclusive deadline to determine eight or 15 days for interested parties to have public insight into what would have been done. This is important for the sake of legal certainty and that 15-day deadline would mean exactly that; if the interested party does not exercise its right within that time period, it is considered accurate and can only be referred to the protection of its rights before the court. This is a procedure that would be carried out in the manner provided for in the law, meaning to leave the right to insight within eight or 15 days. This would warn many of the disputes that will someday be brought before the court, because we know (I have this experience from my own, not excessively long, court-law practice) that the most disputes are precisely about borders, parcels, immobilities. We would simply warn all potential disputes in this way and allow citizens to protect their rights directly from the body that has done the plot.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21530	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21531	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that we must seek to protect the rights of the individual. However, this is a paradoxical situation in which we, protecting individual rights, question the rights that, for example, follow all those whose interests cannot be questioned because of the possible question of an individual's interest. So, if one person submits some kind of remark, a process that takes a long time in itself, which cannot be realistically completed in eight days, nor can a parallel with it end up enrolling in the cataster of all others who are indisputable, taking into account first and foremost the problem resulting from the half-century desolation. We need to pay attention to Article 136b and Article 136v, which actually opens up the possibility of correcting a possible error. In advance of this, we would completely suspend the rights of all those who are satisfied with the scales and who have no form of objections. I think that in such a way we would further slow down everything that was our essential intention through the amendments to this law. So we have to protect the interests of individuals, but we can't protect them at the expense of everyone else. This would be exactly the same and because, although the idea is in itself useful, it is not realistic at this time, because, as the minister himself said, we are questioning the enrollment of 60% of our territory which has not been properly treated so far. We cannot accept that, and therefore, through Article 136b and 136v, we will achieve this right of the individual, but we will not question the interest of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21532	National MP Milutin Svedovic, replica, misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21533	I'd just say we might be misread here. Mr. Jovanovic, it's only controversial parcels. So other parcels that are regular can be entered. So, it's just the disputed plots and possibly the ones that rely on them, that come between them. So it's just these parcels.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21534	The word has a minister in the government, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21535	Please, he can't, here's what Mr. Svetovic said is expanding to neighboring parcels. It's obvious he can't, it's gotta be done in the entire Catastrian municipality. Therefore, there is judicial protection and anyone in the court can achieve that protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21536	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 78, the two abstentions, were not voted 38, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 48th amendment was filed by MP Joca Arsic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21537	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment with a correction to Article 48. I am only obliged to give a brief explanation of why the correction took place - because the legislator gave additions to one member and practically put three or four new members. He could have done so by proposing new members, not by one member, Article 48, to give these amendments and additions. In that amendment, we suggested that Article 48 should read Article 136b of Article 2. Article 3 is amended as follows: "The resolution of the Republic Geodetic Institute shall confirm the cadastrian operat referred to in Article 1 and determine the date of application of the cadastrian operat. "Also, in Article 48, in Article 136v, point 4 is deleted. In Article 48, Article 136d is amended as follows: "In accordance with the provisions of Articles 136a to 136g of the Immobilization Catalogue, the Republic Geodetic Institute will educate within three years of the date of entry into force of this law. The Republic Geodetic Institute will report to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the state of education at least once a year." This includes improving these sections of Article 48, to take into account our views which are also raised in the principle debate, and in particular with reference to Article 136v, where the right to conduct a administrative dispute is deleted, only a dispute can be held with the court. I have already said, and to repeat now, it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, that once a year, the government is reporting on the state of affairs for the catastra, just to have insight into what is happening and what is happening under this law, at least once a year. Normally, our views are not accepted. I ask the Assembly to change the position of the Committee and the position of the Government and to make a positive statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21538	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 107, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic together submitted the 49th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 49, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MP Branko Pavlovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not spoken out. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the National Assembly to declare the amendment to Article 53. I am concluding the vote and I am saying, for 103, the three, the abstentioned, did not vote 53, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? I find that on behalf of the applicants, the MP withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I find that, on behalf of the applicants, MP Milutin Zastanovic withdrew the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 55th amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, I ask the National Assembly to declare its amendment to Article 55 by voting. I conclude the vote and I find that 108, against six, with abstentions, did not vote 44, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Slobodan Pavlovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been issued by MP Dragan Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic has submitted an amendment to Article 55, and since he is for health reasons prevented from coming, I will explain the amendment. The amendment is of a technical nature. I need to read the text of the law to figure out what this is about. Article 55 reads - if the geodetic organisation that is registered until the date of entry into force of this law does not comply with its business conditions prescribed by this law and by the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, will be deleted from the register of geodetic organisations. Mr. Pavlovic suggests adding "90 days from the day of entry into force of this law" a sentence "or "from the day of adoption of the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". Why? Because the condition is cumulative, it must fulfil both the terms and conditions of the government's act. And what can happen now in practice -- it can happen that the law is passed and that it runs normally for 90 days without the act being brought in on time, but it is brought on the 89th day; since it applies 90 days from the date of entry into force of the law, it can be deleted by a geodetic organization, without the guilt of whoever owns it. Mr. Pavlovic suggests that the date of the decision, namely the government act that is closer to regulates this matter, also applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21540	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote 12 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Sikimic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 55a be added after article 55a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Srdjan Sikimic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment stipulates that the provisions of the Law on the State's Prime Minister, the cadastre and the enrolment of the rights to immovable property are not applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia where real rights are established on the basis of land books. This is why -- if we accepted the government's position and rejected this amendment, we would be in a situation where we had one regulation that would be contrary to, a few months ago passed, a package of law on the organisation of justice in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, since there are a whole set of provisions in that law which also puts the process of enrolment of rights, so the constitutional elements of the acquisition of property rights, into the exclusive jurisdiction of the court. There is no doubt that the state has the authority to prescribe records, and among other things, the cadastra records for the needs it considers to be able to draw certain data from such records. However, there is something called the constitutional element of acquiring property rights, which is just entering a public book. The fact is, under the basic law on property-legal relations, it is not specific whether it is a public book, or a cadastrian book, or a land book as a public book. But it should be noted that most of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has established a land book, in which the registration of the right is done, and thus meets the constitutional element of the acquisition of property rights. If we accept an existing solution, we come to an absurd situation, which is that something that is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the judiciary falls now into the jurisdiction of the administrative authorities. The administrative authority would put itself in the situation just as a cassation over court decisions. That is why, in my opinion, the unacceptable explanation given by the Government by pleading against this amendment, which says that the authority in the registration process will appreciate just the similarity of the court ruling. This is simply inadmissible, because according to the existing positive regulations, and that is also the flow of the global legal order, there is no institute that outside of judicial jurisdiction can in any way assess any judicial decision. It is exclusively the jurisdiction of the court and in that part it is virtually impossible in any institutional part to integrate any other body, with any authority. It should be said that at this point, a unique record exists on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at 2% of the territory, and that land-book records exist on 46% of the territory, of which, on the entire territory of Vojvodina. It is also important to note that it is a system that has been working properly for more than 150 years. If we look at parallel law, as well as solutions in Europe, right where there is a single system of records there is a land book in whose jurisdiction is the record of real rights. So, if we want to pass one regulation that will be compatible with EU regulations and parts of Europe in which the continental legal system applies, then in any case we have to accept such an amendment, because it saves us. On the contrary, we will come into a situation where we have a regulation that will be contrary to our positive regulations. There is only one more thing to say here, that the existing provisions of the Law on Prefer and Cataster and the amendments offered do not offer the necessary legal certainty in the transport of real rights, with the absence of a complete application procedure, etc. the principle of prior Temporre Tyror is violated either faster in time, stronger in law, etc. So my amendment is just trying to allow the existing record, which is undoubtedly of a quality, with a 150-year tradition to remain, because we have absolutely no argument why now a fully successful system would be overrun into a system that has not yet been revived. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that our legal system has been introduced on a catastra-by-cataster basis solely for fiscal reasons. This was the basis why, in the meantime, tax regulations made that need fall off, and it is absolutely unnecessary for us to pour into that system something that is completely working.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21542	The word has a minister in the government, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21543	With all the respect Mr. Sikimic has made here, the government cannot accept this amendment, because the 1992 law has already resolved that. So that's when the immovableity cadastre was introduced as public records. In addition, Article 5 states that, in the case of multiple registrations of fixed property rights, the right previously entered is stronger. Thus, no one cancels land books. If land books could have been brought to life on this territory, they would have been alive since 1932, when they were introduced. As you said, they only exist in Vojvodina and they are only somewhat up-to-date. The most common is that courts are independent, that they are not under the influence of the authorities and that then they can make the most of the proper entries. An example of this is the previous period. The previous government has entered the CK building in the land books. She's not listed anywhere in the immovableity cadastre. Please let some of the solutions that were made in 1992 not change now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21544	Are any of the other participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 81, two abstentions, 35 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 84(2), and in relation to Article 81, I hereby set a break of up to 15.00 hours and remind the MPs, members of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly, to be present at the Committee's session in Hall I on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. We continue to work on the revision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossover and Cataster and the registration of rights to immovable property, in particular and decision-making on amendments. You have received an amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure. Is anyone answering for this amendment? Please, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21546	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accepted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Cataster and Laws on immovable property rights submitted by the MPs Milutin Svetović, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic, and on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have created the need to bring Articles 2 and 7 of this proposal into line. In this respect, the Legislative Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt the next amendment, in Article 7. The bill, in Article 15j, in the second paragraph of Article 2 after the word "institute", adds the words "or a geodetic organisation after a public tendering process". In that sense, the provisions of this law would be fully in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21547	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put to the vote the amendments of the Legislative Committee on Article 7. For 118, against five, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, I ask if the motionary's representative, Minister Dragoslav Šumarac wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21548	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is determined to establish order in public immobility records. This is primarily because it increases the value of these immovableities that exist in Serbia, which is really big, and not, as someone here said from opposition parties, in order to introduce a tax on these immovableities. Namely, all immovable property owners, in particular private companies, factories, when they are registered and introduced into the immovableity cadasar, will be able to mortgage their facilities and receive mortgage loans based on which they will be able to obtain funds primarily to expand production, hire new workers, which is also the government's goal. This applies not only to privates who own factories, but also to owners of apartments and owners of agricultural land. Namely, they can also receive mortgage loans and buy, for example, cars, white techniques (if mortgage apartments are given) or, if agricultural land is given, some agricultural machinery. As you can see, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed accepted all well-intentioned proposals that were in the spirit of this law. This is seen by the DSS amendments, and we really think that the introduction of private practice is the right solution for this big deal to be done as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible and in the right way. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a commission headed by the prime minister and it is mentioned here today a lot; Mr. Prime Minister said that in three years, as it says in this law, first and foremost the cadastre of land will be translated into a catastrophe of immovableity, and that in cities the procedure will last a little longer. We've already formed commissions in the cities. The city of Belgrade has formed a commission headed by the chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic. Kragujevac, as Mr. Radosavljevic said, has already done a large part of it, 60-70%, so Kragujevac will certainly be one of the cities that will solve his immovableity cadastre. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, please, we all know who is responsible for the situation that exists in Kosovo and Metohija; however, I want to say that the new government, (the Federal and the Republic Government), has already reached an agreement with UNMIK. A Kastastar opera from Kosovo that exists and is preserved and located in Krusevec. The Republic Geodetic Institute is already co-operating with UNMIK and is performing from the land catastra are being accepted by UNMIK in the process of identification and evidence of ownership. Finally, I would like to say, first of all, about the finding of members of the former government that they had a Law that was passed in 1992; that is true, it was brought in 1992 and it is not true that private practice was in place. We only have two companies next to the Republic Geodetic Institute, which are Geopremer and Geoplan; one is in Belgrade, and the other is in Novi Sad, but these are social enterprises. There the procedure was so complicated that it was simply not possible to start private companies, and now we have seen it. It's possible with one geodetic engineer and three employees, and I'm sure it'll come to life real quick. In addition, you said that one of the reasons why it wasn't implemented under that law was the lack of funds. I'd like to remind you that in the same period, when there was no funds, when the salaries were really two or three marks, you assigned ministers two or three apartments. Maybe that's one of the reasons you didn't want to edit the books, so it could be seen that what was illegal was too. It could've been signed in. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21549	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State measure and cadastre and enrollment rights to immovable property, in general. For 119 against nine, two abstentions, 15, 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on Public Entrepreneurship and Obligation of Activity by the General Interest (principle debate) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vlatko Sekulović; Slobodan Pavlovic and Zarko Obradović; Radojko Petrovic and Rajko Baralić; Rade Bajic and Rajko Baralić; Golub Rajić and Slobodan Pavlovic; Miroljub Veljković; Bozidar Vukurović; Petar Jojić; Dragoljub Stamenković; Aleksandar Stevanović and Dragan Marković; Milos Lukić, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. At a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, MP Vlatko Sekulovic withdrew an amendment proposing that a new member of 12a be added after Article 12a. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. At a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, opinion was given by MP Jovan Todorovic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I would like MPs' groups to submit a list of registered speakers. I'm opening a principled search. I give my word to the promoter, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21550	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. The current law, meaning the law in force in public enterprises and the exercise of the general interest, was adopted in July 2000, on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 401. The company law, under which the public undertaking is the company carrying out the activity of general interest, which is established by the state, or the unit of local self-government. This article also stipulates that action of general interest can be carried out by other forms of enterprise, part of enterprises and entrepreneurs. In addition to the authority given to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the right, on behalf of the Republic, of the founders of public undertakings carrying out their activities of importance for the Republic, the law has been given the authority to grant consent to decisions and acts of public undertakings, the founder of which is a unit of local self-government or autonomous province, as well as other forms of undertakings carrying out activities of general interest. However, the application of this law has shown in practice that the functioning of public enterprises and other forms of enterprises that carry out a measure of general interest has been significantly slowed down due to the procedures necessary to be implemented in the process of granting consent. In addition, the objectives pursued by this Decision can be achieved in other ways and by other means. So, given everything in mind, we have made one proposal to amend the Law on Public Enterprises and to carry out the work of general interest. We expect that these changes will, above all, allow the control function in public enterprises to be the founder of the company. Where other forms of enterprise, part of undertakings or entrepreneurs are concerned, the control function shall be carried out by the Government, i.e. by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government or autonomous province, depending on whether that organisational form carries out its activity on the importance of the Republic or the unit of local self-government, i.e. an autonomous province. By the way, these changes proposed are heading towards a desire for decentralisation, for greater responsibility and for the powers to decide local self-government and, above all, in those segments which are vital to the functioning of cities and municipalities. We thus practically give the right to at local level all those who should have the most powers and responsibilities for the functioning of the local community with these amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and to carry out their activities of general interest really take that responsibility and authority upon themselves. Since the amendments that have arrived, we, as Government, have accepted a few amendments and adopted them. They entered the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the law. I expect that further discussions and debates will be more concrete things that can come to an order for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21551	I thank Mr. Secretary. Does MP Jovan Todorovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He's not present. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21552	Dear fellow Members, from an explanation for the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Enterprises, which he gave instead of Mr. Minister Aleksandr Vlahovic, an authorised representative, the current Minister of Trade, can be assumed the reasons for the adoption of such a proposal for amendments and addition of the Law. The SPS parliamentary group has certain objections to this proposal for a solution. She brought them out through the amendments. What is fundamental and what is crucial in our remarks is a certain inconsistencies of the reform government, which in one part of its powers given by the current law (which is the subject of this change) wants to pass on to the founders completely. This inconsistency is seen in the following. The government in the first eight members of the power it has under the law transfers to the founders, whether it is a municipality, an autonomous province or other founders. In other members, it retains its rights and competences, at least when it comes to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and this part, to control prices and price control, as well as to monitor the adoption of the work programme within the deadlines given by this law. The reasons set out in the explanation for this: "Besides, this provision is not implemented until the end, not only in terms of precise timing, but in terms of the conduct of the bodies of the local self-government, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia", and is considered in Article 1 for the erasure of Article 4. If precise deadlines were to be set, then it could have been done by precision of those deadlines, within which deadlines and in what way the government could and should do so. However, here was the eradication of this provision that allows these tasks, as I said, to be done by the founder in the first eight or nine members, and in others that the right to retain the government. It is also inappropriate for us to retain this price control ratio, at a time when everything is free, when it is liberal, when it comes from the side of the donation, when it has enough resources. I don't see any particular need for it to be under the strict control of the government, unless the government wants subsidies in that area, where profits are not made, where it is impossible to bring these services prices to normal. She also gave up competences, which is illogical, when it comes to joint ventures for several units of local self-government or for several municipalities. In fact, it is some companies that exist for several municipalities and are still present today. These are inter-municipal waterways, then inter-municipal waterways in construction, these are joint public enterprises, founded not only for one, but for several units of territorial self-government, for reasons of rationality. We will now have a situation to choose different authorities in different local communities, in which there can normally be opposition to a general common interest, which was valid until then. Who in this situation will arbitration, if not someone who is above these units of local self-government, and logically, it is the government or the competent ministry of the area. I think that part of the law, which treats it, should be kept in that old form or in cases of disputes between these local communities, should be found in a mechanism of arbitration, in a joint public enterprise. It is also threatened in this way and the construction of joint facilities. Who says that in the future there will be no need for a sanitary dump for more local communities, for more municipalities, for one larger territory, because we know it's expensive facilities or for recycling companies. They certainly can't be justified if they cover less than two million inhabitants. If it is not the city of Belgrade or the larger units of local self-government, it cannot be justified. So it would have to be done for multiple units of local self-government. I would also like to say, by adopting this law, by amending these amendments and by supplementing the law, I don't know whether a government regulation that restricts personal income and income in all public enterprises will be suspended, because this regulation is still in force? I don't know if it's meant for this law to cease to apply this regulation, which restricts the reception of all public enterprises; it was, of course, meaningful at the time of the sanctions, while the war threat was taking place in these areas. I think that for now, as we stand for the market, for competitiveness, for freedom of exchange of goods and goods, I see no reason to keep these regulations and this kind of regulation of matter today. That would be mostly about global, principled objections. They will be discussed more in detail and also in principle, MPs of the SPS Group will be presented with concrete details and details; we believe that these amendments and amendments of the law should not be adopted unless our objections and our amendments, which have been given to this law are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21553	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to reason, the proposal was to simplify something and avoid an empty walk, i.e. wasting time around various consents, which should be provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is another set of laws, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia publicly intends to allow local self-government to represent a certain form of self-government, and then when the provisions of the law and the way they have been changed are looked at more closely, it turns out that everything will be old and local self-government remains in the period of older minorhood; in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this opinion does not apply to an autonomous province, the local self-government is still unable to take care of itself and the jobs entrusted to it. Namely, a whole series of members of this bill - 1, 3, 4 and 5 talk about a specific type of public enterprise, i.e. a public enterprise that will be founded by two or more units of local self-government. It is about communal activities or actions that are important for the work of two or more units of local self-government. In the individual views of these members, which are members 4, 12, 14 and 15 of the basic text of the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia enters the amendments so as to completely erase the views that determine the fate of the public enterprise, the election of the president and members of the board of directors, directors of the company, president and members of the Supervisory Board, unless there is consent of the founders. We have tried amendments to completely change how to solve such a problem. In fact, there is a possibility (hard to exist, but there is a possibility) that the two municipalities agree to set up a municipal enterprise, which will carry out jobs of common interest. It's okay, but it's really hard to assume that they won't be able to agree after selecting the director, selecting the board of directors and supervisors, the chairman of the board of directors and supervisors, or that the founding act will not be adopted in the same text in both local self-government units' assemblies. There's now an unwarranted mix of the government, needlessly. If her goal is to achieve these changes and additions, to eliminate her participation in all of this, not to waste her time, then why not leave it to the founders? They will make a deal, or they will not. If not, then there will be no company. We have tried amendments to stop a legal provision that speaks of founders; so we say - the company is set up by two or more units of local self-government and there is a point; and the government says - if they do not agree on a founding act, that act is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? The government didn't even force them to build a joint venture. They decided it themselves, they solved it themselves, they set it up on the ground; they can't agree, there's no joint venture. Why would the government give them a natural solution? Why would the government give them a natural corporate director? Which means - because the government has so far been authorized to bring a solution to the disagreement of local self-government. Now the government says -- we shut ourselves out of this business and wipe out the possibility of the two municipalities starting a joint venture. Why are you erasing the possibility? What if there's some quarry that stretches on the Tetitorium of two municipalities? What if someone else's wealth that the municipality can use is spread across the territory of two municipalities? We're not going to set up two companies to exploit natural resources just because some boundaries of local self-government are drawn in one way or another. Why is it no longer possible for such a company to be established? I agree that the government should not judge, but it could have been a member of the law governing the establishment of the company to stop at a place where they would agree or not. With what the government has suggested, such enterprises are no longer available. I'm against it. Of course, this doesn't apply to an autonomous province. Now the government must enter the game it played last month or before last, it must respect the omnibus law, which, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has become the original jurisdiction of the autonomous province. There will be plenty of public enterprises now set up by an autonomous province and their work will no longer be affected by the government of the Republic of Serbia. You know, the other day, there was a company called Vojvodina. I don't know if the Duke was founded, maybe he already has. You know, there were excesses in the establishment of the Vojvodina State Enterprise. Yell you again God, but when you give little power to irresponsible people, they first watch how much their father bothers them, how old he is, whether he should be supported or might be a little more hurtful, so it'll be worth keeping his father in the house. What happens when a public company starts another company? What happens if Serbia's Elektroprivreda established, as it has, other companies? The government of the Republic of Serbia has no more management in these companies. Then, through these companies, funds will go out of Article 22 of the Law, which says that the annual programme will determine how much money will go for sponsorship, as much for propaganda and representation as for sports activities. You probably read in the paper what it looks like when a public company, supported by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, decides to finance sports activities. You've probably seen how much funding is being poured out through these companies. There's a lot of resources being poured out. To conclude, we are in order not to rule out the possibility of local self-government cooperating by completely dividing them across borders. If there was no right solution for the government to bring in an act, then leave them an opportunity to agree. If they don't get along, that company won't be. Don't take the government's powers out of large public enterprises, gigants, I would say, which will be for sale, which will start their own businesses, which finance the money of citizens of activities that citizens have not entrusted to them to finance and for which citizens have not given them money. All in all, I don't see the purpose of passing this law. I haven't even heard it in the explanation we've been listening to from this pay phone. I accept that the minister who explained the law was not ready, since he was not even determined to defend it against the National Assembly, but if there was any deeper, some hidden reason, it would be fair and correct for you to tell us here from the National Assembly's pay phone, that we would no longer lay down the old laws, claiming only that these few provisions of the law were an obstacle to Serbia's functioning properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21555	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21556	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, this small law is the continuation of a story about decentralisation. You know that the DSS, when it came to the Law on Local Self-Government, had solutions that were quite different from the original solutions in the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. the DSS advocated greater decentralisation and strengthened the potential of local self-government. This law is a small contribution to this, i.e. it is a compromise solution that the existing Law on Public Enterprises, in our opinion, is clean from unnecessary provisions which have increased administration and which have not done in any way what they were aiming at, which is to protect public interest. In fact, we believe that ato is an intensity everywhere in the world, and that is our definition, that local self-government is responsible enough to protect public interest; in rare cases, when there is no such protection of public interest, when we have some problems in the functioning of local self-government, this widespread state interest can be protected another way, not by these provisions on government granting consent to local self-government on documents, on installation. Surely there is no genuine strengthening of local self-government without the economic independence of local self-government. Local self-government must gain more independence in the fiscal sphere, which in some ways is happening, although not fast enough; the question now is whether it is a political decision or maybe a reality, but in any case in the fiscal sphere must be greater and greater revenues must remain units of local self-government. One form of this economic independence is certainly the possibility of the influence of local self-government authorities on business, on the work of public enterprises whose founder is. We believe that this is a solution that basically distributes public companies under the protection of local self-government, meaning that the founder of local self-government leaves to local self-government itself well, especially in line with a new solution in the Law on Local Self-Government on the function of the capital manager, about attracting different types of capital. That capital that is attracted may in some ways be linked to public enterprises, so that's a good solution. In any case, this provision on the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the distribution of profits that has been abolished was bad and good that it is abolished. Once again, it is certain that the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia to appoint directors and members of the boards of public enterprises, whose founder was a local self-government and autonomous province, was not a good solution and did not protect public interest. It was simply a bureaucratic procedure. I think she even burdened the government's authorities, or the ministry. Surely it can still be improved by liberalisation, to overcome the provisions now given in Articles 27 and 28 on price control. This should be done and that price control should be removed. All in all, this is a small law that makes one small step towards strengthening local self-government and general liberalisation in Serbia, so that the Democratic Party of Serbia has no major objections, so we have not even had amendments to this law and we will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21557	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the principle debate according to the application for word. The People's Messenger Bogoljub Zečević has the word, and the following is the declared Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another good proposal to amend and supplement the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We get at least two good things by law. First, the continuation of the decentralisation process. The government's consent to all important matters for the functioning of public enterprises, the founders of which are the municipalities, and in particular I would like to set out a consensus on the prices of municipal services, which was accepted by the government since it was proposed to the amendments of the MPs. Due to this restriction, public utility prices had low prices, which had a negative impact on the functioning, payment of salaries and other obligations, and of course on the quality of the services of these public enterprises. This specifically refers to the period from 1996 to 2000, when the Republic government deliberately did not give consent to the prices of municipal services where the coalition "Together" was in power, so that the local authorities would show them as incompetent. It forced local authorities to hatch in various ways to ensure the functioning of public enterprises and local authorities themselves. As a consequence of this, many municipal public enterprises today have accumulated losses from that period. I think local self-government should take advantage of this and all the benefits of these amendments and additions to the law, in order to stabilise the functioning and raise the level of services of municipal public enterprises. However, this is not to be stopped. Since it is generally known that the private sector provides far better services than state services, I believe that it should be started to privatise public enterprises where the municipalities are founders. The business performed by public enterprises, where it could immediately be privatised, is the maintenance of green areas, cleaning and washing streets, building maintenance and waste management. I believe that in the privatisation process of municipal public enterprises, not much has been done and that municipalities should work on the issue. Another good thing is the provisions of Article 9 of this Law, which discusses the annual business programme of public enterprises and adds part of the sentence that reads "elements for a comprehensive view of the policy of profit and employment in the company". In the previous period, we have witnessed that in the republican public enterprises, and I mean EPS, NIS, PTT and Railway, a large number of employees were admitted on the party or family line, which burdened the business of these public enterprises. I think this provision leads to the identification of an optimal number of employees in the Republic public enterprises, in order to reduce business costs and raise the quality of services. In addition, it is not fair for extra employees in social enterprises and banks to seek a new job and to protect employees in public enterprises. As for the provision of a member on the level of earnings in public enterprises, last year Minister Djelic said that payment classes, the truth about the state administration, would be introduced, and I think the same principle could be applied to public enterprises, so I would ask the minister if something would work on it. In any case, this is a good bill and the MPs of the Democratic Party will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21559	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21560	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm glad to see you for the second or third time in these 16, 17 months as Minister, and I'm sorry I didn't understand you very well, whether it's because of my colleagues or because you're having an unwise conversation. However, in any case, the proposal for this law cannot be called reform, because what kind of a bill is it if from 13 members of the law in seven places it says "is deleted". A law to be deleted was passed in July 2000, and one of the initiators of such a law was the very Serbian Radical Party, which, unlike my colleagues who were not even involved in politics at the time, did not know what it was, during their existence learned how to make abuses and how to get in the way, and the greatest abuses and robbery of the state was in public enterprises. I can tell you, Mr. Minister, that this law was a big problem for our coalition partners. We have not, since we have cut off sources of funding and abuse, especially for officials and members of the Yugoslav United Left or for a short JUL. Now you such a law, Mr. Minister, are erasing. I agree that in some parts decentralisation is necessary, but it is always important to take care of, Mr. Minister, what is obtained and what is lost. Before the law was passed, certain directors of public enterprises happened, so I'm going to say that from Požarevec there was one characteristic case that the company's director, who was also the president of the football club, had been caught by about 15 million dinars. It's a small amount of money to be stolen, say from the Oil Industry of Serbia and some major sports club, and it's in article 34 of the old law that you're erasing under article 12 of the new bill that says, "On the day of entry into force of this law, public enterprises and enterprises with the majority participation of state capital cannot pay off funds for sponsorship, donations, humanitarian, sports and similar activities, advertising, propaganda and representation, for the president of the board of directors, or compensation for the work of board members, etc.". It's erased, Mr. Secretary, so it seems to me again, if you're crazy enough, to arrest yourself, not you, but the members of this government, to arrest your directors of public enterprises at the border. It seems to me that here on the political scene now some new, with the same programming goals, party similar to JUL, one party that was exclusively interestingly connected, and this law allows such or one group of people to commit various abuses. Why is a member of the 34th Old Law, which is deleted, extremely controversial in the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21561	MP Arsic, I am under the obligation of the Rules of Procedure to interrupt you in your presentation, because your party's MPs left the hall the moment they saw on the electronic system that we had no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21562	Mrs. Comic, the MPs of the DOS have left, which is one hundred missing here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21563	I totally agree with you, and so according to the Rules of Procedure, do you want to continue or do you not want to continue? You're done with three minutes of time and you'll have rights within the time of your parliamentary group to take advantage of time. I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, and I ask that we determine if we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21564	I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21565	Therefore, by erasing this member, the possibility of abuse in the functioning of public enterprises is opened. This does not mean that the old law, Article 34, which is deleted by this proposal, could not have channelled public enterprises' funds for sponsorship, donations, humanitarian, sports and other activities. However, the government's consent was needed. As soon as you make one of these legal proposals, it seems to me that you in the government are slowly beginning to look back on each other. Because it is very easy for the party in power to appoint directors of boards, directors of public enterprises, board presidents, to give them consent. However, we must be aware that you are one of 18 parties and that this is the only bill you want to hide from each other what you're going to do. I believe that no law is perfect and that everything needs to be perfected and repaired, but this bill, in any case, takes a step back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21566	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Radojko Petric, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21567	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, is known to establish public enterprises in order to carry out the work of the general interest of the state, i.e. municipalities as a unit of local self-government. These are primarily electro-distributive enterprises, railway, postal and air transport companies, telecommunications, management, protection and promotion of goods in the water, roads, mineral raw materials, forests, information enterprises and particularly utility companies. So far, with the current provisions of this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been authorised to give its consent to acts and decisions by public enterprises, not only for public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia, but also municipalities. In other words, the main control function of public enterprises was carried out by the Serbian government. Due to the vastness of these affairs and to the lack of knowledge of the situation on the ground, the government could not always, in a timely and correct manner, react, which, due to the extended procedure, conditioned many of the activities of public enterprises, actually slowed it down on the ground. The government has now proposed certain changes that we are considering today, with an explanation that basic changes refer to the control function of public enterprises as the founder, not the Government. The explanation is good and acceptable if, in the proposed provisions, it is indeed as well arranged. On the contrary, certain provisions retain the control function of the Government, to the same or greater extent than it has ever been with the founders, and in the first instance this applies to public undertakings whose founders are municipalities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 10th and 11th said that the tariff, meaning a decision on public companies' prices, the founder of municipalities, gives consent, besides founders, and the ministry responsible for price transactions. This would be acceptable if legal provisions were regulated to intervene in the interest of ensuring the equal legal and economic position of all citizens with certain budget funds in order to ensure that certain services are approximately equal for all citizens. [[Sagar.]] Examples work, let's take water prices or heating. The first example for water; despite all measures of rationalisation and good organisation of municipal enterprises, objective calculations will show different prices of water for citizens in municipalities. There are different costs - whether water is distributed to consumers by natural decline, means gravity, due to the height difference in source and consumer sources, or by high electricity consumption is pumped to a certain height point; costs will also depend on the quality of water quality and what degree bacteriological, chemical and physical purifications are needed. The price of cubic meter water for citizens will also depend on the relative water consumption ratio by legal persons. In fact, it is known that the legal person's coefficient sets a higher price. So the price for citizens will be lower where the economy is stronger and vice versa. The situation is almost identical in heating; the price in the first row depends on the type of energy used in the power plants. Prices are different if gas, lube or coal is used; the price is also affected by distances from the energy supply site; especially at the price for citizens it affects and how much business space is included in the same heat. By way of higher coefficients for business space, one part of the costs to legal persons are over-loaded and lower prices are set for citizens. Because of the upfront citizens in the more developed centers, they have a lower heating price. The complaint refers to the fact that the Government proposed by this law that the competent ministry of price affairs, in addition to the founders, give consent to tariffs i.e. at a fixed price, and not providing any intervention funds in the form of grants, so that prices of water, heating and the like are approximately the same for all citizens in Serbia. Consider what kind of situation is created in the field when the government or the price ministry announces prices, and in certain municipalities where prices are above average there are no funds in the budget to be touched. Citizens resent and demand the application of average prices. For these reasons, the proposed provisions should be deleted so that the public utility company, with the consent of the municipality or its authorised authority, decides on the price of municipal services, I think in the first row on the price of heating and water; or even better to accept an alternative to the proposed provisions of Articles 10 and 11 remain, but with the addition that according to certain criteria of the Republic budget, it will provide donations to municipalities, in order to provide citizens with approximately the same legal and economic position. Next, Article 9. The proposal for this law was regulated to adopt long-term and medium-term work and development plans and an annual business programme. The annual business programme shows the elements for a comprehensive understanding of the policy of income and employment, as well as for the establishment of a public undertaking of municipalities, as well as for the annual business programme. It is too high a proposal that the provisional government of the Republic of Serbia can make public enterprises where the Republic of Serbia is not the founder determines the conditions and method of calculating the total amount of funds for earnings. Indeed, this provision should be amended and deleted from the bill. In addition to these objections to Articles 9, 10 and 11, I have objections to some other members, to whom the SPS MPs have submitted amendments; however, due to the limited time for discussion, this concludes my presentation, and a more complete explanation will be given when considering the law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21568	Thank you. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, and the next declared word is MP Golub Rajic. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic is not present. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21569	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and on the exercise of action of general interest, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These are another one in a series of amendments and additions to the law of the Government which calls itself a reform law and changes the Law on Public Enterprises and on the exercise of activity of general interest, which entered into force in 2000; they are governed by the way and conditions of the establishment and operation of public enterprises, as well as other forms of enterprises that carry out activities of general interest for the Republic, i.e. a unit of local self-government or autonomous province. This law, in addition to the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to exercise on behalf of the Republic the rights of founders of public enterprises of interest for the Republic, was given the authority to grant consent to acts and decisions of public undertakings whose founder of units of local self-government or autonomous province, as well as other forms of undertakings carrying out activities of general interest. The fact is that by applying this law for the past two years, especially those provisions containing government authority, the functioning of public enterprises has slowed down, primarily due to the procedure to be implemented in the process of obtaining certain consent. We well know that these companies are of particular social interest, they deal with matters of exceptional importance for citizens and that they must act quickly and efficiently, that there is very often no time to wait for consent, when it comes to programmes, prices or something else. This law proposes amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of general interest in this respect that the control function in public undertakings is established by the founder of the undertaking, and where other forms of organisation are concerned with the control function being carried out by the Government, i.e. by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government or autonomous province, depending on whether that organisational form carries out the work of importance for the Republic or the unit of local self-government, i.e. an autonomous province. In the members of this bill, from 1st to 8th, the government's powers to give certain consent are passed on to the founders of public enterprises, to the authorities of local self-government units, which is certainly good and is in the interest of local, municipal public enterprises. It is not good that Article 9 continues to empower the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate the conditions and method of calculating the total amount of income in public enterprises and companies that are the founder of the programme for the calendar year if they do not bring an annual business programme. Also in Article 10 of this proposal, attitudes should be deleted where the possibility of the ministry responsible for affairs also giving the price consent. The control function in public enterprises should be performed by the founders of the company, in the context of giving greater independence to local authorities in achieving general interest, while respecting local economic opportunities. In Article 11(2) and (3), the provision set out in Article 11(2) and (3) should be deleted. Proposal for a law contrary to Article 401(3). The Company Act, which reads as follows: "The establishment and operation of undertakings under Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with this law and the law governing the conditions and manner of performance of the general interest"; it is also contrary to the provision laid down in Article 103 of the Law, the part of which reads as follows: "The provisions of the Act of First (Common Provisions) of this Act apply to all forms of enterprise", as well as the provisions of Article 104 and as regards Article 103. The company law on the application of common provisions to entrepreneurs as well. The contested provisions of the Bill of Law and the other texts violate the standard of the Law on municipal activities, which reads as follows: "The price of municipal products and utility services provided by other undertakings or entrepreneurs shall be determined in the manner set out in Article 1". In this case, the disputed and other provisions of the bill define the standards of the Law on municipal activities, such as the back of specialis, which accurately determines how prices are determined in public enterprises and other forms of undertakings in the field of municipal activity. It is undeniable that the best known opportunity in local public enterprises is the founder of these companies, i.e. the competent authority of a local self-government unit. If the principle that the control function in public enterprises is established by the founder of the company is busy, then the question is rightly raised why the founder's capacity to make its own decisions on prices in the tariff system; to take care of the protection of general interest, respect for local economic opportunities and the situation of citizens, but also the material opportunities and economic strength of public enterprises as a service provider. It is absurd that the government in Belgrade or the price ministry will better assess or see what the price of municipal services is and how much price should be at my place in Negotin than the executive body of the local self-government unit, which must take care of the company as a service provider, as well as of users, citizens and their economic capacity to pay for these services. Therefore, this bill can be further improved by the adoption of amendments to the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21570	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic, and the next one reported for discussion is MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21571	First, it's declassified to bring these amendments and additions to the law for a number of reasons. The first and basic reason is that you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, have been announcing general privatisation for a year and a half. In general privatisation, you introduce rules that were previously applied and are characteristic of the self-management period. Secondly, for reasons of the decentralisation story that ends only as a declarative story and a declarative commitment to decentralisation. When it comes to the functioning of public enterprises, i.e. the Law on Public Enterprises, the real, essential decentralisation does not exist and does not exist. When it comes to public enterprises, essential decentralisation is at the level of local self-government. You don't have to ring the bell, I don't mind. It's not because earlier, by passing the Budgetary System Act, just to remind you gentlemen, in that law, you predicted that there was something called the central vault. The central vault, which controls virtually all public revenues made in Serbia's territory, is managed and decided by the director of the vault. Therefore, these revenues made by public companies are directly controlled, if not by the Director of the Central Treasury at the level of the Republic, and by the authorised person at the level of local self-government. What was done here by the promoter? Data are higher powers for the autonomous province when it comes to the availability of funds made available from the revenues of public enterprises, which is the founder of the autonomous province's assembly. Now watch what happens to you in practice. Since you have counter-sustained the jurisdiction of the Republic at the level of the province, how will you defend and defend what you are now predicting, that in some way there will be some way under control the revenues made in public enterprises at the level of the province? You won't be able to, gentlemen. You won't be able to, because reality, unlike your assumptions, is quite different. You lack a simple majority in the Assembly a number of votes. Those votes will always be conditioned by the fact that you fully transfer the information to the province when it comes to public revenues. Here's a best example of how this is available to public revenues, i.e. in the future, how it will be available to public companies at the level of the autonomous province. Last year, the budget of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina was 10 million marks, which is 300 million dinars. Did you gentlemen who were not only from the Vojvodina, but passing through the Vojvodina see that something had been built out of these funds? Did you see it invest somewhere? It's nothing, gentlemen. If the previous government hadn't built those bridges over the Danube and today they'd be moving from New Now to the other side of the Danube School. You're not a single investment, and 10 million marks is a big asset, gentlemen. You couldn't control the budget under the applicable law, and when it comes to their placement. How will you, gentlemen, control the funds and revenues generated by public enterprises, such as the Vojvodina? You won't be able to, gentlemen. You won't even be able to get the funds coming out of JP's "Vojvodvod" or any other public enterprise that's at the level of the province. You won't, because you will meet immediately with one harsh reality, which will blackmail you from certain parliamentary groups that are represented by their 5-6 votes. If the proposal is to simplify the procedure, then, gentlemen, why didn't you delete all the powers or possible government approvals, even when it comes to public enterprises? The statute must be approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't you go all the way and leave it to these public enterprises, or rather their founders, to determine the price level, and in this case the utility services? Why are you in control here? If you respect market economy rules, then release freedom, and in this particular case, if it is true decentralisation rights, leave freedom to local self-government. And no, you control their prices, you control them through the central vault, and you control the funds; how you control -- so that it doesn't turn out that we Serbian radicals memorized -- by law, which you've adopted, is allowed by the director of that vault to place free funds at all times, without question and without the consent of whoever made those funds. In this case, it's local self-government. Don't play, don't tell stories. If you want something, if you want to prepare public enterprises -- as you advocate -- for privatisation, then leave it to those public enterprises. Gentlemen, that way you'll be able to attract interested investors more easily. This is how you play. This is how you want to show that the previous government hasn't regulated it properly, and you're making it even more complicated. You're complicating yourself in that way, but you're literally making a trade because of a few votes in this assembly, and you're willing to do everything for a few of those votes, any amendments and additions to the law, which these few MPs give you by their vote. We don't have a quorum. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21572	We can also determine the quorum; I apologize. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21573	Dear People's MPs, there is today another law of the Government, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises; if the law wanted to implement decentralisation, to transfer power from the level of the Republic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the authorities of the local self-government and autonomous province, I think that only a little makeup has been made, and those main provisions remain, and also the levers, again in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If it is assumed that even so far, whether on a union proposal or on a proposal from a company body, certain members of the supervisory and management board of undertakings are confirmed in the Assembly, and are now doing the same, but the rest is the main one with the Government, that is, the price is still determined; the unit of local self-government, its bodies the Executive Board and the Assembly cannot, in the final outcome, determine the price of municipal services. There is still the agreement of the Republic Government Ministry, and if it is known that this price can be sought and waited to be approved after several months, and may not be approved, then you can assume in which position local self-government or company that expects that price. And in the end, it's impossible to even that price at the state level. If you take for example. public water and sewerage companies, in some small towns, need one pump to supply water, and in some cities it takes hundreds or thousands of pumps, and where there can be the same base and the same price for supplying citizens with water and sewerage. Even worse is the fact that it is with waste, urban transport, heat, because it is impossible to bring at the level of the Republic government the price and direct it to local self-governments to adopt it, when it is known that local self-government and its authorities are the ones who can most measure the level of prices that should have that public enterprise. In the congregations of these local self-governments there are also people who have been elected by citizens, and that is precisely what they chose directly, their goal is not only to defend the interests of businesses and their economic position, but also to defend the interests of citizens. Thus, these councilors in the congregations of cities or municipalities will in any case think carefully before raising their hand when it comes to raising the price of a public enterprise. But they will also not allow price levels to be so low that they question the technical provision of services to these companies to citizens. Because let me, if a technical system is destroyed by low and depressed prices and puts it in a situation that it cannot provide a service, then it takes far more money, not only from local self-government, but also from the level of the Republic, so that the system can be raised and that it can function. If this has been done in the past ten years, as you say, then they were fully justified reasons that there had to be some brakes in terms of utility prices and for reasons of sanctions, lack of energy, lack of ability to purchase equipment, which is for technical systems from abroad, and indeed something had to be done to simply prevent the monopoly position of public enterprises. But as you say all the borders have been opened, the barriers to imports and energy and spare parts have fallen, then there is really no need to shut down the right local self-government to determine the level of price it considers necessary at that time and for a given company. Because really, if today a public enterprise can form a price that citizens will be able to bear, and there is a brake for those chosen in local self-government, then there is no need for the ministry and the government to keep that provision and to say what prices it will be. Well, we are all aware that in Serbia's cities there are dozens of different average personal incomes and it is not the same in some environment where 3,000 is the average personal income and in some environment that has 17,000 average personal incomes, that the same utility services are paid. Let's say, it's now 32 dinars per person for taking out garbage, it's now 10 dinars for sewers or 15 dinars per square metre per 12 months for heating. Well, let me be clear, they are certainly not in the same position as citizens who have an average income of 3,000 and those in municipalities that have 17-20 000. Well, if it's not the same average personal income already, then it's impossible not to allow municipalities to form prices based on it, because the best they know what to do in public utility companies, which investment and technical maintenance should be undertaken in order for the system to be operational, and certainly they will be the ones to protect the interests of citizens. They're not going to let the citizens come to the community mass tomorrow because they've raised their prices enormously, are they? I'm sure he won't allow it. And secondly, where the government puts it again; it is said -- if an organisation or public enterprise does not bring in a programme and development plan for the current year, the government is obliged to dictate the level of funds to be used for profit. We Socialists believe that these are two crucial elements when it comes to allowing local self-government to determine at its level of price: that the government simply avoids the information when it comes to price levels: and the level of profits in businesses. That's why I think we're going to absolutely help these companies, and we certainly won't get the citizens into a situation that they won't be able to settle their obligations. For these reasons, we have submitted amendments to key members of this law. In the event of their failure, we will not accept the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21574	The word is given by MP Vitomir Plužarević (not present). The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21575	Dear People's MPs, I find it very uncomfortable to speak to a small number of MPs, but I address the citizens of Serbia. In the sea of these legislative proposals, reform as you say, this is one of the legal proposals that says that in this year and a half you've made such reforms that our economy is booming, that donations have come to such limits that we no longer know how much money from donor funds we need to invest in public republican and local enterprises, that everything is booming and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are waiting for one big perspective. You are talking about amendments and additions to the laws that were passed 10 years ago, for which you say it was not good, that it was communist and that it was bad, and so far you have passed almost three laws that talk about some reforms, such as privatisation, such as crossing from net to gross gross wages; Serbian citizens now have large incomes that, you say, are bordering themselves with high processes at the level of European countries to which you are calling, with over 200 marks in gross amounts per person's head; so you say that such a legal proposal opens up great perspectives. All I can say is this is about transferring rights to local self-government. Understandably, municipal public enterprises in the area of protection of citizens should also have rights transferred from the republican authorities to local authorities because you have so regulated a number of legislative proposals that the right to transfer to local self-government is regulated. However, local self-government in the area of municipal public enterprises does not have some authority, but only for the purpose of protection, to say it is municipal and not national. In the previous term, when it was in power, the SPS adopted certain amendments and amendments to the law, depending on the moment it was socialised. The 2000 law tried to protect citizens, as Serbian citizens have been at the edge of the existence over the past few years, which was not caused by a system of government and by the unhappiness of certain legislative and executive authorities, the Community and the Government of Serbia, but because the external factor had a major impact on the economy and state of the country. For this reason, the Republic government also proposed a previous assembly of the Republic Assembly passed the law in 2000 to protect citizens and to speed up their lives. With this draft law, you are proposing the competences that local self-government should have of municipal public enterprises in the domain for which they are responsible. However, it is that our municipal public enterprises, starting with municipal enterprises, thermal systems, directorates for the construction of municipalities and other systems, cannot live alone. I think you should help in that domain you left in the bill, that the Republic Government can control the functioning of municipal public enterprises through the competent authorities. Therefore, I believe that the donations that have come here should be invested in those enterprises of municipal interest, where they should be able to be machinery, by capacity, and also by function. For this reason, and such a small number of amendments submitted by SPS and the SRS were in the role of improving this bill. In essence, the right to tell you, a series of these sessions bothers the citizens of Serbia, and I think that all these proposals, amendments and additions to these laws that you are proposing, should be removed, disbanded, and call elections, because that is the only solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21576	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. (Not present) The word has a People's MP, LjubomirMucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21577	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I'm destined to seek the quorum, to postpone and be the first again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-14-0.u21578	You got the word and it was a quorum when you got the word. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work and ask MP Ljubomir Mucic to return and insert his card. As the MP Ljubomir Mucic asked us to check if we had a quorum, otherwise belonging to the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MPs Vladimir Garčević, Zoran D. Nikolic and Bora Stanimirovic came out, I give him notice for violating Article 117 and on the basis of Article 103. I'll do it again tomorrow, and now we're taking a break. Goodbye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that the official record of 150 MPs has reported their presence at the entrance to the O.R. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Petar Misic, Zivanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Živko Selaković, Vojislav Dosen, Neda Arnerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Miomir Tadic, Zoran Mićović, Zoran Bošković, Visnja Nežić and Olgica Kircanski; the delay was announced by Kermeci Karolj and Ružica Veljović. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I welcome the guests present. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Entrepreneurs and Obligation of Activities by the General Interests (Principal Search) The word has a National MP Ljubomir Mucic, and after that, Lazar Marjanski.
