ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20671	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 81, which says the National Assembly begins at 10.00 hours. Here, it's 11.15. It's also scheduled a break from one hour, from 14:00 to 15.00 hours. We never started work before 4:00. The president of the assembly needs to tell us why we're late every day, on average we lose two and a half hours. The Serbian Unity Party is on time and we'll be here at 10.00, we'll wait 15 minutes, if the session doesn't start, we'll get out of the O.R. and we won't enter until the quorum is secured. We'll also work during the break. We'll be there at 15.00 hours, put in our cards and wait until 15.15. This is a shame to lose a week's workday every week. Someone needs to be held accountable. It's a big number in the money, when you recalculate the number of days we've lost since the start of this new session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20672	Thank you. All I can say is I'm calling on the other MPs to be on time. I also have to say that nowhere in the world, in any parliament, doesn't start exactly on time because this isn't a factory, there's a committee work. In other parliaments you have a special day set for the work of the board, there is work of parliamentary groups, other activities, political consultations; therefore, this cannot be measured by the work of a factory. Yet this is a completely different kind of work. (Markovic, from the post - put on the vote that article 81 has been broken) That he was hurt? I don't break it. I'm here in the Assembly every day about 10.00 hours ago. I can't make a suggestion to break the Rules of Procedure. I am putting the motion to vote that MPs violate Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 42, against 22, a abstentioned one, was not voted 94, out of a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to violate Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Miomir Tadic, Zoran Boskovic, Golub Rajić, Momcilo Trajkovic, Stevan Gudurić, Vojislav Dosen, Dragoslav Bošković, Boško Ničić, Milan Ernjaković, Srdjan Sikimić, Petar Mišić, Sredoje Mihajlov, Miroslav Martić, Dragan Kovacevic, Branislav Pomorički, Natasa Milojevic, Branislav Grubački and Branko Gligorić ( this afternoon). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. One brief notice: The 33rd session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held at 1400 hours in Hall I on the ground floor, proving that the National Assembly is working at the time of the break and that therefore there is a delay. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE UNIVERSITY (specificities) I remind you that we have interrupted the debate on the proposal for a law on the university in particular during the review of the amendment to Article 141 which was submitted in the same text by the MP, Prof. Dr. Velimir Simonović and MP Petar Jojic. Is there anyone else who has not used his right under Article 138(2)? Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? Minister of Education Mr. Gašo Knezevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20673	Since the debate over Article 141 and the amendment to this article has been quite heated, which in some ways is contrary to the law-makers' intensities, I think it is necessary to remind the MPs of what this member's goal is and to what extent the retroactivity here is present and finally on the text of Article 141 adopted by the Government and which is now an integral part of the law, which is now proposed by one MP, Mr Predrag Stojanovic. So, the previous text of the government was revised. Something about legislative history -- this text proposed by the promoter was initially, as the lawyers would say, negatively formulated. According to the text, all the elections that began under the procedure provided for by the 1998 Law, so to speak, were automatically under review. This was the initial position of the promoter. So the initial position of the promoter is a negative legal formulation, which resulted in all elections being made since 1998, from the law's entry into force to the change, falling under the revision procedure automatically. In the law-making process, I said, we have consulted with individual parliamentary groups. Among other parliamentary groups at one of the meetings were representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Don't hold me by my word, a three-member or a four-member delegation. At that time, they suggested that the negative formulation should go into positive, so that only on the initiative of certain persons could the audit process be activated. The ministry that was the creator of this law felt that this was also a sufficient condition to maintain a critical attitude towards the law procedure introduced in 1998 and agreed to the formulation. In return for representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the meeting said it would accept such a formulation because it is the only member of 141. The law will be the eyes. After that, Mr Predrag Stojanovic's proposal came, which was further pacifised by article 141. It's your current state of affairs. Article 141 is pacified - at the Department's initiative (and the Department represents the most professional body at university, university) or dean in charge of protecting the law, if it is accepted by members of the teaching council, as at which university, as it exists, the review procedure can be accessed regardless of when the selection is made, if it is carried out by the 1998 procedure. So, if he was executed without the opinion of the Scientific and Educational Council. It's the only instinct. The only intensities are that the teaching-science council is wondering about something that has been asked for centuries. It's the only thing that's been intensities and no one's head is going to fall off. If that's true, I'll give you some arguments that are legal. The provision of Article 141 is not in the general part of the law but in the transit provisions. Transient provisions are time-limited and therefore the systematization itself indicates a temporary character, but we are not satisfied with it, but we are saying that the deadline is two months. If no one initiates within two months, the matter is over. A man elected under the 1998 law procedure remains in his title. So, only if someone initiates the problem. If he doesn't initiate, no one, thank God, will touch anyone, because he's legitimately chosen for us, no matter what the procedure was, in our opinion, no matter what, if the university doesn't initiate, nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20674	Mr. Minister, I'm warning you of an exaggeration of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20675	I'm sorry, I'll be brief. The choice can only be revised pro futuro, so all the exams and everything that has been done remains in force, we have no technical problems and is finally being examined according to the conditions of competition that existed at the time of the competition. Finally, a provision (I don't think you've read it carefully, and this is the current bill and I read it to you from there) - unless the teacher and the associate are selected for a certain calling in the review process. Therefore, if the audit is applied, they shall have the right to remain in the previously acquired calling until the end of the election period. There's no radicalism here, there's no rematch here, let's be realistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20676	Mr. Jojic, you've had your word on this amendment. You didn't mention it. Is anyone else answering for the word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to article 141 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Velimir Simonovic and Petar Jojic. For 37, v. 118, abstention one, did not vote 16, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 141st amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20677	Dear People's MPs, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party proposes that Article 141 in the current proposal for a law on university be deleted, except for Article 6. Just to remind the MPs and the general public, that this member in the current bill provides for a retroactive review of all elections in higher calling, which occurred during the 1998 Universal Law. We suggest erasing this member for several reasons. The first and most important reason is that this article is counter-constitutional. It is true that under Article 121(2). Serbia's constitution of certain provisions may have a feedback if it is injured, it says, of general interest. However, we do not see where the general interest is injured here. Yesterday the actions of one or two deans were mentioned here; I don't know, I don't have the facts on which to assess the actions of these deans and I can't make any comment, but I guess the actions of one or two deans can't hurt the general interest and the actions of individuals can't possibly be a reason to violate the Constitution. Secondly, there is also a rematch against certain deans who were in a position to implement the 1998 University Act. We believe that individual unrest should lead to thousands of other people who have been elected to higher calling in that period. Third, the 1998 Law was passed in the same room by the same National Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The second question is whether the law was good or not? It could be discussed, but it was the law. As Mr. Minister said earlier, the dean's obligation was to obey the law. Fourthly, the position of the 3rd member is being amnested by those deaners who have been acting against the law during the 1998 University Act. In our opinion, those who have worked against the law should not be amnesty and punished by those who have acted under then applicable law. Fifthly, perhaps most importantly, all those teachers and associates who were elected to multiple titles during the 1998 University Act were not elected to these higher callings for life. All of these teachers and co-workers have a re-election, i.e. re-election. Some already have, some are in progress, some will be in a year. It's not clear what the rush is. If these people don't meet the conditions for selecting higher calling under this new law, simply, they won't be chosen and please nice. Why is someone in a hurry here right now? Therefore, Article 171 does not have any constitutional, if you want no moral basis. Obviously, he was created as the product of a political decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20678	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have now heard the argument of the Prime Minister for the amendment, which is - the least or most Pacific, since the minister of the University Law uses the word that the parties would like to wage, I don't think the university bill can be pacified, because it wasn't, I guess, warlike -- a normal bill that can be amended and amended, but it can't be Pacificed. If you say he's been pacified now, that means you were really in a wartime mood at the time you wrote the basic bill on the university, and that's what you see by Articles 141, 142, 143, etc. What's wrong here? First of all, there's no deadline for the dean and the department to conduct the review procedure. It's a two-month deadline for the council to decide on a proposal for review. The dean and the cathedral are not limited by the deadline. It's the failure of the one who wrote the amendment and the one who accepted the amendment. Next, what does calling for disrespect of the law mean? Item 3: "The proposal for a review is not possible when it comes to the selection procedures in which the election council has already participated". They weren't in charge at the time of the law. You can't call them competent election councils, because they weren't in charge back then. They're in charge now. Now all teachers participate in the election as election council, even co-workers when choosing an associate, but at the time of the law's entry into force, it was not a competent election council. They didn't even meet. Maybe they were meeting somewhere as groups of teachers and declaring it some kind of session, making decisions. I know it was, too, but you can't admit it as a legal practice at a time when the law didn't apply at all. In other words, you are repealing the 1998 Law, in a Pacific way, you are leading us to think and to actions in the future; to the idea that by law, passed by the National Assembly in 1998, whose composition you did not like, you are undoing the will of the voters, which is reflected through the votes of the MPs; you cannot say it clearly and aloud, but by accepting this amendment; and you are leading us to actions to do all this when the power is changed. Is this now for the academic public favorably and positively, that everyone is terrified of changing power? The predecessor only made one mistake: it is that re-elections are ongoing, but regular teachers have no re-election. They don't have these procedures. This also applies to regular professors. You're saying they're not going to conduct the procedure for the check, only if the dean or the cathedral does so. Well, that means you're going to carry out the procedures, you just determined who's going to request a retrial. You will conduct a procedure for all, the only thing you will not do for those who have now run into your ranks, have joined your political parties. This is discriminatory law. I know everyone has the right to say that one government wasn't good. That's how you fight to come to power. But to say that the congregation was not good, and the law was passed by the Assembly. This wasn't a government regulation, this wasn't a decision, this was a law passed by the Parliament. To say that the Assembly was not good, to question the Assembly, it can do so in some other regimes, but Serbia has been a largely democratic country for 11 or 12 years. You will now step down and what we have barely fought for these 12 years, since 1989, by kidnapping communists piece by piece of freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20680	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, it is certain that members of 141 and 144 are the two most controversial members in this entire law. When she was at the SPS's meeting, at the request of the minister, when he wanted to discuss the law, which is fine, we just insisted on these members. And then we said, and now we're saying -- if we accept the amendment to these two members, or now Article 141, because the 144 is accepted, we'll vote for this bill, regardless of all the weaknesses we've been pointing to during this debate. However, it is not possible to cross this law, Article 141, where it has so much retroactiveness, regardless of which amendment has been tempered. Secondly, we made a breach of the Rules of Procedure yesterday, when we first voted on Professor Stojanovic's amendment, not on amendments to MPs who asked for erasure. That's what it says in Article 146. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If it's already made a precedent, that's why we're now in an absurd situation and some are asking what we're talking about right now, if this is accepted. Why is that accepted if it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure? But let's put that aside. I just want to say a few more words about this. We passed the Law on Amnesty of Terrorists who killed our people, and we introduce retroactive law for university professors. It's nowhere in the world. To get someone to the university professor, you know what the procedure is and what the choice is. A colleague recently mentioned in his discussion that if there was a mistake, there was a law, the ministry had the possibility of correcting you beyond this law. Secondly, there are other regular choices, where that error can be corrected. Third, do not consider this to be about MPs, or opposition professors. On the contrary, over 80% of people are mostly in power today, I mean university professors to which this law will apply. Therefore, we do not say that for those reasons. The main reason is -- it's just amazing that we swear on some democracy, some transparency, and we introduce retroactivity for university professors. We couldn't do that in any small organization where there are fewer workers, where the structure is completely different, regardless of the weaknesses in that law. We didn't challenge the socialists, there were several members of the weakness, and there may have been some mistakes, but in order for someone to come to a teacher's call, the expert commission, whose members have the calling of a regular or extraordinary professor, based on a contest to write a report. Who's that regular professor at the university who's going to write a report to those who don't deserve it. It is so rare that it does not deserve to be discussed in this congregation at all. Furthermore, if it were regular professors, the Ministry of Regular Teachers only gave an opinion on whether anyone could be a regular or remain an extraordinary professor. Professor Gašo Knezevic himself admitted that he also signed 80 solutions for regular professors. So he used the same law. Why do we have to question now what Mr. Gašo Knezevic was doing, and not just him, but all the ministers before that? In this whole thing, we create such a dissension at the university, in colleges, that there will be more damage than a cross from this Article 141; because, there is no teaching, no science, there is no teaching, there is no teaching at the university if now, after the adoption of this law, we should go to some hack at university professors who think differently; it will cause such conflicts and such treasuries that the consequences will be felt by students, not teachers. That's my argument, gentlemen, which is why I advocate that this member be abolished, because it is simply immoral to insist on it, especially what I say, and that's why the minister mentioned, that there will almost be no professors to whom it will apply, because the teaching-science council has largely examined all of this from October 5th to this day. One more thing, starting from criticizing the 1998 law, we have done practically according to applicable and invalid laws, according to the Ministry of Education and Sports. There was a so-called. two powers or three powers; it was done under the 1992 Law that didn't exist; it was done under the 1998 Law that we didn't recognise and we did... (President: Mr. Stanimirovic, seven minutes, I warn you of overtime. )......................................................................................................... Under 2002 law, which has not yet been adopted. You can see what the situation is, what relationships at the university have been like over the past year and a half. I therefore appeal, ladies and gentlemen, that, no matter what, we accept the amendment that the colleague has submitted, so much before the parliamentary club (just a moment, I will not report on this second amendment if you accept, just to finish the sentence), the SPS MPs in some way, by submitting this amendment to Article 141, have deleted this amendment in general, except Article 9, which is why they have admitted some of the mistakes that have been made, which is that teachers and co-workers whose working relationship has ceased independent of their will can return to work. We were talking about some...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20682	Mr Stanimirović, I thank you, but it is indeed the eighth minute, you have exceeded, and by Article 138, you have the right to talk about the amendment at most for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20683	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20684	Anybody else answer for a word? The president of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20685	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, from the the the thesis that retroactiveness, which we deny, in this article is anti-constitutional, we have come to the conclusion that the existing Constitution leaves the possibility of a retroactive fact in a situation where the general interest is at stake. We as MPs now need to first assess whether the general interest of this society is effective, modern and politically unburdened university or whether the general interest of this society is the status quo of the university. I think this is quite indisputable. The fact that the application of this member will be a rematch at the university is unfounded because it is clear that those titles and titles, which have been obtained by applying the 1998 Law, will be reviewed only in situations in which colleges themselves decide to do so, their electoral council. The election council, we have concluded, makes it very clear that all teachers and associates. So, not us as politicians, not this Parliament, but our role is very important in leaving such a possibility. A very serious remark was made during yesterday's debate, when some concrete examples were mentioned, with the conclusion that they were individuals. The essence of the example is actually to point to an existing trend. I remind you that I was merely referring to a situation that was present at a university where the dean decided to abolish the department and thus irritate both teachers and students, in such a way that it was impossible to organise classes for six months. I mentioned an example of a grotesque college whose students and teachers organized teaching outside the university building. We often speak without a name in our performances, and we resent that in this way we accuse and blame everyone’s addresses. This time, I did not want to only Anathemise those two people, but it is clear that only at Belgrade University, without the call of professors and assistants, has 200 people left. At the same time, it is clear that the deans suspended both the rights of both the departments and the teaching councils, taking on themselves the exclusive freedom to assess the validity of prominent candidates in the process of the appointment of professors and scientific associates. The commissions that existed were, in fact, just a pseudoform of that absoluteism, because the dean was a person who had a crucial influence on the composition of the commission. I think that we have a duty to enable colleges to solve these problems ourselves and that we have no reason to doubt the competence of teaching and scientific councils, nor in advance to self-indict ourselves with the claim that this is an act of political rematch because it actually doesn't stand that way. In addition, you are given a retroactive situation where the general interest is at stake, because what is more important interest than the interests of an effective and normal university? Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment, although it is clear that by reviewing the application of everything that has been done at the university so far, it is actually difficult to avoid those political connotations that are present in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20686	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you go. Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20687	I'll be shorter this time. I'm obliged to answer a few questions. Mr. Toma Nikolic asked for a deadline. The deadline is absolute and objective. So everything goes on within 60 days, it's absolutely clear. Second, right, I signed about 80 appointments for regular professors, but I had to sign, and I was bound by the law. Prior to that, the procedure was carried out through the electoral council. So that's the difference. What I was putting out the numbers for, that's to say that in a year, from what I had the right to sign, I signed 80, and in the previous year it was 200. I even relativated the thing, so I said, maybe he was giving people a deadline, but the disproportion is obvious. Maybe someone came in and shouldn't have. I remind you, for example, of the dean who was signed by the minister on October 4th, don't drag me by the tongue, please, to be a regular professor, and has previously chosen himself from calling an extraordinary professor. That's what he's accusing. If everything was correct, what was the reason for fear, what was the reason why, because the decision was made by an election council, which consisted of a professor in the title chosen above, no one else. So the decision on promotion is not made by the Serbian government, so that it can be said that there can be politicisation; here no. And finally, I just have to draw your attention just as a lawyer, you don't have to consider it, but this amendment is legally impossible, because it refers to a text that has already been processed by the amendment of Predrag Stojanović. (Pal Shandor, from the place: and they are all legally impossible. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20688	You've been answering for the word on this amendment for word? Are you answering as a representative of the parliamentary group? What? (He speaks to Tomislav Nikolic. He just answered you, 40 days is a deadline. You have no right to a replica, but come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20689	I have the right to a replica. There's no--you don't, but come on. I don't even like what I have, so come on, you don't, so I don't like this either, so come on, you do. I'm obviously entitled to a replica. Mr. Minister, I'm trying to understand that you must defend this amendment, as you must defend the bill. Paragraph 6 clearly states - the competent electoral council shall decide on a proposal for review within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. (Gasho Knezevic, from the scene: After 60 days he can no longer.) ) Okay, but that's why in the eighth position, in the ninth, you made it clear - decisions on taking teachers or associates from another university remain in force if the competent university confirms them or does not challenge them within 60 days. That's what this was supposed to look like. Okay, but it's unfortunate that this amendment has clearly potentiated retroactivity, and we have not established an interest in the retroactiveness of this member. When you read the previous position - a teacher or co-worker of the university, who before the entry into force of the 1998 Law of the University was elected to a teaching term, realizes the rights and obligations in accordance with this law - it is completely unclear. If he achieved it before 1998, calling and losing it in 1998 after the then applicable law, you are now returning him to the calling he had before 1998, which means that you are repealing the provisions of the law that was in force for almost four years. Someone was an emergency professor before 1998, and in 1998 he wasn't elected, and now he's back in business as an emergency professor. It was a provision of a law that was retroactive and had to be established a general interest in it being retroactive.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20690	Since there are no more entries for the word, I would like to put the amendments submitted by MP Predrag Canovic to article 141. For 47, against 108, the abstentioned were not voted 19, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 141st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Stevan Guduric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20691	Now, Mrs. Micic, you would really be right to say that this amendment cannot be discussed. (Pal Shandor, from the scene: and about the others.) He can talk about the others, he can do it. We have come to the point that a single amendment has completely altered the content of one member of the bill. Now the amendments to that original text are no longer valid, but amendments that say that the article is deleted are in force. They can be discussed. So to explain, as if now we are asking to delete this proposal, because the Rules of Procedure has been so brought that the amendment, which, on behalf of the Government, brings one MP after the deadlines, when the deadlines for the amendment expire, and he brings it in a minute before the deadline, comes to us as a bill, and we have no right to make amendments. That's why we're disabled in a procedure that has to be legal. That's why I agree that we're allowed to discuss it. Because if that amendment requires a member to be deleted, then we'll discuss it, and we want to erase what's proposed as an amendment, that's fine. But to discuss changing something that doesn't already exist in the text of the bill, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20692	I already gave an explanation yesterday. So, the amendments are in the process and no one is authorized now, except for the applicants of the amendment, to withdraw them. What can they still do with amendments that are factually immaterial? If no one's answering for the amendment anymore, I'll put it to the vote. For 29, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 33, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dragoljub Vojnovic and Vladimir Dobrosavljevic together submitted the 141st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20693	I've come out to say that this amendment is immaterial. I'd like to say something else, in the reworded Article 141st position 9 stands - the decision to take teachers, that is, co-workers from another university. We suggested that article 89 be deleted, so that this would not be done, Mr. Secretary would not accept it. Now we're gonna have the same problem. That's all I wanted to say, otherwise it's pointless to discuss an amendment that's been completely amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20694	Are you withdrawing that amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20695	What can I do? I'll stay on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20696	You're staying, so is anyone else answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20697	I will take the opportunity to discuss this amendment, as there is a very similar provision in the amendment that has been accepted by the Government and which has become an integral part of the bill. In fact, the amendment was submitted to Section 3 which predicted that someone who had been elected under a law that was in force admits that he had been elected. First, whoever was elected under the law that was in force, he was not elected, and now the one who was elected by the law that was in force, he was elected. How can I explain it any closer? So, the commission suggested that someone be elected. The dean signed the solution, he was elected. Now the law says, that's not true. If most professors have also been declared to be elected, even though the law did not provide for it, it is now considered normal and legally made a choice in calling. It is the legislator who directs each of his provisions that we jump into our mouths and undo what the congregation has brought ourselves. I remind you, the Assembly is a Assembly, regardless of personnel. You are MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as were those who voted for the 1998 University Law. You should be proud of them, as some new ones will be proud of you. They won't agree with your decisions, but they know there are at least 60,000 voters behind each of you. Now, a new provision, to which we should have had time to give amendments to separate teachers and associates who have been elected strictly under the law; they are going to be questioned, unable to participate in the work of election councils, new election councils. Teachers selected under the 1998 Law, which were declared to be no longer an election council, can participate in the work of election councils, and that is clear. He says -- teachers and associates who were elected at the time of the 1998 University Act, whose election was attended by a competent electoral council (repeatedly, there was no competent electoral council) took part in everything, in the work of election councils according to these titles. So teachers elected at the time of 1998 can participate in the work of election councils, now, under new law, and other teachers, elected at the time of the 1998 law, cannot. So don't be so discriminatory; for the general public, and I'm counting myself into these people, the university professor is still something I don't like to play with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20698	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20699	I owe two explanations, one is - there's been a distinction on the application of the procedure. If the procedure with the election council is applied, there's no fear anything will happen. And if it's not a procedure... I know, but many deans, aware of the passing of time, have kept all the old institutions, and it's very important and signals what was happening in the consciousness of the university and their relationship to the law. That's right, unfortunately, that's a fact. My law school didn't do that. And secondly, it concerns the proposal from the DSS. I've spoken to the MPs. In fact, their intensity is correct - the taking of teachers is an institution, which may slightly doubt the full justification of this takeover in relation to the quality of teaching. We're going to seriously think about easing the effects in some way. For technical reasons, he couldn't be accepted then, and now, as a consequence, he's the only logical withdrawal of the amendment, but whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20700	Since there are no more applications for this amendment, I am putting the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 82, the abstentions were not voted 37, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 141. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that individual provisions of Article 141. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 138(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions for which a feedback is provided for, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall, in particular, decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Committee on Education, by accepting the amendments of MP Predrag Stojanovic, which amended Article 141 and which became an integral part of the Bill's proposal, found that Articles 1, 4, 9, 10 and 11 of the Law had a feedback effect and assessed that there was a general interest in this feedback. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provisions of paragraphs 1, 4, 9, 10 and 11 of Articles 141. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 100, against 48, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the provisions of those positions of Article 141. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20701	Mrs. Micic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, and I refer you to Article 46. Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, one of which reads: "The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, the second regulation and the general act, which is addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system". You have invited us here to vote on the general interest to accept the provisions of a member, which are retroactive, at the recommendation of the Education Committee. I warn you - The Education Committee is not appropriate to determine whether something is retroactive and to suggest establishing a general interest in this. This is the exclusive jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. You have a duty here to tell us the position of the Legislative Committee on this matter. Let me inform you -- whoever starts the initiative in front of the Constitutional Court will have to wait for a report from the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be addressed by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, when it exists in Serbia, when Serbia is a legally regulated state. Here, too, the Sports Committee could, since it is the minister of education and sport, say it is seeking to establish a general interest and approve retroactiveness for this member. You can do anything, but please, this book that you keep supplementing with practice, what it is, respect it while it's written. You hurt the Rules of Procedure roughly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20702	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because neither the Legislative Committee nor the Education Committee nor the Sports Committee, which does not otherwise exist, decide whether there is a general interest, but is responsible for this, according to a member of this Rules of Procedure, who we are trying to respect; Article 138 paragraph 3: "When the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly will specifically decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback". Only the National Assembly is competent to decide, but no committee is. If you're not happy with the answer, I can put this to a vote. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I want to vote. You want to vote, okay. I put to vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure, carried out by MP Tomislav Nikolic, but did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Article 46.) So it's Article 46 that the Legislative Committee was responsible for that. It means that this was to be decided by the Legislative Committee; that's not what it says in Article 46. I'm putting this motion to a vote. For 47, against 82, the abstentions were not voted 36, a total of 165 MPs. The National Assembly has made a decision not to injure Article 46. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Stojanovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs Velimir Simonovic, Predrag Canovic and Aleksandar Vukic. The Government and the Education Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20703	We in the SRS, of course, considered members of 141 and 142 as one member, because it is the same matter, which actually regulates the reckoning with all those who respected and implemented the 1998 Law. I have already warned you in the discussion of article 141 that you were participating professors selected under the 1998 Law, on the basis of which college they were elected, whether or not the university had some sessions of teaching councils. These sessions of teaching councils, which were not a condition for calling, are now retroactively recognised as the only relevant and in these cases you will not deal with (this is now your election council) by reviewing. You will review the decisions made by the deans you claim to be, or perhaps it is true, that they do not belong to your political option, that they may have acted according to the belongings of the political party they represent there, but that is all about you. Just tell me that there's a man who doesn't think politically, and I'll tell you that whoever says that the milk is expensive, and that's why he's grinding his teeth, he's thinking politically. Just tell me you have a dean or a professor who has no political orientation and I'll tell you that's not true. Just tell me that the minister, while he was a professor, was not in any political party and was not representing the views of his political party, I will tell you that it is not true and I condemn no one at all because it belongs to the political party and represents its views. But I can't condemn a man who has a law in front of him, who acts in accordance with the law, and after two or three years of saying, well, now we're going to question your behavior in accordance with the law, just because it's you. If there was a commission to select a regular professor, composed of three regular professors, if there was a position of the cathedral, and there was always, if the dean was only the one who signed the solution, as Mr. Minister says, if even the minister signed that solution, approved the choice, he could have stopped it, too, he could have approved - what does that mean? If those who are the most professional in the subject in which the teacher is elected give their opinion on it, should 50 other people in the area not be professional enough? You know that very well. How will the election council vote? According to political orientation? He won't appreciate the profession. First of all, it's not appropriate. Which professor will accept that the other professors' opinions on him are proportionate? And to agree with that, to say, yes, I didn't deserve to be a professor, that's what other professors say. Don't fool around here. How's that man gonna feel? What do students who have laid down with these professors do? What about the evaluation? What about the salaries we gave these teachers? Can the country go back four years and go like it wasn't the 1998 Law? He can't. You can't take the ground back. If you make those who defeat you, one day someone will beat you, behave like you do. Will they then jump the democratic West in the defense of the persecuted? It will. While you were in the opposition, your mentors launched news of a skillful, judgmental conviction, a list of undesirables abroad, just because they think politically here. You are now worse dictators than Serbia has ever experienced in 12 years. Why isn't the government judging you now? All that's going on under your authority is export democracy. Such democracy is what the West wants to introduce to us in Serbia. How about that with them? Can a law be passed with them that will say -- all who have been convicted of terrorism in the last three years are released. Is there a country in the world that would pass that law? Is there a country in the world that would pass the law and say - all selected professors are subject to review.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20704	Mr. Nikolic, time and theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20705	I'm done. If it was Wednesday, it's not subject to questioning. Only people who don't have brains can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20706	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 26, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that individual provisions of Article 142. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 138(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, decide in particular whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provision of Article 2(2). The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 103, against 43, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 2(2). The bill has a feedback. To Article 143. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Velimir Simonovic and Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, who submitted the amendment to Article 143.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20707	Article 143. The bill refers to the nostrification of diplomas and the determination of equivalence passed during the 1998 University Law. The legislator says that these decisions, in general, remain in force, but the applicant may require the renewal of the procedure within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The renewed procedure is carried out by the university council or by the competent authorities of the university, under the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal for a law on the University regarding nostrification and equivalence is no different from the Law of 1998. The only provision of the 1998 Law, which is deleted by this law on the University, reads: "If the nostrification process determines that the curricula and the programmes differ significantly, the university, or university, conditioned by the nostrification of exams, i.e. by carrying out other obligations established by the school's curriculum and programme, i.e. the university." It's the only provision from 1998 that is now out of the law. The question arises - why review the decisions on nostrification and equivalence. First, will the one who's been granted even ask for a review. He won't. So, the proposer points us to only one target group, to people who have not been issued a solution to nostrification or equivalence. But why are you disabling the expertise of the university and university at the time of the 1998 Law? The same organs, the same faces, maybe other personnel, have approved it by today and will approve tomorrow. What's the difference? In this article. But let Belgrade's college think a little bit about nostrifying a college degree that's given two years in a year. Let him take a look at the list of subjects studied by the student, look at the number of subjects first. Let the university guard itself, be autonomous, decide on the level, on the threshold of knowledge he wants his students to have when they get out of college. Don't point out now that any diploma acquired abroad applies to us. It can't be like that. Leave it to those who know it better than all of us. Don't question everything or question everything, and don't just what you think would be politically profitable to reevaluate, because if you go into reviewing everything that was done during the 1998 law, that bar would get so upset that it wouldn't calm down without new choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20708	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 86, abstention one, did not vote 27, a total of 160. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move to a decision on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 143. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provisions of Article 143. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 138(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall, when the draft law contains provisions for which a feedback is provided for, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall, in particular, decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make the provisions of Article 143. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 89, against 42, the abstentions, did not vote 31, a total of 162. I find that, most of the votes, the National Assembly has found that there is a general interest in the provisions of Article 143. The draft law has a feedback. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Velimir Simonovic, Predrag Canovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 145. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, v. 87, abstention one, did not vote 40, a total of 163. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic to article 145. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 82, the abstentions, did not vote 55, a total of 162. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 147, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20709	When proposing this law in a reasoned manner by the promoter, one of the basics for which this law was adopted was to increase the effectiveness of the study. However, in Article 43 as well as Article 147. The government does not respect its reasoning and principle, which was declared by the minister, to increase study efficiency. One of the main elements of study efficiency is the length of study. Under the current law, passed in 1998, the student had the right to repeat the year once during his studies if he wanted to finance from the budget. The government with this law allows students to repeat two different years twice. This is something that reminds us of 1968 when Veljko Vlahović and Josip Broz went to the Student City and said college students. We are all witnessing the fact that just after those historical sentences, it came about and began the collapse of universities and colleges, that it fell in quality, that students had worsened their conditions. I understand that the government wants in its advocacy, on behalf of earlier merits or services provided by student organisations, to make restitutions to students. Gentlemen, you could have made it up to those students in some other way. You could have reduced the level of enrolment, the amount of tuition, the tax on books, you could have improved their home conditions, their colleges; you could have, as a reformist government, helped the students indirectly so as to provide their parents with at least a job so that they could be educated. No, you're not, you're going to go for such transparent and cheap points, counting that for students it's good if I can do it twice or two years again. What are you going to do, gentlemen, with those students who have passed the exams regularly under the current law? How are you going to explain to them what is now a new law amnesty for those who have been a little more comfortable? Don't, gentlemen, that way, because it seems to be in line with that factory workers' parole; it looks like these factories, in this case of colleges, are going to disappear under your government. Fortunately, you won't be long, because that's the will of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20710	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20711	In order to make it more clear what it was, according to the 1998 University Act, the student had to, if he wanted the state to finance it, pass regular exams. The amendments to this bill on the University of Serbia's Radical Party have clearly shown its position enough that universities exist because of those who want to finish them as quickly as possible, so that they can continue to learn by working and that they can repay the state that financed them while they were studying, by contributing to the country's development, and I guess it's all clear. The laws are never made because of those who deviate from principle, but pretend to respect the principle. This provision may sound nice for someone's ears. Here, they allow students to fall another year, so once they get their regular status back, they can fall again for another two years. It's no good for a student or a parent at all, and for the state it's disastrous. This is also a discriminatory provision. I believe it must be of general interest to her, but why for students who have signed 2000/2001. A year. What about those who are 1999/2000, what about those who are 1998/1999? You cannot undo the provisions of one law for just one period in which the law was valid, for one third of that period, and for two thirds of that period, the law applies - you lost your calling, pay. You know why there's a provision like this? At the time when we were in power, there was no student paying tuition, there were no self-financing students, no student was enrolled at any university in the status of self-financed. It started in 2000, when you started taking care of it, and it immediately went to 3,000 or 4,000 thousand marks per student. Now only those students need their money back. However, those students from 1999/2000, from 1998/1999, paid for the exams. It should also enable them to get their status and return all their money, since you will be returning these from 2000/2001. Money obviously comes back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20712	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 109 abstentions, 17 of the 166 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move to a decision on the existence of general interest in the feedback of Article 147. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of article 147. The bill has a feedback. In accordance with Article 138(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall decide in particular whether there is an interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give the provision of Article 147. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 112, against 38, the abstentions were not voted on by 17, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, has found that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 147. The bill has a feedback. Member of the 148th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20713	Article 148 refers to the establishment of a student parliament, which, pursuant to Article 64, has the authority to elect a university or university teacher (as this will not be established on the first day of entry into force of this law), and representatives of students in the university’s management bodies, i.e. the university, will temporarily elect major universities and universities. That's what this Article 148 says, which we propose to delete. So, we believe that until parliaments are established in colleges and universities, their place should remain vacant by the advice and the place of the students and the proctors. We believe that this will motivate student organisations to make rules for student elections as soon as possible and to establish student parliaments. It is better than a solution setting deadlines or prescribing election rules without student participation. We believe that the worst solution that has been proposed is that the larger universities and colleges temporarily elect students themselves, to choose some favorite students who are sometimes over 30 years old, not to mention the examples now. This "temporary" often turns into permanent, especially in small colleges. So the idea is to keep the seats empty. You'll be told by the minister here that it won't even be possible to establish the councils of the university. We don't think that's true, but if that's true, that's good, because it will further motivate students to organise those student elections as soon as possible. There were some compromisers here to keep it "temporary" for six months, etc., but since there was no good will on the Education Committee, this original amendment remains. So we don't think they should choose a bigger one, that the deans and teachers should choose their favorite students to "temporarily" and in fact represent students permanently, rather than the student parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20714	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20715	When someone gets something, they have to earn it, at least in a certain way. The question is whether you legally have to force the students to do something that is their duty. I think we're in an absurd situation. Besides, I believe there are no more favorite students. I don't know why that sentence was said "favourable students". I always assume college administrations will consult existing student organisations during the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20716	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20717	Article 148. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as those who are now shaking at Belgrade University, in particular, shows their attitude towards Article 64, towards the imaginary student parliament. If you really want to let the students choose their own representatives in the governing bodies: the student procurator, the student prodeced, where did you get this transitional solution that teachers can do so in some period. There's no time for students to choose from teachers. I'm not even interested in students choosing teachers. And that's what you predicted here. But you always mix it up like that. As you mix executive, legislative and judicial authority, it's all the same to you, and the relationship between students and professors. I don't consider them rivals or associates, or rivals or associates. But the university needs to be seen as a place where one of them brings knowledge, and others receive it, and they are obliged to show on the exam how much knowledge they have acquired. And you turned this into a state. The student parliament should now be an opposition to teachers or an extended hand of teachers. You didn't think it very well at all, and you don't know what's actually going to happen. And the predecessor is right -- favorite students, well known to have them, and there are them in this room. It's the easiest thing for a man to study for 15 years and 15 years is a favorite.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20718	Anyone else want a word? In the words of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20719	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been very precise with this member to conclude that until the constitution of the student parliament at the university, or in colleges, the choice of students - proded, or students - is higher. There are already students' representatives there. It is not true, therefore, that there will be no representatives of students who could speak their views and point to a possible incorrectity in the process of selecting students who will temporarily perform the duty of procured, or student-procuror. The problem arises in a situation where because of the nature of the constitution of the student parliament, different terms can occur in which a student-proctor will be chosen, from the time when a rector, or dean of the university, will be chosen, and it will not be possible to establish bodies at the university until in a formal sense all the necessary legal requirements are met, so until we have a personal solution even temporarily for such a function. That's why this should be supported, without that kind of skepticism that's been blamed in advance for protectionism or the kind of practice that's been present so far. So the students are already in those councils and they can say what they think.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20720	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 148 on the vote. For 31, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move to a decision on the last amendment in the debate in particular, which is a proposal for adding a new member. National MP Miroslav Christodulo has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 148a be added after article 148a. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20721	It's just that it's the same number, so it's a whole other matter, and I suggest that a new member be added, and I have a right to do that under the Rules of Procedure. So not only is the amendment, but the addition of the law can be passed. This is a supplement. I suggest adding a new member to define who will take over the assets of the former legitimate student organisation at Belgrade University, as well as others, and it is called the Students' Union. So, the Students' Union is one of the organisations that was formed during the second half of the 20th century at universities in Serbia and in this one-party system it was, in this one-party way and legitimate as such. Of course, after the changes and after the amendments to the Constitution of Serbia, when it was predicted that everyone had the right to be asked whether he wanted to be a member of an organization or not, or such an organisation, such as the Union of Students and others, of course, as relics became against themselves. It was, when you enroll in college they themselves record that you are their members, not asking you; under the 1990 Constitution, whatever he was still valid, no one can become a member of any organization against his will. In this and such one-party system 20 or 30 years ago, there was a legitimate existence of such a single-party organization and it acquired some property, either through its own income or through donations. The property used to be smaller or larger, sometimes made only by a typewriter, a desk, and an old phone in an office at the university, and there were so many legates such as dormitory and hotels on some mountains. We propose that, since the new legitimacy of students is now being established, so this law, Article 64, after 10 years of fighting, we introduce a student parliament and that member is expected to have regular, direct, secret elections, that everyone will have the right to run and vote for that student parliament, and we determine the new legitimacy of student representatives. We believe that when we establish this new legitimacy, it is free of that legitimacy if there is no representativeship of students with what to do and if student property remains in the hands of one of the organisations participating in the student parliament elections. So, we do not feel that the Alliance of Students should be abolished, but should, of course, reform it to amend the statutes in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia and to become one of the organisations offering accession to its members and to fight for their votes in the student parliament elections. So we believe that this property should be shared between student organisations and the student parliament itself. We don't think it's supposed to be arranged in some revolutionary way, break in and take everything away from them. Of course not, and that's why we're proposing a five-seat member like this, who's very detailed on how this property is going to be divided. We propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia appoint half of the representatives to the Share of Assets Commission, that the student parliament appoints a second half after the constitution and that the Commission, on the basis of the criteria, agree itself within six months, and that this is not a small deadline, establish all facts, review the archives, look at what it is, when, and what it has been assigned to, and that (in six months), propose that the assets will be shared between student organisations, including, of course, the Students' Union and the Student Parliament. Of course, we have an attitude of 5 and that, in the event of a breach or failure of the provisions, as well as for all other complaints, disputes are settled by competent courts. So, of course, all of this will end in six months, and then there's a month's deadline for that property to be handed out, and at the end of the appeal period, you can also appeal to the court, the court will decide, first degree, second degree, etc. You will be told by the minister here that it is good that I propose, but that we should not now, but in the new law on student organisation, when it comes to the agenda, and very soon because, well, it is a priority; I think it is not true, that this law is not a priority and that it will not come here for at least a year on the agenda, and in those years we believe that the student parliament should still work with something and we propose in this way a parity, so nothing radical, that this property is shared. One more thing, I'm finishing up, we're always from the government, so to speak, we're constantly defending the government that it's reform, and now that we're proposing one reform and if that government doesn't accept that reform, can we still think that this government is reform?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20722	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20723	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, or at least you who deserve to be called that, since it's obvious that you won't have a quorum to work in the afternoon, and you expect to hear the information, tomorrow at 15.00 p.m. on the square dedicated to Emperor John Nenado in Subotica, the great rallying SRS, come and come.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20724	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20725	The laws are defined by their theme. Every law has its own sedes of matter, as Rodoljub said. This topic comes out of the framework of this law and that's why it's not over. I think it's a very serious business to be approached like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-18-0.u20726	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 97, the two abstentions, did not vote 55, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. I'm putting the bill of law on the university, in general. For 124, against 44, the abstentions were not voted 10, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on university. On the basis of Article 84(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 81, I will ask the National Assembly, and I will put the motion to the vote, to complete the work for today and continue the session on Monday 22 April at 10 pm. [[Applause]] I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on the proposal. For 127, against 26, with two abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 176 MPs. I repeat the invitation to the members of the Committee on Justice that the Committee session will be held in the scheduled period and I remind MPs that the Assembly will continue its work on Monday 22 April 2002 at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
