ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22480	On behalf of the SPS MP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45 of this Law. I find it necessary in that member to make significant changes. In fact, Article 45 provides for conditions that the bidder must fulfil in order to be able to participate in the procedure of awarding public procurement contracts. The Government, among other things, has proposed that a legal or natural person may not be a supplier for the delivery of goods, the provision of services or the execution of works, if within five years of the public procurement procedure, the judicial or administrative authority has been punished for a criminal offence, a commercial offence or an offence in connection with its business. The amendment proposes that the tenderer may be a legal or natural person who is not in the previous period of three years, not five years, by a judicial or administrative decision of the judicial or administrative authority to punish a commercial offence or offence in connection with its business. It is obvious that it is too rigorous in the government's proposal that the disqualification period lasts five years. The amendment also proposes to exclude criminal punishment as a reason for preventing the bidder from participating in the competition process from awarding contracts for the delivery of goods, the provision of services or the execution of works. Knowing what, so insignificant, failures can be a criminal punishment, it is unreasonable that this is an elimination reason and that this applies retroactively for five years. In the debate in principle, I pointed out the example that a construction company could be punished for the offence because when it was transported, construction materials had been dusted up. Now, imagine an absurd situation that will cause this construction company to be unable to compete for the construction of buildings financed from public spending, from the budget, so they won't be able to compete to build a hospital, a school or a similar facility financed from the budget. The amendment also proposes that a judicial or administrative measure of banning the exercise of public procurement over the past three years and not - five years, as proposed by the Government and normally if the measure is still in force, be issued as a reason for the applicant to participate in the procedure for the award of public procurement contracts. The data explanations for all three parts of the amendment show full justification for him to be accepted and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22481	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the mandated promoters coming forward for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the mandated promoters coming forward for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22482	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the SSJ MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 46 and suggests that, after the term "economy", they add the words "or another minister, responsible for the area for which the bids are being collected". Why did we propose this? We believe that, regardless of the capacity of the Minister of Finance and Economy, the possibility should be given, when it comes to public procurement and other areas, to ask other ministers, especially when it comes to construction, energy, agriculture, health, traffic, etc. I repeat, I think it's only a function of making public procurement as high as possible. For that reason, I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22483	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they proposed to add a new member of 46a after article 46a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? There is a word from MP Vlatko Sekulović, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 46. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22484	Madam President, dear colleagues, I had a dilemma about whether I should report for a debate at all, regarding these amendments that we have proposed before the Social Democratic Party, but I would just like to point to certain principles, using this amendment as an introduction. Namely, this amendment provides for certain conditions, which must be met by a special bidder, as defined by us in the concept of amending this law, in order to be able to participate in public procurement by special procedure. This special procedure, i.e. we have provided for one model of restrictive procedure, special procedure for domestic enterprises, namely: enterprises owned by disabled persons, women, persons of younger age, or certain age, etc. I just want to point out the following - since yesterday during the debate it was said that a bear service would be done to domestic companies, if these companies had any preference in terms of other competitors, as regards the provision of services in the context of public procurement. I don't think that's entirely true, because, as you can see from this amendment, small and medium-sized enterprises are each other's competition, and that means that there will certainly be better conditions, a better price, if we have more competitors, and not just one. So if we only have domestic businesses, that doesn't mean we only have one competitor, but we have more. I am using this opportunity to appeal to the Ministry of Finance to think in this direction, however, to create certain protectionist mechanisms related to our economy. I don't think these models, like we predicted, have to be the only ones. Some other countries know different models of domestic economy protection, e.g. in Poland, one administration, similar to this administration as provided for by this law, ad hoc can decide when public procurement will be granted only to domestic enterprises; then, in Hungary, according to their legislation, offers of domestic enterprises are discounted by 20%, at the time of the assessment of the offer, although they will end up being paid a full price. This means, at the moment when the offer is estimated, they discount it by 20%, or what is 100% nominal in that assessment by the competent authority becomes 80%, or 100 dinars becomes 80 dinars, although they will ultimately pay the full price of 100 dinars. That's how they protect domestic businesses. I don't see why we can't predict certain mechanisms, which we'll still protect domestic economy, because we're all aware that domestic economy, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are in need of protection on the market, in order not to be thrown into that ruthless competition, whether we like it or not. Even some countries, for example. those applicable to the most liberal in terms of the economy, such as the US, provide for specific procurement mechanisms, when it comes to companies that are owned, for example. minority, then ownership of military people with disabilities, etc. Thus, they even go much further as far as protecting their own economy. I think, however, in the coming period, since this law is a very important law, we should consider its modifications, in order to give our domestic businesses a better chance, especially those categories that we want to protect, in terms of socially weaker categories, such as women, young people, disabled persons, etc. And the last thing I want to say is that, in the end, we have to bear in mind that this law on public procurement is an exceptional legal act, because it regulates an area that has not been regulated so far and we will surely support this legislative proposal but we must bear in mind the following - that this law regulates how money is spent by domestic taxpayers. I think it is another argument that should be taken into account when voting on these amendments, which provides for certain preferences, i.e. certain protection of domestic enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22485	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it finds that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the representative of the applicants reporting for a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22486	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, along with a group of seven MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 55. A bill of this law. This article regulates the criteria for assessing the offer: the price offered, delivery deadline, quality, post-service and maintenance, the guarantee period and the scope of subcontractor engagement. The amendment proposes that if all bidders offered the same conditions, an advantage would be given to the bidder who offered to hire more domestic subcontractors. In yesterday's debate in principle, SPS lawmakers pointed to a serious lack in the government's proposal for this law, which refers to full equality in the selection of domestic and foreign bidders. It has been pointed out that because of the known circumstances that our economy has been going through in recent years, our parades are not capable of a completely equal match with foreign producers. It is also pointed out that we must open up to the outside market, but that a certain degree of protection of domestic producers is necessary, in order to soon qualify for an equal match on the international market. If we don't do that, we'll get into a situation where we can continue the mass closure of domestic factories and the layoff of workers. After that, and that's actually the next phase, we'll get into a situation where we don't have domestic production, but we won't have anyone to charge taxes, contributions, taxes and anything else. So we won't have the funds in the budget, so we won't be able to import or pay the foreign bidder. The SPS deputies in the debate yesterday indicated that all countries, including the most developed, are protecting domestic production through various visions. Examples are given that the most developed countries of the West, European Union countries, the USA, Japan are moving to agrarian production on average 30%, and in the production of certain agricultural products, such as sugar, milk and rice, agricultural producers receive up to 50% subsidies from the country. The United States prescribes quotas, introduces fees and customs for the entry of steel and others. There is no justification for us to fully liberalise imports. I am not going to talk about the extremely difficult consequences of our external trade deficit right now, and I will remind you that depending on the degree of economic development in certain countries and the World Trade Organisation respects certain levels of protection of domestic production. In 4-5 years, we cannot become a member of the World Trade Organisation, we accept these criteria, and it will mean much more than the Government has proposed in this law. With the amendment, which we have submitted as a group of MPs, on behalf of the SPS, we have proposed a very mild form of priority in the selection of bidders and that, to one who has been identified as hiring several domestic subcontractors. I hope most MPs understand our proposal and will vote for it when it is subject to the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22487	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22488	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment was, in fact, the last attempt to correct a feller who had made the law, even earlier, in a few members before this, that at least on equal terms to foreign subcontractors, if he can't already perform, would prefer the domestic industry and domestic service providers. It is perfectly normal that if, in one large tender, a foreign company gets a big job that is from the field of public affairs, that subcontractors -- subcontractors for all of those jobs that can do quality work on equal terms -- are hired, not some from abroad. I'll remind you of the case, it's a typical case of public work, which is cleaning up the Danube from the consequences of NATO aggression: gross jobs in this area have been given to foreign companies, and only to those that are the most risky, therefore, mine cleaning, a job that is life-threatening, have been subcontractors from Yugoslavia. This amendment also makes sense in some other areas and dams that are very typical of the Yugoslav industry, such as construction, and I guess it's normal that under the same conditions of construction work as subcontractors to get construction firms from our country, not others. The lowest price criterion, listed here as key, is again a problematic criterion because the market environment is not once and for all given a category. He's changing from the different things that happen in the country. For example, the Government's decision to increase electricity prices by 50% in one day alone, must contribute to the correction of calculations for all those where electricity consumption is an important item in the cost of costing one product or one service. So, domestic economy, domestic business providers, services, must have space when offering such reckless government procedures in one country that can drive them into bankruptcy, because they have not installed at the price of their products or services a liability arising from an increase in electricity prices or other conditions, which may be tax, could be something else - that is why this amendment is meaningful and deserves your support. We expect that this amendment will receive a sufficient number of votes, because this is the last chance for the domestic industry, at least through subcontractor form, to protect to the extent that it is normal for the state to take care of its economy and its employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22489	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Have there been any reports of this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 57. Proposal for a law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to read to you how the proposed position of the 2nd member is, in order to understand what is going on, or what is proposed by the SSJ: "The orderer is obliged to set an appropriate time limit for an answer, which cannot be longer than 20 days from the date of delivery of the requests." The Soviet Union proposes to place the point stuck instead and to add the text "no shorter than five days". Simply, the reason for this amendment is that the bidder should be left with one minimum deadline, because it will happen in practice that someone will be left with a one-day period and a 15-day period. Therefore, the law must determine what is the minimum time limit for the bidder, i.e. the contracting authority or public procurement, to leave it to the bidder to respond to what the contracting authority is looking for. For that reason, I think this is just an improvement in the text and I think, Mr. Minister, that this isn't politics either, but it's the desire of the Soviet Union to help you, that where you're wrong, the law gets better and that's why I suggest you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22491	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else applying for a word from authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not surprised the Government didn't accept this amendment, but I'm surprised the Legislative Committee didn't at least realize that the amendment was legally possible. The amendment refers to point 3 of Article 2(2). Where bid deadlines are mentioned in the open procedure, first of all by stressing that the deadline may be shorter than prescribed, but not less than 22 days if the contracting authority has completed, or has met three preconditions, so the third condition if the contracting authority is in the previous question, so it is in the text of the legislative project, it has published at least as much information as it had available at the time of sending that question. It is said that at least he published as much information as he had, as much information as he had, and it is understood that he could publish more information than he had. Here you need an expert on Serbian language, linguist, lecturer; the law must be clear, it must be precise; the legal norm must be written - through the legal norm the literacy of its creators, its creators, and I demand that the formulation be as follows: "in the previous discussion, published all the information that he had at his disposal at the time of sending this question. "To see how drastic the difference is, I'll tell you again. Minister Djelic, as a written man, reportedly said "in a previous discussion he published at least as much information as he had at his disposal at the time of sending the inquiry". I say, "In the previous discussion, he published all the information he had available at the time of sending that question. "What's in writing here? Don't answer, I don't expect an answer from you. This is a rhetorical question, and the rhetorical question is not expected to be answered. The answer will be given to the Serbian public. Voting cannot judge matters of literacy. So 50 illiterates cannot outvote one in writing. This cannot and in matters of language is not allowed, because if our language had developed on the basis of the vote and that most of the illiterate ones, and for a long time we had most illiterate ones, it is possible today, decided on language issues and outvoted the few in writing, perhaps we Serbs would have run out of language. Since, fortunately, our people and when they were illiterate were not stupid, they did not trust the majority to decide the matters of language, but to the most clever and written of their ranks, our language was very successful and was among the world's most developed languages.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22493	People's MP, please return to the agenda. It's not literacy and illiteracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22494	It is about literacy, because I'm not essentially criticizing the norm, I'm only asking for application for reasons of literacy, and I've given an explanation here. The Serbian language is very precise and it is my explanation of the amendments I have submitted in writing. The Serbian language is very precise and cannot be published more information than the client has. As much information as the client has is not the least, not the most, but exactly as much as there are. However, there is another problem with your government. Your government is used to publishing a lot more information than it really does. She first invents information, so she publishes it, but it shouldn't stand in this legal text. That thing at the Bebe Popovic Communications Bureau, as it's already called, doesn't matter. In this law, norms must be precise. You'll laugh at people to commit a job orderer to publish at least as much information as he had, instead of making him publish all the information he has. What is the problem with accepting this amendment? It's just a thing of style, a thing of language, a thing of literacy. It doesn't really change anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22495	You're using the next five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22496	I can use it, and I hope the minister won't answer, so I won't need to derail. Maybe I won't use it until the end. What's important about legal norms? It is important that the largest language experts participate in legal normation. I know it wasn't such a practice before; it used to be in the Kingdom of Serbia, almost regularly in the creation of legal norms, language professionals were engaged. It was done quite well in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The communists did not hold on to it - communists used the most radical structures in legal norms, completely foreign to our language, often very incomprehensible and structures that often meant nothing. However, in the past few years, a second case has appeared: it was first recorded in Republika Srpska, when laws began to be written from the West, and the state authorities of Republika Srpska turned into mere instruments for implementing Western forces policy. Then you could find out through the legal text which language he was translated from, whether from English, French, German, Italian, etc., because unprofessional people were translating, and these poor people who pretended to exercise power were not allowed to notice that the language in the text was not perfected. This isn't even about the text translated from a foreign language, it's about the mere ignorance of the one who wrote the legal norm. He was clear of what he wanted to norm, he was clear of what he wanted to write as a legal obligation, but the poor was not able to deal with language issues. It's not enough to graduate from law school if a man doesn't have elementary literacy. Of course, I can't oblige you that all government lawyers must be in writing. While I was Deputy Prime Minister, in those short two-and-a-half years, at least not a single law from the economics and financial sphere, which went through my hands, did not come in illiterately to the National Assembly. What's the matter, Djelic? Feel free to say, don't hesitate. (Božidar Djelic: Bonds without coverage. That's not true. All the bonds were covered, but you were the ones who squandered the cover. All the companies that were to sell goods owed a lot of money to the state and we calculated that these companies owed the state three times more money than the state owed on behalf of children's accessories and many started selling bond goods, because then we freed them 50% of the government's liabilities, so it was useful for them. There was no chaos until you came to power. Of course, when you came to power, the price was suddenly six times more expensive and now the price of electricity is six times more expensive than it was in 2000. Now you're announcing fuel and oil collection, now the price of gasoline and oil will be 1.60 DM and 1.70 DM.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22497	People's MP, get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22498	The discussion on this topic was initiated by Minister Djelic, I assume you were a witness. So, I come back with a proposal that the Serbian government hires several excellent language experts. We have a very good Faculty of Philology who's been teaching solid staff. You need a language expert, since you haven't bothered to find written people when you've formed a government and at least now find written people who will be able to cover up your illiteracy through legal acts, through the draft laws you're dealing with in front of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22499	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22500	In Article 67, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is said that the short deadline for submission of bids in a restrictive procedure. This restrictive procedure has been elaborated on previous members of the legislative project, and my intervention refers only to item 1 point 3, which is one of the obligations of the client: "In the previous discussion, he published at least as much information as he had at his disposal at the time of sending that question". So, the remark is similar to the previous one, and I ask it to say, "In the previous discussion, he published all the information he had at his disposal at the time of sending that question." Once again, I invite you to reconsider. How pointless it sounds to someone to publish at least as much as they have, how much information they have. At least that's how much he has to publish. Isn't that pointless to you? Instead of standing, he has to publish all the information he has. Where it's said, at least as much information as it has, it's understood that it can do more than that. You have a political practice of publishing more information than you have with them, but that's when you place over Pink TV, BK TV, this week's Telegraph and other similar police messages. It can't stand in the legal norm, because when you place more information in public than you objectively have, pretend not to place more than that, but that is also reliable information that you place. In this case, you reveal, in fact, the entire government's policy on information. You think as a government, that someone can publish more information than they have at their disposal -- they can't. So what is the essence of this norm - to publish everything that is available and that is enough, not to publish at least everything that is available.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22501	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Since this amendment was adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted together to the 71st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 71. Proposal for a law on public procurement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22502	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 71. The bill states: "For planned public procurements whose indicative value is greater than 50,000, the contracting authority is obliged to publish at least once a year a previous discussion of the intention to award public procurement. "The SS is proposing that this amount be not 50 million dinars, but that it be 30 million dinars, and given that the Serbian economy is in very poor condition, that for most companies 30 million dinars is a large money and that it is more transparent, as you are constantly calling for transparency, it is 30 million dinars than 50 million dinars or converted into that currency that you like to mention, it is somewhere a million marks or 500 000 euros or euros, as someone already calls it. That is why the Soviet Union is proposing that you adopt this amendment and that this indicative value be 30 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22503	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 73 and 73, the amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since this amendment was adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a subtitle above members 74 and Article 74. Since this amendment was adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 75th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jović, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22504	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 77 discusses opening bids in an open procedure during the second phase of the restrictive procedure. Exceptionally, the contracting authority may, for reasons of keeping business, official, military or state secrets, give up the tender procedure, so that the offer is not made public. We have submitted an amendment to delete in Article 77, paragraph 2, the words "... official and business... "because we thought it was enough to keep only military and state secrets, and that business and official secrets weren't at that level of degree to earn this kind of attention here. The reasons the government gave, we do not accept; this is why: the amendments are not accepted for the reason that by accepting it, the client would be put in a position to reveal business, official or state secrets - we did not even seek state, you wrote something we did not ask for at all, we said, business and official, and we left a military and state secret, because we understand why it should stand there. Therefore, even the argument given by the Government is not an adequate request that has an amendment. So I ask that this be agreed or given a different explanation or that the Government accepts the amendment. So once again, in the reasoning given by the Government, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by accepting it, the client would be put in a position to reveal business, official or state secrets. It's completely incorrect what you wrote. Please accept the amendment or change your mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22505	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22506	It is an amendment relating to Article 78, which treats the opening of tenders minutes. That article shall lay down the basic rules for the opening of tenders. The last position then says: "The Minister of Finance and Economy is closer to regulating the opening of bids in an open procedure, a restrictive procedure and in the process of guessing and prescribing a form for keeping the bids open. "It is done by the minister, and there is a special administration and this administration has not been established as some department of the finance ministry. I suppose the head of that administration, as he will be called, the director, the chieftain, like this, is not important at all, may also be the deputy minister, and since it is not about the ministry in the right sense of the word, but that administration would have to be approximately approximated by the ministry's rank. All the important things are being decided and prescribed by the minister. If this can't be the authority of the head of the administration, then it should be the government's jurisdiction -- that the government prescribes it on a proposal, maybe the finance minister, can do this, can do that; but that the minister prescribes it, and thus devalues the concept of the administration itself, from the legal point of view is unacceptable. Then why are you calling that organ administration?- I'm sorry. Why don't you call that authority the Department of Public Procurement, why don't you call it the Department of Public Procurement of the Ministry of Finance?- I'm sorry. Give me a lighter term, because when you say management, then it's understood that it's in the right sense of the government's word. Since our management in terms of management, with the exception of the Government, is based on the principle of in-coherent managers, then the head of that administration would have to have certain powers or the administration would have collective leadership, a collective body, so this collective body has certain powers. This is where you put the public procurement department down on the mere service, administrative service, brush service, rags, for this, for that. She doesn't have any classical administrative jurisdiction. If you need such an organ, I don't mind, it's just too much jurisdiction for the Ministry of Finance. Then basic things need to be in the hands of the government in general, that the government decides, and as far as professional services are concerned, the job can be done by the current professional service of the Ministry of Finance or a little groomed, increased, more qualified, etc. Don't call an organ management without giving it any administrative jurisdiction. Then why do you call him management? That's the essence of my intervention. I'd like to mention one more thing that was said yesterday. You know, public procurement policy is an integral part of economic policy, one of the most important parts of economic policy. This is an instrument of economic policy. The government, leading a sound public procurement policy, encourages certain industries, encourages economic operators in certain areas, where a certain incentive is needed in development due to economic backlogs, etc. It's a very important element of economic policy everywhere in the developed world. It's supposed to be that way with us. In order for this to really be an important instrument of economic policy, in order to be the backbone of economic policy in a sense of the word, it must be precisely justified by law. This is not a precise foundation, this is a galamatias, which says the creator of the legal project knew what he wanted. That was explained in a rather correct manner by Minister Djelic in the opening statement. He wants to save, he wants to control, he wants to stop corruption, he wants to curb bribes, etc. It's a matter of desire. Desires are justified, but these wishes are now in an immaterial, legal way to be implemented. Either you have the concept that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or you have the concept that it is the jurisdiction of a special administration or the concept that it is the authority of the Government in general. Yesterday, I've been pushing for it to be the government's overall jurisdiction, as it concerns all the ministries and since it would not put the finance minister above all the other managers on the procurement issue. That's why it makes the most sense to be the government's jurisdiction in general. It is regular, from the aspect of the constitutional system, that it be the responsibility of the finance minister, but it is not politically opportunised, because the powers of the finance minister are being increased too much. If it is a special administration, which is partly your concept, because you have made a mix between the concept in which it will be the responsibility of the finance minister and the concept to be the jurisdiction of the special administration, then you must consistently implement the concept of this special administration through this legal solution, you have not consistently implemented it. You have until the start of the vote to consult legal experts whether this principle has been consistently implemented in the legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22507	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the applicant applying for a word? The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, who submitted the amendment to Article 83. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 83 refers to a reasoned notice on the award of a public procurement contract. I asked in Article 83 to delete Section 5. This is the final position in which it is said: "The contracting authority may refuse to provide a reasoned notice in whole or in part, if the provision of such information would be contrary to the regulations or otherwise contrary to the public interest or if it would violate the business secret of the successful bidder, and if the reasoned notification contained information which is classified as confidential or could, in accordance with the law, affect the loyal competition between tenderers or other parties in the procedure". The adoption of this attitude would provide unlimited opportunities for malfeasance and abolish the right of other bidders not selected in a specific case to find out who got the job. If there is something that can be called a secret, as the secret obliges the selected performer, it can, on the same basis, bind all others who have applied but have not received the job. There are two ways to commit: the first legal way - criminal sanctions have been threatened, you've been notified, he's been chosen under both these and these conditions, and you have to keep that secret. Your right to know why he was elected, and you still have to keep that secret unless you want to open a court case if you think some of your rights are denied. There is an appeal and a court case as possible. However, there is another element of security -- one that behaves incorrectly in a competition in which he is not selected as a performer, he cannot count on ever being able to get a job again. On that basis, trust is based, in a civilized developed world, between a large number of different performers who get jobs from the government and the government themselves from time to time. Each of them, and if he doesn't get a job for a long time, knows that he has to be correct, one day he'll probably get a job when he offers the most correct conditions. But to prevent participants from competing with this argument from being informed of the conditions under which someone got a job and the others didn't, then you're preventing him from protecting his rights against the law. How will he appeal when there are no basic elements on which to base the complaint? If he loses in the appeal procedure, on what elements will he base his suit on a competent court? He, when suing you, if the court acts in accordance with the Constitution and the law, will only oblige you to bring all the data, and declare that part of the trial a secret, closed to the public, and that information will be known to whoever sued you. If you have no reason to hide anything else, if you are hiding the data only for these reasons that you have listed here, it is easier for you to get to know the other participants in the process, to tell them the consequences of the discovery of this secret and thus protect yourself and make them bound. Now, let's analyze what this is all about. First, it is said that the contracting authority may refuse to provide reasoned notice, either in general or in part, if the provision of such data would be contrary to the rules. What regulations? Are these regulations regarding the country's defence and security? A voice from the O.R.: Traffic. Well, maybe you don't even know about someone else. They can be your regulations too. What are those regulations? He's already competing. Is that an army or police supply? He has already entered certain secrets as soon as he participates in the procurement competition. We have in practice a whole series of cases, often related to criminal activities, that private firms were purchasing weapons for the military and the police, weapons, means of listening. (President: Use the next five minutes? I can do it for the next five minutes, so I'll finish. It was done by various private companies. There used to be corruption, there used to be crime. In part, we discovered these things at the time of the Federal Assembly's Survey Committee. They're in a position, because they're dealing with a certain kind of business, to learn many military secrets, many security secrets. But the law obliges them to guard. Whoever performs his economic activity in the nature of things comes into possession of a certain state secret, if he discovers that secret, answers in accordance with the law. Nothing can escapade him. Let's see what's the other reason -- "or in some other way contrary to public interest." If you commit a participant in a competition who didn't get a job to keep a secret, then he can't publish it. You are able to oblige officials in your ministry, officials of state administration, government officials, assembly officials and all others, to keep certain secrets, all state authorities, and then you are able to both private legal and commercial entities. Why not? It's all about this legal provision about keeping secrets. You, therefore, are only slightly expanding the circle of faces that are covered by keeping secrets, who are familiar with the secret and who are bound to keep it. And what kind of public interest could be at stake then? It's absolutely impossible to have something in secret, that no one knows or only one man to know. When only one man knows something, it's no secret. No one even knows it exists in his head, so then he can't reveal himself, not even anyone after that. So whoever wrote this doesn't understand what a secret is in the right sense of a word. Third, "or if it would violate the business secret of the selected bidder." The chosen bidder, therefore, has some secret, has a secret, based on that secret, has got a job and no one else can find out why he got the job. Does that make sense? It doesn't make any sense. So here's an example of me banalizing things to the end: someone enrolls in college and enrolls; others who are rejected from the competition can't verify his documents because he had some secret based on which he was enrolled. What could be the secret? Just some connection, someone intervened for him. And here that secret may be just some connection. Because he had some special patent that others didn't have? His patent is protected. Listen, technology is so advanced it's a little bit of industrial secrets, but there are a lot of protected patents, a lot of protected industrial property rights. They're registered as protected. You know the secret to the production of many goods, but rarely that goods still keep that secret of theirs, perhaps like Coca-Cola, and I don't think of any other product. Maybe, but it's very small. That's why this is no argument. What is said as a fourth -- "as if the reasoned notification contained information that is classified as confidential by other regulations". What are the data that are classified as confidential by other regulations - are contained in the reasons for selecting one bidder, and must not be known by another bidder. If not all bidders should know, then neither should the person who got the job under the same conditions. Where's the guarantee that whoever got the job will keep a secret, and those who didn't get a job that would give up the secret right away. There's no guarantee. From the point of view of legal logic, it's completely missed. And, fifth--"or the reported data might... " (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... Here, I end right now - "or published data could, in accordance with the law, affect loyal competition between bidders or other parties in the process." How can that affect? Everything that's secret is protected by patent rights, real industrial property. What's some other secret that's not protected? Only, perhaps, a secret that someone illegally uses certain patents. It could only have been such a secret, and such a secret is not kept by law. There is a duty to report that someone abuses other people's rights in an illegal manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22509	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they proposed to add a new article 85a after article 85a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the mandated promoters coming forward for this amendment? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? Here you go. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my amendment, I suggest that article 88 be completely deleted. This article refers to additional deliveries and it states: "The contracting authority may award a public procurement contract in the process of guessing without prior publication and in the case of additional deliveries of the original supplier intended for: 1) a partial replacement of the product, material or installation or 2) an extension of the volume of existing products, materials or installations, which, due to the change of suppliers or service provider, would oblige the contracting authority to obtain material which has different technical characteristics, which would cause disproportionately large technical difficulties in business and maintenance". This -- a guess without prior publication is an institute that the Serbian Radical Party does not generally accept. The whole job can be divided into several parts or phases, and then, as a partial replacement, several times assigned to the authorised performer. However, earlier in practice, we had quite a common case of obtaining a certain job at a public auction, and then constantly signing some annex contracts, and this could, as it were by law, and this was possible in legal practice, to have incomprehensible proportions -- that the final job would be 10-20-30 times more valuable than the initial job. There is now a reasonable assumption that there are a large number of interested economic operators who would report to the competition if they knew that this job would finally be so huge. Or, if you don't accept my proposal to delete this member, then you should correct it, to say that these additional jobs cannot amount to e.g. more than 10% of the total value of the job, so that in some ways it is limited. Otherwise, the whole process of calling for a job award, for the selection of suppliers, if, on this basis, one firm can become an exclusive supplier for decades; once you give it a job, and then for years you only add to the job with this explanation. This should be thrown out, in my opinion. So my amendment says, to completely prevent this possibility, for everything to be repeated, and if not, then to install a limiting factor and to say that these additional jobs can't be more valuable than 10% of those jobs assigned to the public competition. That could make sense. And if you don't accept it either, then this provision falls under the law in general. You've paved the way for a monopoly. Just because Djelic spins his head doesn't mean anything, because he's going to spin his head and someone else who decides according to this member of the law. He doesn't have anything on him here, he can be in the same nature of business, when a toilet paper supplier is chosen for the government, since I hear that the quantities are constantly increasing in purchases, then he can get that paper for 10 or 20 years and just be sent to him on the basis of this article. And since the minister is getting ready to suit me, for the next five minutes, I'll take advantage of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22511	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted together to the 88th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, with my amendment, that article 89 be completely deleted. This article refers to other deliveries, and it reads: "The contracting authority may award a public procurement contract in the process of guessing without prior publication and in the case of the procurement of goods intended exclusively for research, experimentation, study or development purposes, and the contracting authority does not intend to benefit from this good for any commercial purposes or to compensate for the costs of research and development". Why this exception? It is completely irrelevant from the point of view of the legal order, the spirit and purpose of this legal project, whether the client has commercial goals! It is important to pay well the taxpayers' money and that the spending of these funds must be under control. I know from experience that many colleges, for example. obtaining many experimental animals, chemicals and other consumable materials for various laboratory exercises. They often have a stalking system of purchases, but they generally do not question whether competition exists on the market and whether all of it can be bought cheaper than any other supplier. Sometimes it's big financial resources for these purchases, in chemical institutes, for example. where radioactive isotopes are involved, etc. The market is constantly developing, prices are getting lower. I'm going to banalize it again -- the first mobile phones, when they showed up at our house in December 1995, cost 12,000 marks, and now you already have them for 150 marks. The most expensive are maybe 600-700 marks. As technology develops, these basic technological achievements continuously reduce the price on the market, win the quality of production, win the productivity, plus the competition on the market, all this affects the reduction of product prices. (The voice from the O.R. - "Pejoi" is getting more expensive. In this case, I don't know how much the pejoi cost you, so you discuss it in your coalition and what you do later when you buy a "pejo" through someone, do you catch it, close it, etc., it's already a matter of some other authorities, now I'm discussing the Public Procurement Act. You pay a man on one counter, you take away what you pay him on the other. It's a different practice now, it has nothing to do with economic legality. That is what all economic laws fall on, and all economic legality falls on it. I think this parliament should at least pass laws based on these basic economic principles, not on the principle of kidnapping. Since there is no serious reason, nor has the Government stated in its reasoning of the bill, that anyone is exempt from the provisions of public procurement laws, that anyone is deprived of the need to call a competition, or bid, even if he is involved in research, experiments, etc.; there are no big secrets. The secret can be the result of an experiment, not the acquisition of some necessary materials for experiments. It's a rare secret. Maybe it can be a secret somewhere, I can't be absolutely sure, I don't do it primarily, but it's not basically a secret. You know what else this could be about -- it could also be about getting textbooks. Why would the state only have one privileged publisher and textbook printer; to leave it to the market -- a textbook competition is being called, and at that competition, besides writers, printers, publishers, etc. It's been a long time since competition. A whole series of other examples of practice I could tell you, to prove that this member of the law here, not only is it not necessary, but it is contrary to the spirit and meaning of the law and that, instead of curbing bribery and corruption in this sphere, the irrational spending of state money, it opens a side channel in which abuses can be restored, in which corruption can be restored, without anyone's control. Someone's just saying, it's an experiment, he doesn't need a competition. Someone's just saying, it's research, he doesn't need a competition! He needs it for all the competitions: both for experiments, and for research, for laboratory work, for the practical exercises of students and for everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22513	Yes, and someone else is answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22514	With my amendment, I asked that article 93 be deleted, because it also applies to additional works. So it's not about additional orders, like in one of the former members I challenged, it's about additional works. Indeed, these additional works appear in practice and these additional works must be regulated in a certain way. These additional papers open up the possibility of abuse from the aspect of the basic spirit and the meaning of this legal project. In the past, it was allowed to practice, by law and by following regulations -- you do one job, and then you build a huge number of other jobs on the contract annexes, in the form of additional works. Here, Article 93 states (I will go in order to order and dispute this): "The contracting authority may award a public procurement contract in the process of guessing without prior publication and in cases of: 1) in the case of additional works and services not included in the original project or in the first public procurement, which have become necessary for the execution of the public procurement contract, provided that the contract is awarded to the original contractor or service provider and if: (a) such additional works or services cannot be separated in a technical or economic way from the main public procurement, without causing irrevocable difficulties for the contracting authority". Who's the one who can assess these conditions in advance? There is a need for additional work in progress, and someone is now assessing that these additional works cannot be separated in technical or economic terms and that of those already started. In practice, it's very rare cases, I doubt there are any, but since I'm not an expert in the area, I wouldn't even be categorical. It has to be kind of checked out. The simplest way is the market. There could be a shorter deadline here for calling a public competition and selecting another performer who offers a more favourable price. He can take advantage of the same conditions as the one who's already got into business. It would be irrational for someone who has already entered the business to offer the same conditions as some competition, so that competition can be entrusted with this additional smaller business. That would be irrational, but someone who will be able to appear regardless of the work you started, who, regardless of the already known performer, will offer to create, or perform, these new works on much more favourable terms and why not give him a chance! Someone can start construction work, and then suddenly the need to work and the water line, because the one found has run out, or the access route, etc., and why would that be related to the one who's already got one kind of work? There's a whole series of abuses, someone gets a job to build a building, and then they tell you they need a new sewerage, the old one's worn out, needs a new plumbing, needs new electrical installations, power supply, a new trafo station, a new asphalt road, etc. You know, in small businesses, this isn't particularly important, but this is very important in large-scale business, in large-scale investments. So this argument doesn't stand and that's one of the reasons why this member should be expelled. (b) it is said "if such works or services, which the client could assign separately from the execution of the original contract, are necessary for further stages of the performance of the works, where the total value of all additional works or services cannot be greater than 25% of the total value of the main public procurement". That's a quarter of that major public procurement. In cases where necessary, it is my opinion that it can be 10% maximum. Do you know what a quarter of big investments mean? Someone gets to pave the highway from Belgrade to Nis, and another quarter gets to pave the Ibar highway from Belgrade to Cacak. That's drastic, you'll change that, won't you? You haven't announced in public yet that you're going to be changing performers. It's not about asphalting, it's about asphalting these Surchins, you'll know it all. You'd better not get in my word, you're always hard to get by. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. ) To continue, as far as point 2) is concerned, it says: "The new services or works that represent the repetition of similar works or services are performed by the original performer, provided that such works or services are included in the basic project for which the first public procurement contract was awarded after a public call. This possibility is required by the contracting authority to state in the first publication of the public call." So this is where the orderer only commits himself. When he announces the first competition that there is a possibility that whoever is elected to the competition will receive the same papers regularly and no longer need a competition. I just gave you a banal example here, and that's the purchase of toilet paper for the Serbian government. You, for example, call a competition, find the most favourable supplier, and in the competition you prescribe that there is a possibility, if you like it, that it is constantly getting you a new competition. Wait, but this is where technology develops. Who's going to follow technological developments in the government? There's no one, the ministers are busy, he's hunting birds, Vesenov, this chasing business, this one, this one, he's in charge of commissions, etc. There's no one to deal with technological development. There are no experts in government on these issues. With this technology changing faster and faster, this legal provision makes no sense. What costs the government after a single competition to check whether the technology has progressed, whether prices on the market are lower, whether you can get better product quality and then choose the same performer as before or now someone new. It'll be much more quality and whoever's previously chosen to do his job if he knows there's a new competition waiting for him, if he knows it's not enough to bribe someone more powerful in the government at some point, and he says, "You don't have to call a new competition, there's this provision, there's this clause, it can do the same again, etc." Most importantly, there's no price provision here. It's hard to believe that if someone gets a job at one price today, a job that lasts five years, that after five years, they're willing to take the same job again at the same price. And who is it that will determine at the end of the deadline what will be the price in effect? One job ends, it's hard to believe that whoever did one job for you, unless it's within a short period of time, a week, a month, etc. -- and you know, here you claim there's no inflation, and constantly rising prices on all sides, the stampede is a price -- it's impossible after a month or two to get an identical offer. You give one supplier to get you goods in a time period of two months. After those two months under this law, you provide the opportunity to be a supplier again, but at some new price. Who's going to set that new price? Where's the competition? It's elemental logic. Who is the one in the government who estimates how much price hikes on the market, and is that the most favourable price, then who estimates that an even better supplier is not possible in the government market?- I'm sorry. Here's an open channel of corruption. Why don't we close this channel? We can simply shut it down and only by eradicating this provision; and that everyone knows who does one job, if he does it qualityly and has gained a reputation in the eyes of the government as a business manager, that this reputation means a lot in getting every new job, but under identical conditions. You know, there's another category that's being applied and must be prescribed by competitive conditions. It's a performer's bonus. Each performer comes with certain characteristics, his work experience, even his recommendations in some cases and takes care of it. To establish a monopoly, there is no reason to open a new channel of corruption, for there is also no reason, unless there are some bad intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22515	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 96. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your authority tends to assign these public powers to various social entities which, under the Constitution or the relevant laws, do not have public authority. We saw recently, when you showed up with a draft law on broadcasting, that you had predicted this law in an anti-constitutional way, and you were wise to withdraw, that some social organisations, institutions get public authority, and they have no basis for those public powers. For example, you have provided for religious communities there, and yet you have not passed a law on religious communities and no public authority for religious communities is provided. You've even predicted social organizations. Government television is the exercise of one public authority. Nowhere is it regulated by law that they may have public authority, and you, from heaven to ribs, predict that in one sphere they have these public powers. You've done something similar here. This is about the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, which, on the basis of public calls, draws up a list of interested construction contractors, sticking to some legal conditions and conditions for building buildings in Serbia. Why does the Chamber of Commerce make up that list? Does the Chamber of Commerce know who all potential performers are? Did you oblige all potential performers to be members of the Chamber of Commerce at all? Private companies are not required to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. Chambers of Commerce in the world are free associations of business entities, and you are taking over self-government communist practice where chambers of commerce were a general mandatory form of association, i.e. organization of business entities. What's that for? Someone who wrote this was infected with old ideologies, overcome perceptions. There's no room here for the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce can help the government or this administration do business with its own information. Please inform us of that and that, not that the Chamber of Commerce is making a list based on a public call. The Chamber of Commerce is not an authority of the state administration. The government needs to draw up that list and notify the Chamber of Commerce to help her with the information. It can, but that the Chamber of Commerce is making that list, it can't, because the Chamber of Commerce is not the authority of the administration, it's not the authority of the executive authority. Paragraph 2 states: "If SR Yugoslavia has concluded an appropriate agreement with another country, performers established in other countries shall be registered in the list of interested contractors, provided they meet the conditions set out in Article 1." They're meeting our requirements of attitude one, so they're on the list of our Chamber of Commerce. I guess it's more serious here to be the states with which we have bilateral agreements on this matter. If our companies have the same conditions in these countries, that their companies can work in our country; and not now our Chamber of Commerce should make a list, so they say they will take this one from Austria, the one from Russia, Belarus, the one from the Czech Republic, France, Germany, from any country. What are these criteria? Based on what? Based on the experience of that old-time Chamber clerk, who remembers some countries with whom there was business co-operation or has preconvincedness. The Chamber of Commerce is in no condition to make that list at all. What is she authorized to make that list? Where's her public authority? It's not in the Chamber of Commerce Act. You agree there isn't?- I'm sorry. You hereby impose something on the Chamber of Commerce that is not intended for it by its founding law, after all. You're giving her new public authority that she's not qualified for. There are registers in international associations, associations of producers from certain areas, etc. It's not hard to get to them, but that's what this government administration is supposed to do. Don't take that government administration's attention to ordinary paperwork, to clean administration, to dactyloservis. The third point is said: "The list of interested contractors is recorded by performers based in the Republic of Montenegro, provided they meet the conditions set out in Article 1." So again they are listed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. This provision is pointless under the Constitution, by all other laws, by legal order. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. I'm leaving from the next five minutes. All performers from the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are equal in the entire territory of Yugoslavia, at least while there is this common state, even on paper. From that point of view, this attitude is quite excessive. Something that they're entitled to by nature, you're now further confirming to them as a right. It would be interesting to explain Djelic, who criticised me yesterday for pushing for a perfectly normal provision that directly determines the existing federal law, and here is the right for companies from Montenegro who otherwise have all the laws. The fourth point: "If the Chamber finds out that the performer listed in the list of interested contractors no longer fulfils the conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, they will request in writing that the performer prove again within eight days of the date of delivery of the written request that it fulfils the conditions". First, how can the Chamber estimate that someone meets the legal requirements? It's not the Chamber of Government, it's not the Ministry, it's not the Republic Administration. For the implementation of this law, it is not the responsibility of the Chamber of Commerce, but first of all the Government and the competent ministries, or the authorities of the administration, and now the Chamber assesses who meets and who does not meet the conditions. How can he do that? When you adopt, if you adopt, you won't... The fifth position: "If the performer of Article 4 does not provide evidence that he continues to fulfil the requirements of Article 1 and Article 2 of this Chamber will delete him from the list of interested contractors". Instead of providing evidence that it meets the conditions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance or this administration, if it is understood and if you accept my amendments to be conceived as administration in the right sense of the word. What does he have to deliver evidence to the Chamber of Commerce to meet the conditions? First, the government doesn't have such control capabilities running the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce is not a state institution subordinated to the Government. It's not in the executive system at all and what someone has to prove in front of the Chamber of Commerce. The independent company objectively meets the requirements, has all the evidence and directly reports to the competition. Is this how you make companies that don't want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce? Is that really true? That's the point! Then why don't you confess to the public that you're rebuilding the old communist self-government system? The Chamber of Commerce must be a free association. That everyone joins with the awareness that it brings him certain benefits, not that he joins under the sea. This is not in the Law of the Chamber of Commerce; I have read, for I have read all the laws, and have read you all long ago. What's next here? "The contractors who are included in the list of interested contractors can contribute to any public procurement procedure on which they participate a certificate of entry in the list issued by the Chamber." Here we are. This definitely confirms that the Chamber is your government's authority. Why don't you consult experts from the Council of Europe? Why don't you consult experts from the European Union? Too much Serbia, they're always here at meetings. They seem to be interested only in laws that are directly manipulated by the people; the Law on Information, the Law on Internal Affairs, the Army, etc. That's what they're interested in. You think they're interested in your economic recovery? No, but consult someone and let them tell you if this exists in the European Union, whether there is such a practice and whether these public powers are given to commercial chambers. It should be explained to many government members what public powers are, who may be and who is the original institution of public authority, who can be entrusted with public authority. We discussed these issues in part when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, but many did not understand. Finally, it is said: "The confirmation of the position of the 6th member shall be valid for one year from the day of issue". Now every year anyone who wants to deal with the state has to get a new license from the Chamber of Commerce. (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done and I hope I've convinced you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22517	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. We continue the discussion in detail. The 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinovic, who was suspended by the MP's mandate, and the DOS-Demochrist Party of Serbia's MP for the new rapporteur on the amendment was appointed by MP Predrag Stojanovic. This amendment was adopted by both the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic together submitted an amendment proposing to amend the title of subtitle 3 after Article 97. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22518	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs of the Serbian Unity Party have proposed that the subtitle "Supply of Services" be replaced by the text: "Contracting the execution of services". It is illogical and it is not linguistically correct to obtain services. I'd like to ask the representatives of the government, I see the minister is not here, to explain practically where the services are being purchased, where these services are being supplied. We, the MPs of the Soviet Union, are not clear. I wish we could find something new in our political work, that services can be bought. According to us, services are negotiated and based on that. So let us make a law so that some people who will read and see services are not allowed to buy. Where services are purchased in Europe, gentlemen, and we strive to enter Europe. So I think it's logical to accept, and the government's argument of why this amendment is being rejected, I don't think it stands, - that the coherence of the law would be lost in this way or I don't know how. That's why I suggest that you vote for this amendment when you vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22519	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 99, which they submitted in the same text, MP Vojislav Seselj and MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic, together with a correction. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22520	Milka, today you're much nicer to me than yesterday, I appreciate it very much, maybe there's a reward coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22521	I ask the MP to respect Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to communicate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22522	Let the parliamentary majority respect that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22523	Article 99 refers to all MPs, so those who violate it by obtaining from the bench and speaker who violates it by entering the dialogue with the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that an article of the 99th Law be deleted, which refers to services to which the Law does not apply. That's how it's conceived -- services that the law doesn't apply to. First, all works and all services paid in part or in whole by the budget, i.e. by taxpayers, must be subject to public procurement. Anything paid in this respect, taxpayers need to know how and where they spend money, spending money that they regularly allocate to the budget. This Article 99 provides that the provisions of this Act do not apply to the services referred to in Article 2. Article 2 states that the provisions of this law are not applicable to procurements: an organisation which is considered as a contracting entity in the meaning of this law, established for the performance of the provision of services which are subject to public procurement; on the basis of an international agreement; in order to ensure basic living conditions in the case of natural disasters; arms and other procurements which are confidential and protected by specific regulations. I was just saying that in these areas, equal state and social firms appear as suppliers, and that these conditions must be identical to the end. There's no secret that Americans can't reveal from "vacs," and you can protect it by the provisions of this law. Why are you fooling yourself in the first place? Then why declare a secret something that cannot be preserved as a secret. Deputy Prime Minister Perisic goes and shakes everything out to the head of American espionage in the Balkans, and now with this law we will keep some secrets from suppliers. Look, whoever gets himself the goods, he's been followed everywhere in the world, and there's no doubt about it. There are no more secrets who produce this product or who trades it. It's all registered with Interpol, foreign intelligence, foreign police, etc. There's nothing more to hide. Furthermore, financial services, (credit, loan) related to the purchase or lease of land, "building housing or other immovable property, i.e. rights relating to them, regardless of the form in which it is concluded, whether it is concluded at the same time, before or after the conclusion of the purchase contract or the lease of immovable property". This attitude, or this point, was at least needed to be clarified here, since it was not clarified in the law; it could be the only source of confusion and should therefore be deleted. There are various types of financial services in this sense that are related to the purchase or lease of land. On all the laws so far, land could, if in state property, be awarded through public bidding or only exceptionally, without public bidding directly. By the nature of things, this direct assignment had to be much better explained. These direct assignments were mostly abuses. Public auctioning was avoided, and when you look at it, there have been very few public bids in Serbia over the past 10, 20 or 30 years for land allocation for individual housing. There were mostly individual assignments, and they were tied to various corrupt actions. This exception shouldn't stay. If it is built housing, if the government appears as a trader of these facilities, the restriction must also not be in this sense. As in other real estates, of course. According to point 3, the provisions of the law do not apply to the purchase, development, production or co-production of radio and television "programme or time for broadcasting of the programme". Why? State television is purchasing a foreign programme, it should be obliged to obtain according to the provisions of this law. Why would he have the privilege of "anem" or this "network" or "win" or some other foreign agent, which the program has produced over the past years with money from foreign intelligence services? Why should we have a privilege? Maybe they can produce something of quality sometimes. If the state television is buying from them, it's gonna have to call a public competition, if anyone... (President: 5 minutes 30 seconds. I'll finish the next five minutes. If someone's got something better to choose from, it's better. The people of this country are bored with the anti-Serbian programme on state television. Our state television today is worse than Tudjman's Croatian television a few years ago, worse by the anti-Serbian source of hate that we watch every day. You plan on managing the state television by someone else and not being in Serbia's jurisdiction as a state anymore. (From the O.R.: Don't defend Serbia anymore.) All right, well, you're breaking it down to maximum limits. Point 4 says voice telephony, telex, radio-telephony, pager and satellite services. Why aren't there competitions here? The government of the Republic of Serbia should use satellite techniques for certain reasons, for example. Why could she make a direct deal with one of the satellite owners if she could call a competition and get a call from several owners. Now there's a pluralism offer. First, there are several companies in America that own satellites, through which communications are carried out; e.g. Europe already owns more of these satellites; Russia and China own more of these satellites. Our government recognizes its needs through this administration, advertises and who best offers it, chooses it. So here's the competition very logical and necessary. Under point 5, it is said that "alleviated" arbitration and consensual dispute resolution services are "exclusive". This should explain what kind of arbitration services? Where else is arbitration treated as a public procurement? A service of arbitration as a public procurement, where is it in the world? What are you making us do here? I studied Law School, though very briefly, I was forced for two and a half years to finish it. I studied the economy even more thoroughly than the law, and nowhere did I find that any service of arbitration classified as public procurement. You are here in the law talking about the exemption of public arbitration services from the law relating to public procurement. Why? Why didn't you take some more things out here, by the same logic? If the goal was to keep the legal text as long as possible, then you could have stated it in the light of the law, so maybe I could understand you. This is how I don't understand you at all. Point 6) says: "financial services related to broadcasting, sale of purchases, or transfer of securities from value or other financial instruments". Why is this exempt, unless it is financial services that can be provided through the NBJ or the National Bank of Serbia, if it is transformed. If it's about business banks, then it has to be done under the provisions of this law. You know what kind of practice we used to have, I'm going to do a dipression to explain it to you, and various ministries kept accounts in various banks. I fought for two and a half years to concentrate it in one bank or several state banks. It didn't work out, it was impossible to spend. Every minister has determined for himself what bank he'll be in. I am absolutely convinced that each one of them was making some personal benefit, only I wasn't; there were more ministers and I can count them, I can count those that are, which I definitely have. One point 7 is logical, that these are the services of the NBJ, where, by nature, the NBJ appears as a monopoliest. It appears as a monopoliest and in a whole series of other cases, for example in money emissions. It's logical that there are certain jobs here where services will be provided by the National Bank, and it's unimaginable that someone makes it competitive, if that's all she's qualified to do. Labour contracts cannot be treated as public procurement. I don't know any case of being treated like that, unless you're contracting with some company that delivers you labor like veal, juniper, pork, etc. Since it is point 9) - research and development services - these are services that are increasingly expensive and must be treated as public procurement. By the way, there's a lot of corruption going on. I think a whole series of examples of corruption can be found in the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22525	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. (A voice from the hall: TVs will now be turned off in Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22526	I can do the DOS now and turn off the TVs, it'll save the power. It's not about them watching their TVs, it's about saving electricity. Besides, it's useful, since you've collected the power by 50% again. It's about the dialogue between me as an opposition and the ruling majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that a member of 101 who treats additional services be deleted. In several previous amendments, I have tried to prove to you that all works and services, as well as the purchase of goods, must be publicly published and awarded through competitions, that it is always the award of contracts, i.e. jobs to individual suppliers, past the competition forms of fraud and looting of Serbian citizens, taxpayers, robbing of money from the budget. Article 101 states: "The contracting authority may award a public procurement contract in the guessing procedure without prior publication", and states cases where; 1) "in the case of additional services or works not included in the original project or in the first procurement, which have become necessary because of unpredictable circumstances for the execution of the public procurement contract, provided that the contract is awarded to the original service provider or contractor". I was already talking about this problem. She was treated in one of the previous members. The first question is why it repeats itself. With the same explanation that I just denied, and now I would, so I don't have to, hopefully, repeat it. I guess at least three or four people in the O.R. follow me closely as I speak. Others read the newspaper, earn, solve crosswords, etc., depending on the professional willingness of each MP. (a) it is said: "if such additional services or works cannot be separated, technically or economically, from the main public procurement without causing insurmountable difficulties for the client", as a reason for the award without competition. What are these insurmountable difficulties? What is the law of insurmountable difficulty? There are no insurmountable difficulties for the legal order. The legal order regulates a specific life, determines the rules under which this life is carried out, lives. There are no insurmountable difficulties, nor can a legal norm be bound alive by a living man to something that physically cannot stand or endure, as if a man were bound to dive for half an hour without interruption. That's impossible without extra air. Then why do you say something like this here? There is no such thing as insurmountable difficulties. There is a possible damage if the job is not entrusted to whoever has already started the extra job, but to some other potential competition. However, the competition should be called, bids should be considered, as neither one who would report to the additional job would appear if damage was done to the contractor who had already started the work, as this implies damage to the person who does the additional work. b) - "if such services or works are, although the client could assign them separately" from the execution of the original contract, necessary for further stages of the performance of the works, with the overall estimated value of these additional services or works cannot be greater than 25% of the total value of the main public procurement". I've already explained to you what it's like in the practice of huge affairs. It is likely that works from Belgrade to Cačka, in Ibarska masteral, are about 1/4 of the value of the work on asphalting from Belgrade to Nis, not by mileage and the breadth of the road itself, but also the quality of the road that has been found. Someone who got to work the highway, from Belgrade to Nis, gets a chance to provide additional work on the Ibari Master's from Belgrade to Cačka, without a new competition. That's why it has to... It's these Surcinians, or already what they're called, "Smurf-product," I don't know; I guess he knows the interior minister. I suppose a letter came from that minister (repeated to the chairman). I guess we'll get that letter. I guess that's where it stands. Point 2) says that the exception of additional services "to new services or works that represent the repetition of similar services or works performed by the original performer". I've been contesting this a while now. What does that mean if they're the same services, the same jobs or the same goods? That doesn't mean anything in today's degree of technological development. (President: It's been five minutes. ) I use the next five minutes; "on condition that such services or works fit into the basic project". The basic project to obtain toilet paper for the Serbian government is probably a permanent project and will likely be applied to some of the next cabinets. Maybe with smaller amounts, but basically he stays. And why would someone who once got a job propose and was allowed to automatically get new jobs, without checking the market. It is further said: "this option is required by the contracting authority to state in the first publication of a public call". It doesn't mean anything. The possibility of getting a job back -- that possibility can be announced, but again, by conditions of competition, otherwise it loses its meaning. You're bored with this. I don't. You know, I've spent a lot of time preparing these amendments and I'm going to spend a lot of time behind this speaker explaining the meaning of these amendments, and I don't care about your mood at all, because it's about the law and not about you. Furthermore, it is said: "The contracting authority may award a public procurement contract in the process of guessing without prior publication from this point only if it has been less than three years since the conclusion of the first contract". You've limited it to three years. In the case of goods supplied monthly, this means that 36 purchases can be made on the basis of one competition in three years. Do you have any guarantee that in those three years the prices will remain the same? Why didn't you put a provision in the law - on the same terms, that the price based on the competition, the price of the first purchase, should be mandatory for all other purchases. I wouldn't have submitted the amendment at all if you had committed yourself to it. To guarantee the same price for the next three years -- that's great, if you can do it. Great. But you mean the price will change in the meantime, so make a nice deal with one of the suppliers. He will report to the competition, so he will submit an offer based on a 70% lower price than competition. That way, the competition will be eliminated. And that price goes for his first bid, for his first purchase. But then he tells you -- the prices on the market have changed, you can check it out, go to the shops, go to the manufacturers, everyone else, that price has to change. Where's the guarantee that he won't rise by 70% or 80% right now and make up for what he lost by eliminating his competition. There's no guarantee. I've revealed to you here another possibility of corruption. You don't react because you don't care. Now I'm interested in what reasons you're not interested in. In point 3, it is said - "when a contract on public procurement of services is awarded on the basis of competitions for the draft, plan or design referred to in Article 100 of this Act (which has already been discussed), and it should be awarded to one successful candidate or one of the more successful candidates. If there are more successful candidates, the orderer is obliged to call each one to guess." You see, this point makes sense if you reshape, put into a special member, and this one wipes in whole. This would regulate the question of calling a competition for - for an idea solution, because- an idea solution is a much better expression than - a draft, a plan or a design. It's an idea solution, and it's a term used in the right industrial property, and this idea solution includes both a plan and a design and a draft, as well as many other categories that could be influenced. (President: 10 minutes 30 seconds. In that case, it would make sense, but then it would be particularly regulated. That, in fact, wouldn't even fall within the scope of the public procurement law by nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22527	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a subtitle above Articles 102 and 102 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that three new members -- 102a, 102b and 102v, be added after Article 102. Since this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the authorized promoter coming forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose my amendment to erasing the whole of Article 111 because it deals extensively with the issue of granting a contract without prior publication; my insistence to delete it logically is consistent with almost all the previous amendments that I have submitted, which concern similar or similar issues. There are a whole series of options here, in 12 points, to award contracts for public procurement without prior publication; so it is said "if no offers or appropriate offers are received in the public invitation procedure". This, as an exception, could remain on the condition that there is an obligation to invite all previous bidders from a failed competition. We were just reviewing, and hopefully you remembered everything we discussed, that question when I challenged a member of the law that allows the client or government to call only some of the participants in the competition, without any defence regarding meeting the conditions. The government, according to this bill, has seen before, can only choose and conclude a direct contract with them. That's wrong. They must all be called to the conclusion of a direct contract. "If the contract is concluded exclusively for research, experimentation, study or development" - I have already challenged it, I hope sufficiently reasoned and to understand and to accept. "If, for objective reasons or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights, the contract can be completed only by a specific supplier or service provider." This is pointless; very rare cases are that someone has an exclusive monopoly on certain goods. You can't point any goods at me, except coke, where there's only one patent holder, only one owner, where there's no competition, and even with coke, you have a Pepsi Coke. It's absolutely declassified and can only be a source of abuse. Under 4) - "if unforeseen circumstances occur" (and we have already seen how pointless this is) there are state stock reserves. In general, there must be enough goods in the state stock reserves for all these unforeseen circumstances. If there are not enough goods, then the government is politically responding to the National Assembly. At the moment the government was found emptying its stock reserves, it should fall into parliament. And the ruling majority and opposition to vote for the government's shift, by the nature of things. Why would you, as the ruling majority, suffer a government that doesn't have a full stock reserve? Under 5) - "if the contract is awarded for additional delivery of the original supplier" (I have already disputed). Under 6) - "goods offered and bought on the free trade. "Why the exception for the goods offered and bought on the stock exchanges, why this has entered the law here, can anyone explain it. A contract award without prior publication - why shouldn't the Government buy directly on stock exchanges, for example? If the government buys directly on the stock exchanges, it's the same as when the government buys directly at the store or at the warehouse, so no middleman. There's no dispute, no problem, but if the government buys from a supplier who bought goods on the stock market himself, then there's got to be competition. Since one was able to buy goods on the stock exchanges, so is a whole series of others. Then why turn off that competition? We need to clearly distinguish - does the government go directly to the stock market, so it buys, then there's no problem, or someone else buys on the stock market, and then liquidates the government, taking a commission? There he must not be deprived of the need to go to a public competition. There was also talk of additional works and services, but here for point 8) I would say something else about the question of new works and services, which represent repeating similar services or works entrusted to the same performer, or the service provider. You know, with these abuses, which earlier appeared in practice, there was an offensive rule -- I found the situation, when I became the president of the municipality, that there were always books that were given to students for excellent success in elementary and high school, or students who had achieved the best results in the competition, and that's where I contained the monopoly. (President: Five minutes and 30 seconds, MP, do you proceed? I'll continue for the next five minutes. Why do you allow this inert, in which someone is always being embezzled, why don't you break it, by throwing out this restriction, this exclusion of the need for a public competition? Furthermore, point 9 is said to exclude "good supplies due to the use of particularly favourable circumstances, at a price significantly lower than the market price". This circumstance can only apply to the Stock Reserve Directorate. I don't believe that when the government suddenly drops the price of toilet paper, whatever needs toilet paper it will rush to buy in 10 or 20 years. This can only be about the goods that the Stock Reserve Directorate is in charge of. So the price of meat on the market, the Directorate intervenes, to keep the meat price at a certain level, below which it is intolerable for the manufacturer. We've had cases in practice before. And then, when there's the slaughter of a cattle stock, and then the meat price suddenly rises, there's the Stock Reserve Directorate showing up to measure that price, to bring it down to a bearable level. That's what you do with all the other goods that the Stock Reserve Directorate is in charge of. But these are strategic products, it's food first of all, it's oil, gasoline, and other goods, without which you literally can't and because of which there are reserves, to intervene in the conditions of elemental disasters. You know, one of the most basic disasters in the wider sense is the sudden drop in the price of certain goods. For the country, the price of wheat, meat, milk, etc. is unbearable. which destroys manufacturers, as it is intolerable and a sudden leap of those prices. You've demonstrated it in practice as it seems. These prices must always be optimal, moderate, to satisfy the basic interest of the manufacturer, but also to protect the standard of living, the social status of consumers. (A voice from the hall: "A chocolate"? I don't know if chocolates enter the area of goods from stock stores. The baby's gonna get chocolate after the session. Furthermore, point 10 refers to "the purchase of goods under particularly favourable conditions from the bidder that goes into liquidation, with the consent of other creditors, in accordance with the regulations on forced alignment, liquidation and bankruptcy". The government of the Republic of Serbia must not appear on the market as a vulture. Some economic operator is going into liquidation, she's taking advantage of the opportunity to wake up why certain products, certain goods, certain goods, maybe real estate. The government must not appear in this role, because, on the one hand, the Government is also carrying out this process of liquidation, bankruptcy, public bidding, which sells property of taxpayers, who have not settled their debts, etc. It's immoral, the foundation of social morality collapses, that the government appears as well as the one who buys it. Then it's better for the government to prey and assess the real value, so it smells its claims, and not completely destroys its debtor. Here, the government is not prepared to acknowledge the real value when it settles its claims, but rather force the debtor to bankruptcy, to liquidate, to sell out the assets, and then appear in that desperate state, as someone who will take advantage of the opportunity and get their hands on the property at a baffle price. No government can do that anywhere in the world. Consult a parallel right, if there are cases in Western Europe that the government is doing this, that someone has been expelled from the house because he has not paid taxes and has no money to pay, that the house is selling at a public auction price, so that it appears itself as a buyer. In order to protect the social situation of its population, it is much more logical for the government to assess the real value, so it says it is worth so much and so much, so if someone who owns it owes a little less to the government, that the government pays the difference, to protect him and his family, and then to the house after it has been made available, sells, assigns or does something with it, which is within its jurisdiction. That makes sense. The government must not appear as a vulture compared to its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22529	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22530	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 112, which I am contesting and where I am asking for a change in attitude 1 and for a sentence to be added after the point, which I have formulated, refers to a ban on the participation of entities, both domestic and foreign. I ask that later - the right to participate in the draft competition cannot be limited by territoriality or property of a natural or legal person) of a participant in a contest - add sentences - unless a natural or legal person, an addictive sentence has its head office in a country with which the SRJ does not conclude an agreement on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders. Yesterday I explained why this is necessary; for the same reason our country and many other countries in the world need customs duties. The fact that tomorrow someone who raises bridges much better or paves roads faster, for example, or with more machinery, and the quality of the works to remain the same, or something cheaper, does not mean that they should be entrusted with the job and leave without the job of a domestic company. I explained yesterday and I mentioned it this morning, public procurement policy is part of the overall economic policy, a very important part. The state is the biggest consumer on the market, the biggest buyer, the state has the most money. The whole economy depends on who the state will buy goods from and who the state will pay for services to. There is no state in a civilized world that gives priority to domestic producers and domestic service providers, no state has. We'd be the first state to fully equalize domestic and foreign entities. We're not ready enough and capable. What state can even domestic and foreign entities? It's a country that's confident in advance that its subjects are more capable, stronger and able to resist any competition. There's only one country that's getting pretty close to that ideal, and that's Japan. Imagine now, America is completely opening its market to Japanese companies. Almost all American companies would lose their jobs, the Japanese are much cheaper, their technology is more advanced, they have safer and more disciplined workers, experts, engineers, etc. It closes, America closes, Europe closes in this regard. We need to close our country down to a certain extent. I'm not saying absolutely, there's a danger of absolute closure, and then there's the concept of autistic economy, which stops economic development and destroys it at the very end. There must be some kind of protective barrier. One of these protection barriers is the one that I advocate, that these countries whose companies would appear as bidder, be countries where our companies will have the same status, to achieve this by bilateral international contracts. I have an idea that this is also regulated in a different way, to determine the percentage of the average value of the customs rate, and whether it is 10 or 20% to see that whoever appears from abroad as the offerer of the sea, i.e. the contractor, the potential contractor, must pay in the amount of that medium customs value on the basis of the total value of the job. For example, if a highway is made from Nis to the Bulgarian border or from Leskovec to Macedonia, that both domestic and foreign companies can participate in a public competition, provided that they do not go to the sale of licences; if they go to the sale of licences, they are immediately different conditions and are regulated by another law. So, if it's a clean job, I'm just making an example of this, because it's probably much more convenient when it comes to a license, if it's a clean job, if the state shows up as an investor, like the one who pays the job or from Belgrade, or from Novi Sad to the Hungarian border, to do the second track or to do the highway from Belgrade to Podgorica, to say that they can participate both domestic and foreign companies. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. ) In order to make the conditions, if foreign firms win the competition they have to reject 10% or 20%...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22531	People's MP, do you use five other minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22532	For the next five minutes. It means 10 or 20% of the total value of the job to refuse them on a scale of customs duties. When you import jobs, it's the same as when you import goods, even with worse consequences for the national economy. You are importing labor, importing foreign engineers, techniques, etc. This prevents the development of domestic businesses. In some ways, it must be protected. Which is an optimal customs rate, it can be seen, but the restriction must exist. We will be in a situation, foreign countries are able to help their companies to show up at the competition with dumping prices, that for the first year, or the first two or three years, they go with dumping prices and get all the jobs and completely destroy domestic companies. After the third year of dumping prices are no longer necessary, since domestic competition does not exist. Domestic production must be protected, domestic operators must be protected. Of course, it's all funny to you, it's all boring to you, I'm surprised you're even sitting in front of an empty room, talking to a nation, people who understand this problem, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22533	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22534	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are discussing article 112, which is being suppressed by monopolies, and in 119, a procedure has been laid down to suspend the award of public procurement contracts, if any of the interests of our economy are injured. It's like the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Parliament. The Rules of Procedure guarantee the rights of each MP, and other members of the Rules of Procedure also set out the obligations of the Members. You can't reconcile each other in the same article. So, it would be good if MPs who defend amendments in this business respected the law as a whole, and this is how we are forced to correct, correct and remind ourselves that it is impossible to make a law with one member, even when someone is trying to present this to us. Article 112 destroys monopolies, and Article 119 defines the procedure for suspending business if some of the business interests of our businesses are injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22535	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22536	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 113 paragraph 1 (a) provides for an amount of 300 million dinars, to know what this is about, is the case when a preliminary survey is being carried out to obtain offers from the fields of energy, water industry, telecommunications, traffic and the like. So under the amount of 300 million dinars, jobs are supposed to be negotiated without prior questioning. The Soviet Parliament Group believes that this amount should be halved because you will admit, since our people understand the expression in stamps better, it is 10 million marks, and our proposal is that this amount be halved and that, without prior consideration, businesses under 150 million dinars can be negotiated. Also, under point 2), we have an amount of 50 million, which we suggest is replaced by 30 million. This is when it comes to the estimated total value of transactions in the service category. You can imagine a service of 50 million dinars; we think it's an extremely high figure and I think these amendments to Article 113 are actually a continuity in the efforts of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group to win this law on seriousness and on reality. We think these numbers are too large and unrealistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22537	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22538	It's true, Mrs. Komic, that I don't have a card, because while I was at the pay phone, someone stole my card from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22539	I ask the MP to follow the Rules of Procedure and report his card to the Assembly’s competent service, in order to be issued a provisional card.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22540	I didn't lose my card, it was stolen from me while I was at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22541	For reasons you don't have a card, we don't go in. It's about the fact that you don't own a card right now. This is the information that registers with the congregation service.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22542	It was logical to invite MPs of the ruling majority to return my card. Here, I won't look and I won't determine who he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22543	No matter what kind this is, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you're not formally registered in the O.R., you're welcome to defend your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22544	If it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I won't speak. If it's legal to steal my card while I'm at the pay phone, then I won't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22545	It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure if you are currently giving information to the National Assembly and chair that you do not have a registered card in the MP's unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22546	Which member is breaking?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22547	Article 82 on the obligation of the Members to register at the entrance to the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22548	I'm registered, I came into the O.R., I put in a card, and just now while I was at the pay phone, someone stole a card.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22549	In the name of tolerance, you have the right to your five minutes, or five plus five, as president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22550	There, as you can see, time has not yet begun to flow. Did you find my card? That's nice of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just before Cedomir Jovanovic, has been plowing with my challenge to Article 112, mentioned Article 119, not knowing that I have an amendment to that article. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Has Veroljub Arsic.) No, I have an amendment. The faith of Arsic has been counter-worked from the Assembly. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Who submitted the amendment? I've put up with it. (Kedomir Jovanovic: It is not true. Wait, what does this mean now? Is this my amendment, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22551	The amendment to article 119 was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj, in the same text as the amendment submitted before him by MP Veroljub Arsic and informed the National Assembly that his amendment had withdrawn. Every MP has the right to exercise his rights in the Rules of Procedure, and MP Vojislav Seselj has submitted an orderly amendment to Article 119.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22552	Does Cedomir Jovanovic have the right to challenge my authorship of the bench amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22553	This is the last time I give a warning to both the speaker and the National Assembly that the dialogue between MPs and speakers is not allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22554	Article 119 does not regulate the question I was just talking about under Article 112. An exception is being made here, and it is said that the Government may, in the federal ministry's opinion obtained; it may but may not, if it obtains the opinion of the federal ministry responsible for economic relations with abroad, suspend the award of public procurement contracts to providers established in the country with which SR Yugoslavia does not have a final contract on equal treatment of domestic and foreign providers; bidders who are connected with bidders referred to in point 1) and tenderers whose service is subject to a country with which Yugoslavia has not concluded the relevant contract. I'm asking that instead of "can" it stands for "must." So he can't deal with such bidders if our businesses don't have the same treatment in their countries and delete the word "temporary". There is no need to obtain the opinion of the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad at all. Why? There's one principle. These kinds of jobs can only be concluded with economic operators from those countries where our economic operators have equal treatment. If our companies under the same conditions can participate in competitions issued by the Hungarian government, Hungarian firms in Serbia can. There is nothing more logical than that and therefore, Cedomir Jovanovic had just been wrong when he challenged my argument of the amendment, because this issue is not regulated here. It's just that there's a possibility in some exceptional case that such a job will be suspended temporarily. Temporary suspension is no guarantee, and the exception can only confirm the rule, not challenge it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22555	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Replica or the president of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22556	It'll be a replica. It'll take a little while. On the condition that Serbia is not seen as a country that is sufficient for itself, we can recognize reason in Article 119. The law, which allows the government to suspend the procurement process temporarily if it receives the consent of the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. Why this particular ministry? Because it is his job to develop economic relations with abroad and through this process to determine the extent to which our economic interests are being realised and to what extent they are being challenged by an unfair relationship. Our ambition is to be part of a united Europe. Our ambition is the World Trade Organisation, our ambition is the smooth flow of goods, people and services, and I think that by adopting this amendment, something like that would be suspended. Therefore, there is no reason why formal conclusion of a contract on equal treatment between domestic and foreign bidders would be a reason for discrimination. It is discrimination, and something like that the modern models of state order and union don't recognize, and we can't support that. There's a possible belief that we're self-sufficient, maybe in some situations, and certainly not in business.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22557	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? As president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22558	There is no discrimination here, not at least in the sense that the Constitution and legal order would not be allowed. You know, discrimination is a common phenomenon in the world. When looking for a visa for Germany, you will be informed on the spot that there are countries whose citizens come very easily to a German visa, such as Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary. There are countries whose citizens are quite hard to get a German visa, such as Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, and there are countries whose citizens are almost impossible to get a German visa, such as. Pakistan or Bangladesh. Each country protects its own interests and in the movement of citizens, in the protection of the right of interest of economic operators, etc. This law could eventually provide for an exception, even if our economic operators are not equal in foreign countries, to allow a foreign company to be a supplier, if it is impossible to find a domestic supplier. And not an exception to the rules, that everyone is equal regardless of what country they're from. We are only interested in one kind of co-operation with other countries of the world: only equal co-operation. This country and this people are not interested in any other form of co-operation. Perhaps your authority is interested, because you are more willing to listen to some foreign states than to represent your people's interests; this can be looked at by many examples of practice, especially those of the top one, when Goran Svilanovic accepted the delivery of 12,000 hectares of the Serbian country from the left bank of the Danube; she took a shit in public, so she took a quick silence on the matter. Here you show how you protect Serbian national interests. However, in this case, the domestic citizen is incomparable. Never can a stranger be equal to a domestic citizen in everything, in any country in the world, so neither can we. Foreign rights are respected, but those based on international public law and relevant UN documents, the OSCE etc. A stranger can never be completely equal, because then he wouldn't be called a stranger. Thus, even a foreign company cannot be fully equal with a domestic company, and you have made this legal project completely even, leaving the possibility in an exceptional case to suspend the execution of the job, while I guess some problem can be solved. They're even, because you've given domestic subjects all kinds of restrictions. Here you have not protected domestic economic operators at all, and one mind government would primarily take care of it; I have repeatedly told you that public procurement policy is a very important component of the overall economic policy; this should be understood, this should be learned, there are textbooks written on this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22559	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22560	Mrs. Comic, I only applied for the replica because of the incorrect information that MP Seselj presented, citing an example from the activities of Federal Foreign Minister Mr. Svilanovic. It's a whole series of nonsense. None of the things you mentioned were argued. I don't think it will do us much good to paint acres, but I urge you to measure how many thousands of square miles of today's Serbia is away from the one we lived in 1991 and how many accidents remain in those areas that our predecessors, along with you, have so successfully defended. Political unity and economic equality are two different categories in the economy. We have no right to insist on equality and situations where it is not in the interest of our citizens. An example of medical equipment may be the clearest example we want to follow. Despite all the washing, we cannot accept that argument, because it would endanger the interests of the very people in whose interest we are obliged to act politically. Therefore, the Government is left with the possibility to suspend the procurement process temporarily, if any of our interests are at stake: if there is any equipment produced in this country, if the purchase of other equipment of the same quality will endanger our internal market. If it doesn't exist, then cheap politics can't be an argument to something like that. We want to have Simmons's machines in our hospitals because they're the best. We want Simmons to open its plants in Serbia, to engage our electronic industry. Until that happens, we won't advise people to treat themselves with third-rate equipment, we won't offer them third-rate drugs just because they're ours or that they're cheaper. We are obliged to offer citizens the best and to enable our economy to reach that level where its competition is; and that will be done. This law has nothing to do with politics and the principle of political equality cannot be translated into economic categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22561	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is extremely political. It regulates one of the most important issues of economic policy. Whoever comes out for a pay phone and says this law has nothing to do with politics has no idea about the laws or politics. Secondly, our country has a market. This market is measured by the number of inhabitants and the purchasing power of the population. The market itself is worth it. That value can be realised, can be sold properly. How is the market sold as a value? It's sold by someone who's interested in showing up on our market before they have to meet certain conditions. The question arises: what is better; whether to let Simens take over our market immediately and flood it with its own goods or not to let anyone flood their goods with our market until the issue of privatisation and finding a foreign partner for the electronics industry is resolved. It is better that no one can take over our market from that area of production until the issue of the electronic industry is resolved. If our market is flooded with foreign technical goods, then no one will be interested in the electronics industry anymore, except to buy naked land or buildings. That's the kind of example we have of banks. What was our interest? To heal the banks, to remove all their dues, to sell as such in general or to destroy the banks, to sell now and to house their business space. These are the fundamental differences between our economic concepts. We Serbian radicals have the concept of protecting domestic production. You don't have a concept like that. Furthermore, hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of Serbian territory, Serbia's Krajina, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, occupied the same ones that financed your arrival in power. As far as the surrender of 12,000 hectares of Serbian land on the left bank of the Danube Croats is concerned, they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22563	I ask the MP to return to the subject, it is Article 120 and Amendment to Article 120.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22564	I'll be right back. I've got 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22565	Article 120 treats the preferential award of the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22566	That's what your DOS press said. They responded to the congregations of the Apatin municipalities, where you have the power, Sombor, where you have the power, Bach, and I think you have the power, as far as I can remember. They reacted and took a shit in public and then Svilanovic shut up. I refer only to the information I have come to from your messages and public statements by DOS authorities in Apatino, Bac, Sombor and some other municipalities. As for the member, DOS mania -- that's right, Shandor, Shandor corrects me, DOS-manley is, you're right, you're right, you know best what kind of authority you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22567	I ask the MP to return the subject in the fourth minute, amendment to Article 120.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22568	Article 120 refers to the preferential allocation of public procurement contracts. So it's about preferences, a very sensitive and very delicate question. Here I ask that item 1) be deleted, item 1, and where it is said: "If two offers or more offers are equal, on the basis of the criteria set out in Articles 54, 55 and 56 of this Law, the contracting authority is obliged to give priority to offers: 1) whose assignment cannot be suspended under Article 119 of this Law." She can't be stopped. You don't say exactly what, how. Since we asked in Article 119, and you didn't vote on it, to completely delete such an item, and to install our previous amendment, so that only companies from those countries in which our economic operators are equal and have the same treatment, so if you adopt those amendments, then there's no need to remain this provision. So, to remain that provision that is much wider, more serious and based on the comprehensive protection of the interests of our business entities, not just on partial protection, protect as opportunities. Here's the word, if both, if both foreign and domestic contractors work... (President: 5.30 minutes. ) I continue, since Cedomir Jovanovic has left, there is no one left to pollute with me, so I can continue. So here only in case the domestic bidders are even with the foreign conditions, then the domestics can have the advantage. However, when a foreign bidder has slightly more favourable conditions, it does not already have the advantages of the home. That's wrong. At least that's where the percentage of deviations must be determined. They cannot be absolutely equal to the foreign and domestic bidders and cannot have an advantage at home only when their offers are completely identical. The domestics must also have an advantage when the offer is slightly more unfavourable than the foreign one, and this is the simplest expression in percentages - 10%, 15%, 20%. It may be optimally 10%, but it must be seen that it is a protected domestic bidder. Or how much better it can be calculated. Calculate how many countries are going to charge taxes from a domestic bidder, if he gets that job, on the basis of salary taxes, taxes on total income, or on profit taxes, etc. Calculate this and add to the offer of a foreign bidder. If this additional amount exceeds the domestic producer's offer, it cannot be accepted. If he doesn't get over it, he can take it. That's the simplest thing. It's a pure economic account. You must always know-- the money you pay for, to some extent, is returned to the government through taxes. If you pay a stranger, you don't get anything or almost nothing back, very little. If you pay for your home company, you get a lot back. That's your economic interest, then. The easiest thing to do is to completely destroy domestic economic operators. Who are you going to charge after tax? Train them by providing them under more favourable conditions of business, by paying even higher taxes in the future, based on the same tax rate to charge them a higher amount. A smart government in your place would have hit that tax rate a long time ago. She's intolerable to the vast majority of businesses, to let you know on the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22569	Right to the replica, MP Pal Shandor, based on a reference to the name in the presentation of the People's MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22570	I'm obliged to really commend Mr. Seselj for holding our sermons here the other day. I can't figure out when he says "proposer," what it is, whether he's an offerer; or when he says "a dog": which "dog", I guess they pick up someone somewhere or a house. He just said "dinner," and I don't know if it's nighttime or bigger. So I listen very carefully. The only thing I can't figure out is if someone fell into the night or the dark or what was going on. Then I was completely surprised when he said "DOS authorities" here; because it's normal because I live in that movie, "DOS-manley authorities," that we're foreign mercenaries, traitors, etc., it was simply unusual for me, because I've been programmed to listen to another story here for days; as someone who owes correction and for correct language views, as he said in the morning, and that such mistakes and failures don't happen to him in speech, then as a lecturer from the last bench, I correct him and I don't see that anything was problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22571	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 121. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22572	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 121, paragraph 2 of the word "four years", is replaced by the words "ten years". It's an amendment to the USSR. I'll try to explain briefly why we submitted this amendment. Article 121 states: "The contracting authorities are obliged to keep documentation on the award of contracts in the areas of water, energy, telecommunications and transport, relating to the qualification and selection of bidders and the award of public procurement contracts, the application of the procedure without prior publication provided for in Article 111 of this Act, the award of public procurement contracts, the use of technical specifications and standards and the selection of public procurement procedures, when the provisions of this law are not applied." The documentation of statements 1 of this article shall be made available to the contracting authority for at least four years (please pay attention to this) from the date of conclusion of the contract, and the data shall be made available to the competent authority at its request." We have to agree that the above-mentioned jobs, which are the jobs of infrastructure investment and larger-scale businesses, can take many years. It can easily happen that we don't have the need to keep records, and the job isn't done yet. On the other hand, in a few years after the destruction of this document or the removal or application of this article, it may occur that the need to re-engage the same firms, or to re-implement the procedure. It is certainly more correct for this documentation to be available, especially as it relates to a limited number of jobs and participants in this business. In addition, it's a matter of very high value. Also, investment needs in infrastructure facilities do not occur every year. So, after someone's 10 years, it's logical that there's a need for a job like that. We consider this deadline that we have proposed, which is 10 years, quite appropriate. That means, practically, it'll all be available. It's not a big amount of documentation, it's not a big physical job either, it's the only question of where the paperwork is kept. Then you'll have to agree with me that a number of documentation of an extremely minor importance than mentioned here is kept for up to 10 years, so I don't see any single reason why you don't adopt this amendment. I would just like to mention one more thing, if you look closely at Article 121, in my opinion and in my personal opinion, the end of this article should be Article 3. After that, we have three other attitudes, which are absolutely without any logical, languages and any other connection to previous attitudes. I think the proposer should look at it, put it in another member or delete it from this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22573	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Are any of the authorized participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Financial Committee has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the authorized promoter coming forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22574	Ladies and gentlemen, it is this section that treats the issue of public procurement records, i.e. keeping records and types of data on public procurement. Article 125(2) states: "When awarding public procurement contracts for services listed in Annex IB and telecommunications services referred to in point 5. The Annex IA records shall not be kept unless the value of these procurements exceeds 12.5 million dinars. "I think it's too large to be deprived of the obligation to record. That's why I suggest that Section 2 be deleted. And as for this very interesting debate on the law on public procurement and on Mr. Sandor Pal's exposure, I'd have to step up a little bit, if I didn't owe him. I know that his mother is Serbian and that his Serbian language is native, which means very, very close. But some things, as a language expert, would still have to be considered. When it comes to these very related vowels, very similar sounds, such as "c" and "c" and "j" and "j" (votes - consonants) consonants...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22575	People's MP, I warn you that you have no right to reply but to discuss the amendment to Article 125.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22576	Wait, you just let Mr. Shandor talk about it. I'm talking about the amendment and what happened during the previous debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22577	National MP, if you have been given the floor for discussion in the details of the amendment to Article 125, then it is a subject and you are required by the Rules of Procedure to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22578	That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about why you're wasting my time, and I thought I'd only use five minutes. But I am obliged to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22579	Your time is exclusively in your possession and no one can spend it on you except yourself, but you are obliged to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22580	Well, I'm talking. I'm talking about the debate. But in the debate, there is also a need for dyspressions. They are very important and apply to this law. I'll explain how they behave. First, the consonants "j" and "j" and the consonants "c" and "c" have related sound. Now, that soundiness is very individually manifested in practice. Mr. Shandor should know that the Praeslavian language had a lot of votes. These votes are, for example, interspecies. Saved in Russian. They were lost in Serbian, but still in some archaic examples can be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22581	Members of the Parliament, I ask you to bring in your consignors and vowels in connection with the procurement of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22582	Here, I'm getting in touch right now, and that's the point. You know, when children learn in elementary school, they find it a little harder to understand the difference between the letter "c" and "c" and "j" and "j", they tell them about the hard "c" and "c" and "c" and "c" and "c". Now, what's by nature hard in one case can be, as in mine, very, very hard, and in Sandor's case soft; what by nature things are soft in my case can be quite hard, and with him incredibly soft. [[Laughter]] So it's very pointless...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22583	National MP, for the last time, I warn you that next time you will have a warning because you do not adhere to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22584	I'm just explaining from a professional, linguistic aspect. There's nothing offensive here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22585	Bring the digression into contact with the law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22586	I'll be right there. In this debate on the law on public procurement, I am almost the only one, honoring some exceptions from other parties, which I was talking about the law itself, and highly professionally, with a great deepening in its content, and all the digressions you of the ruling parliamentary majority have imposed here. Some benching, some behind the pay phone, etc., and I want to let you know that I'm not going to run away from your dyspressions either. And when you measure what's natural, things are hard with me, you all know it. And what's soft about me is pretty hard, and you're incredibly soft, incomprehensiblely soft.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22587	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Pal Shandor, a replica based on false interpretation. [[Pal Shandor - replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22588	Mr. Seselj, what is hard should be hard on you, and what is naturally soft should be soft on you, not the other way around, as you said. Secondly, with you, if you're going to, let's just analyze it, and my colleagues analyze it, just so you know, and show it as a bad example of political speech, where a top politician, president of the party, doesn't actually know he's speaking right and he's got a spiral. That means the next thing you know, you're kind of cute, but in this letter, the "r" part of the tongue has to hit the palate three times, and you don't hit three times. in the palate; therefore, you "r" don't know how to articulate properly, so you say, "las blue instead" debate, or say something else, and you can't say it as necessary, as it is in French, because it's a nasal articulation. [[Laughter]] So you have to learn to say "r" right -- gender; but you don't know how to say it. Therefore, in order not to speak - the dog, so that I don't know whether it's a house or a dog, or what it is; and whether it's evening or it's bigger, because there's a difference; whether it's a debate or a lass blue, whether it's consistent or related; means three times, you have to develop awareness that the applicative part of your tongue blows three times into the palate, not four or not twice. Now, Mr. Seselj, in order for you to do this as a top politician, you have to go to the logo. They are experts in developing this to you, in order to of course you can take a place on a political scene, because those who are involved in politics must also correctly articulate, because what is transmitted via television is kind of language norms. Imagine the kids watching this; they'll say, they're raising dogs, you know, and the kid goes somewhere and says, "They're raising dogs and now we don't really know what they're raising." If the kids look up to you, it'll be very bad. You're a very bad language example. So that's why I was saying a little bit, two or three times you jumped ideologically out of that matrix I'm used to, and then I had to warn you because you've been up all day trying to make it a language to correct you. I didn't lean or impose, but when there was a chance, I did answer. It means ideological and linguistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22589	The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22590	Mr. Shandor should know (votes - Pal), Mr. Shandor, that's his name, and I can tell him Mr. Shandor and Mr. Pal; when you say Mr. Pal, it's a much higher level of officiality. When you say Mr. Shandor, then it's a little more intimate, and it's not offensive; therefore, there's no reason to be angry, except to publicly declare that it's absolutely against any kind of intimacy, even those that are natural, because unnatural intimacy cannot be found with us Serbian radicals, although you can be in the government of Serbia; it should know that it's spray or what it's said -- the spray feller, I don't know, it's true, there's something that I don't know -- it can be a natural flaw with which God created us. But you should remember that my great predecessor, from whom I taught school, the greatest speaker of the ancient world, Demosten, also had a speech flaw, so that didn't bother him at all. (Glasses) He's right. He put stones in his mouth to cover it up, but he could never correct it. Let it go. He didn't make it right, you didn't read it right. I'm not Demosten, so I don't put a pebble in my mouth and I don't need to. And as for the language issues that were discussed here, we discussed literacy, not an excuse. As far as this law is concerned, the government has passed the literacy exam, and as for the pronunciation of certain ministers, I am here on a huge advantage. For example, at the bottom of Minister Djelic's table, my language is so much more pleasant, so much more natural, so much more subtle, too, here, Mr. Pal helps me; and if nothing, my tongue is uncomparably masculine. When a man comes out for a pay phone, a man's tongue is expected, when a lady comes out for a pay phone, a woman's tongue is expected. Of course, we live at the beginning of the third millennium, when some new categories are introduced; and the third half, and the fourth half, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22591	People's MP, I warn you, you have five minutes to discuss the amendment, not the depression you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22592	I won't go too far. You haven't said a word to Mr. Shandor Pal because of his dypressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22593	Mr. Pal Shandor was entitled to a replica, the contents of the replica refer to what the MP thinks should be the contents of the replica. You've been given the word as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22594	It can't be that way, it can't be without any sense of what it's replicating to, please don't. (Pal Shandor, from the scene: it made sense. There wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22595	Please return to the debate on the amendment to Article 125.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22596	I have a minute and a half left, please don't interrupt me, because it's a precious minute and a half. In this case, we have a situation where someone who is waiting for a man's voice appears behind this pay phone with a woman's voice, and there's a problem, unlike my problem by saying the "r" word. It's not so bad that a man would have to seek medical help, but one where sex is confused, where it's unclear whether it's male or female, can be cured. All he has to do is convince him that treatment is necessary. What he likes about that status, what he feels like his own need, is that he needs to be crushed by that consciousness and made with good words to heal himself; so that men are always men, that women be women, and that the basic meaning of men and women is to give birth to children, to leave their offspring, not to invent third sexes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22597	People's MP, please bring your speech into contact with the types of public procurement. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 128. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted the amendment to Article 128. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We are going to the second amendment to Article 128. Members of the 128th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22598	I get to be a man, to give up. Men never give up, so I don't give up either. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 134, which refers to the application for the protection of the rights injured under this law, I suggest that only points 4 and 5 be deleted in Section 4.) and 5. It is said: "The applicant is required to provide the following information in the application for protection of the right" (and some data are listed which are really necessary), and point 4 says "infringing the provisions of this law in respect of the procurement procedure and point 5) "the facts which prove the breach of the provisions of this law regarding the procurement procedure". You know, there are some things that are meant to be. The assumption is that, if someone is seeking protection of rights, there are serious reasons for this, that the one seeking protection has seen serious irregularities in the process. Because of this fact, no one has to be punished with some excessive punishment for the protection of rights, however, some other things need to be specified here. One who submits a request for protection doesn't have to be a good lawman. He points to the problem that was created. It is not even necessary to properly call on a certain member of the law, but the fact that he feels that his rights are violated and that he absorbs in the complaint, in his complaint that explains there, which explains it, etc., it is sufficient that the competent state authority is obliged to resolve it by his appeal. Whether it is a violation of the law or not, and what provisions of the law, it will be determined by the competent authority. He must not even be tied to the determination of a legal member in his own complaint. It must not be any frame, which he will blindly adhere to. It's enough for him to get a complaint, so he can examine the groundwork of the appeal regarding all the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22599	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to the second amendment to Article 134. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stankovic to Article 134. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 134 of the proposed law. This Article defines the way in which applications for the protection of the rights of the tenderer are submitted, so it is provided that the applicant is obliged to provide data in the application for protection of the right, such as the name and address of the applicant, the contracting authority, etc., and inter alia, it is intended to pay a fee of 40,000 dinars, i.e. 20,000 dinars. The amount of tax here is arranged so that for public procurement the higher value of a tax of 40,000 dinars, a public procurement a less value of a tax of 20,000 dinars. With the amendment I have submitted, I propose that in Article 134(4), the amount of 40,000 dinars be replaced by 20,000 dinars, and in paragraph 5, the amount of 20,000 dinars is replaced by 10,000 dinars. The proposed amount and tax are excessively high and will simply reject persons, who participated as bidders in the procurement process, from the protection of their rights. We believe that the amounts proposed by us are more appropriate and the financial power of our citizens, that is, the bidders, and yet they are high enough not to be affected by the unfounded objections of the one who has to decide. We think this amendment is good and we suggest that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22601	Does anyone want a word from authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, did not accept this amendment. Whether or not someone wants a word on behalf of the applicant for the amendment. There is a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22602	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 145 and Article 146. The Soviet Union wants to point out one of the many shortcomings that have actually been subdued by the legislators of this law, which is that the penalties are extremely low. Article 145 says that a fine of 100 to 200 000 dinars will punish the purchaser for the offence and then be listed for which, and for the violation of Article 1 of this article, the responsible person of the orderer will be punished by fines of between seven thousand and ten thousand dinars. Please, if we need to talk about these numbers at all; we talked about 300 million, 500 million, 30 and 50, we're shooting at numbers that are extremely large, and then we say we're threatening to punish seven thousand, to ten thousand dinars. I think we have absolutely one discontinuity: on the one hand, an attempt to show the law as serious, fundamental, etc., and on the other hand, in the area where sanctions are, there are actually funny figures. In fact, our party's amendment suggests that the amount of 200,000 be replaced by a million dinars, although through this discussion you can conclude that these are very low figures, given the size of the transactions involved, when it comes to a responsible person being up to 100,000 dinars. The government's statement of refusal of the amendment is also unacceptable, as the government says these penalties are within the law on violations. We all remember very well, it wasn't long ago when we discussed in this room the Law on the Construction of Objects, where a prison sentence is scheduled for up to three years, remember well, for a person who performs works on a building without a building permit, for an investor who builds an object without a building permit, for a responsible person in a public utility that enables a connection to a plumbing or sewerage, for a responsible person in a power distribution that allows the connection of electricity to an illegal facility. Now let's compare the public procurement of over 300 million dinars and more and one such offense that we threatened with jail time. So, the government's argument absolutely cannot go through and nothing is limited that the sanctions provided for by this law must be within the law on infringements. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22603	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 149th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I find that we have completed the examination of the bill in particular. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. And this is what we've done with this agenda. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m., when we'll continue our work on the agenda in the afternoon. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon, and I ask you to determine if we have a quorum to work on. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, in writing, withdrew amendments to Articles 4 and 5. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I would ask the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to sign up to the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of Delivery, in accordance with the order set out, a list of MPs applying for participation in the debate in principle. Please do it as soon as possible so we can continue our work on this agenda. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Rodoljub Sabic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? The word has a minister, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22605	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act in the state bodies. My task is to give an opening statement as a representative of the Government for this proposal; I sincerely hope that it will not be long and that I will save your precious time, because there are objective reasons for that. First of all, it is a relatively short text of only 20 members, and that is the basic reason; secondly, at first sight it is quite clear that a recognizable idea is dominated by the law which this parliament absorbed several months ago. So, let me remind you, several months ago, in a truly extremely interesting debate, one of the most disturbing ones we've ever had, one of the most interesting in the heat of dialogue, by the number of amendments, by controversial attitudes, by many pleasures and dissatisfactions, this Parliament passed the Labour Act. Whatever we think today about this law, the quality of its individual solutions, the justified support or dissatisfaction of certain institutions in that law, the dissatisfaction of the union with the absence of an appropriate social atmosphere for the adoption of that law, there is one thing that cannot be questioned, and this law cannot be denied, regardless of certain shortcomings it has, legitimateizes as transition and reform. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely undeniable that this law for all time has made a lasting step, an evident and indisputable distance from the concept of working relationship; which has dominated this society for years, based on some irrational principles of the Law of Association, and has led to the state of consciousness that the working relationship has been seen more as a principle of some voluntary membership for us; so man has been in a working relationship if he wanted to, and his working relationship has ceased if he did not want to, and otherwise this status and this relationship has not depended on any way of working, on the results of work, on relationships with work obligations and so on. So, that story stayed behind. It is absolutely certain that there are declassified in this country, and until yesterday very happily used passwords: radio - no radio, play radio or they can't pay me as little as I can do. So it was passed by the Labour Act, a new concept of working relationship which, in direct, perhaps rough, perhaps painful, but quite realistic and necessary way, puts an employee and his working position in a real relationship to his responsibilities, abilities and results. It's like that and it was just necessary. The country which has allowed itself that, after a period of 10 years, and that I am not now absorbing possible reasons for this, they bring their social product down to a third, so that from a decent European social product it has fallen to barely decent African, it cannot afford the luxury of not doing the most valuable, most capable and the best. They have to work even when there are no jobs for others, because they create a new value, they create reproduction, they create a basis for others to do it afterwards. Although this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, had months ago ensured that this law, this new relationship and the new atmosphere have become dominant in most of the work relations, because the problem of the state administration is marginal in relation to the overall sphere of working relations, then it is quite certain that the time has come for the state administration to share part of that atmosphere and to submit the working relationship in the state administration to the same principles and the same criteria on which we have based our working relationship in the overall economy. Of course, it can't be identical. When I say the same, I mean mutatis mutantdis, so there is something that is specific to the state administration, in all countries, so it will be specific in Serbia, but the basic spirit, the basic criterion of the Labour Act must be incorporated into this law and that is done. So, if you look at Article 7 of the Law, especially him, but also certain provisions that regulate the disciplinary procedure, you will see that in an unequivocal way calling is much easier to lose, that working relationship is much easier to lose, but that is not abstraction, but is in direct correlation with the results of work and responsibility before working relationships. That's right, that's how it should be and that's good. While we are already talking about some specific instruments in relation to what the Labour Act has done, and surely there are only a few things that cannot be bypassed, which are characteristic of the state of employment in the state of government. First of all, it would certainly not be good to go around a famous member of 17, or something that some, I think wrongly, call a legal basis for lustration. So it's not about lustration. Under lustration, regardless of the non-standard concept of this term, we mean the process of some cleaning, given the criteria that are ideas, ideological, political. Here it's not; here it's simply about the extraordinary evaluation, the evaluation of the work of the workers. I am openly and publicly stressing that there is no speech on the definition of political criteria, attitudes, belongings, but simply according to the results of the work. We cannot say that there is no reason for this, that we are very impressed with the results of the work of our state administration; during a period that will not last long, six months from the entry into force of this law, there will be an opportunity to evaluate the results of the workers' work in the administration and, depending on that assessment, to bear a certain coincidence, again in accordance with the law. Another specific person, as a clear distinction to the economy, is a formalized disciplinary procedure. It's also a normal coincidence. I said, never and no working relationship in the state authorities was identical, neither conceptual nor formal, with a working relationship in the economy; neither is here. Such solutions are from a comparative right, all neighbouring countries and other countries know this concept of disciplinary procedure; we, unlike the solutions of the Labour Act, have kept it. The third specificism from the administrative - state view is the solution contained in Article 16, actually related to something less - a more certain or uncertain perspective of employees in the bodies of the federal state. I don't want to waste my time, nor to explain, it's quite clear that the powers of a new state or a state community, we'll see what happens, there'll certainly be a lot of ropes and as such demand for the engagement of a small number of people. These people are citizens of this country and they do certain jobs. There is relative certainty that the state authorities of Serbia will take over part of the Federation's authority, so the basis for their takeover was also needed. For now, as I suppose well known: in the event of one organ being shut down and attached to another, there is a legal basis for taking over workers. This is about two levels, federal and republican, so Article 16 created the basis to assume, in accordance with needs and possibilities, a number of people who are now working in federal authorities. Finally, to conclude, there is another particular person; you have seen, these are Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6, if I am not mistaken, and they are, in fact, bound by my deep conviction, for a justifiable endeavor to place a normal structure, as a rule, the pyramidal structure of the state administration, in a normal way. It is, therefore, so that the base is widest, that it does not stand the other way around. We've had a situation with a large number of state authorities working, at least when it comes to high-skilling, large and large numbers of people with the highest titles. It's just not good, with a calling that defacto couldn't be questioned when it was once acquired. Therefore, it is the law to make this pyramid natural: to make progress conditions not so much in the course of work, but, of course, in the course of work, as well as in the results of work; to not only do acquired titles get nailed at all times, but to put them in relation to the results of work; finally, that the level, or the number of people with the highest titles in the state administration is rationalised and reduced to a relatively small and appropriate extent. So much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22606	Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Milan Markovic, Committee for Justice and Administration and National MP Bojan Pajtic, Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22607	Dear fellow Members of the People, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities is a good part of the result of harmonising with the Labour Act, and what the Proposer confirms in the explanation, noting that working relationships are governed primarily by the provisions of the Labour Act and that these provisions are applied to employees of state bodies and organisations. However, due to certain specificities of this particular area of state authorities and their work, there is also a Law on labour relations in state bodies. The provisions of the Labour Act are also subsidically applied to government officials. I would just like to remind, unlike the promoter, who has glorified the Labour Act as one of the ultimate achievements, as a single special atmosphere of work, for us socialists, the Labour Act is one of the most tragic laws that has been passed in this assembly, with far-reaching consequences for all employees and all workers. It's a law that abolished collective bargaining, top-notch achievement and working classes and trade unions. It's a law that abolished advertising. You know that the Labour and Advertising and Competition Act is overwritten, and here it's decadent that there's no ad when it comes to working for a certain time. Perhaps the promoter has above all in mind that ads are unnecessary, because simply in Serbia, since DOS is in power, I don't know who got a job, and 300,000 people are out of a job. So it's a little bit of a waste to talk about ads and competitions. The anti-work law extended the probationary work, extended overtime, reduced annual holidays, reduced paid leave, reduced severances. The layoff by employers is a very easy thing to do under that law. We remember these provisions due to the results of the work, due to the sudden incompetence of workers working perhaps 15 or 20 years, due to technical, technological and organisational changes, due to behaviour can be fired. There was everything and everything in that law. In any case, the central thing is that the law applies to employees of state authorities: it is the law by which workers are the most common slaves, and employers are absolute owners. Money fees, let's remember, according to that law were reduced to two to five earnings. The employee's surplus is always decided by the employer. Here's the difference, the excess employees are now being decided not by the employer, but by the official who manages the state authorities. Although this bill is really small, given the number of members, twenty of all, it is essentially restrictive, rigorous and very unfavourable for all the employees of the state bodies. That's the way it's been since the beginning. For example, from Article 1, where work is just being talked about for a certain period of time, there is no need for any advertising. You know, times are very difficult. Today, every man who runs out of work with a tall man, with a higher alert, for example, who is most often employed in state authorities, a very valuable month - two and a year, and how will they know that there are places left in the world if there are no ads. On the other hand, we all know very well that working for a certain time is kind of a ticket and a permanent job. Deleting Article 19, which is Article 2 in this bill, is also an unacceptable thing for us; simply, it was a nice solution and was deleted because it was in accordance with the Labour Law, and contrary to the Labour Act. The member says: if he is employed in state authorities for more than three months, he does not carry out his work satisfactorily in other jobs. It's kind of a restrictive provision, but it's quite acceptable for these civil service jobs. But here the proposer goes much further, erases, because it is not necessary, without a job, it is very fast and very easy. Then we have the introduction of a senior advisor. So far we have had advisors, independent professional associates, more professional associates and professional associates, and now we are introducing a new calling. It is not disputed either, but it is contentious that in some other attitude we have a decree that this calling can only be obtained by 5% of the employees, and why not 6. For example, if there are 100 employees in one organisation, the state authority, five of them are entitled to this calling. Maybe someone deserves their quality and all the other prescribed conditions to be sixth. He can't, because there's a strict provision here as to how this issue is regulated. In the last position, the government says, another 5% is possible. That means, not the sixth one, but the tenth one, and we don't think there's any special progress. The change in Article 35, which quickly loses the calling and even faster the job, we think that this member simply means nothing special. In fact, it means in terms of restrictiveity and rigorousity. Article 35 thus far reads: "The title acquired under this law may be lost by employees if two years consecutively assessed by the lowest assessment". It was a normal time, if two years doesn't work properly, it goes to lower calling. Now the promoter says: "Employee who is assessed by the lowest rating loses his calling, moves to a directly lower calling within the same school's capacity". Finally, it is said, "If there is no suitable working place to deploy to, his working relationship stops." It is most likely that this will be the main position, the most important attitude in this article. When it comes to vacations, we have a restrictive solution, where the limit is to 25 working days. Please, there are very complex jobs in state bodies and organizations, which are very difficult. Why not go with 30 working days for those who have 30 years of employment. I think it's a solution both fairer and better than what you've offered under this law. When we talk about minor injuries to work duties and duties, and that's where it goes restrictively. It says that an unwarranted job loss is enough one day to make it easier for a work obligation to get hurt. We already have a fine, which is about 20% of the pay now. At the time of the Socialist government, it was much more favourable, two days in a row could not work, and 10% was a fine of salary. That's the difference between socialism and this wild capitalism that you carry out and execute on the orders of Western mentors. Something is. When it comes to serious labour violations, you're very restrictive. Unwarranted job absence for at least two days, it is now already more severe infringement of labour obligations and duties. Of course, there are these fines, up to 35%. Everywhere in your laws, there are only sanctions, sanctions, sanctions, penalties, punishments, penalties and all that. For us, in particular, it is unacceptable Article 15, which is an additional member, which refers to the cancellation, i.e. "Employee cancels the employment relationship in the following cases: if he refuses to work at the workplace where he is assigned". What does that mean? Very soon, this authority will be directed by a state official from Somboro to Jagodin. It doesn't pay him to travel, so he can't pay the apartment, because your prices are high. Of course, he'll give up such a job. Or, if he loses his calling, and we've seen that you, by this law, lose his calling very quickly. The lowest score and immediately the call is lost. Whoever decides that, only the official who runs the state's authorities. When it comes to that article, "continuing organizational changes." Change of organization is possible at any time. So the head of state at any time can think of a certain change in the organization and instead of 15 employees saying he doesn't need more than 10, and those five are going to the street. Those are the provisions. The most rigorous and rigorous member is Article 17, which says that within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, an emergency evaluation of the work of an employee can be carried out. What does that mean? This means that a later assessment is possible and it is in some way a kind of lustration in state bodies. I'm sorry Minister Batic isn't here, because he talks about lustration all the time. Lustration is some kind of purification, but of what? It's a purification from foreign harmful influence. The foreign harmful influence hasn't been for 10 years, as you say. Now the side's a harmful influence. It's a good law on lustration, but it'll be applied to DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22608	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to a debate in order of registered Members. The first on the list is MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22609	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities, the first article is about the biggest problem in state bodies, in particular, believe me, in local self-government. In fact, it's about getting into a working relationship with a certain working time that, in practice, I'm talking about, as a rule, abuse becomes a working relationship to indefinite working hours. When this is added to the existing provision of Article 59 that the burden of breach of labour obligations and duties which can result in the termination of the employment relationship "membership in the bodies of political parties or the expression and representation of political definitions in the performance of tasks in the state body", we will get a comprehensive picture of the state's situation. Namely, these authorities, from the ministry to the remote local communities, served and served political parties to reward political equalists and, unfortunately, to punish political opponents. After every election in the state authorities, there is a layoff, and at the same time, believe me, an even greater reception of new workers into a working relationship at a certain time, which, as a rule, turns into a working relationship indefinitely. I'm just going to give an example of the municipal administration in Lazarevec, where I work. After the 1996 elections, when major election manipulations occurred, more than 30 workers were admitted to the municipal administration during a certain period of time in 1997. They were mostly members of the election board, activists of the SPS at the time, who helped their party win the election convincingly then. They're employees of the municipal administration today. The new employment wave comes at the end of 2000 and during 2001 when, again, it is irrevocable, without competition employed by the municipal administration of about 20 workers. This time they were the activities and members of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party. These are the facts we can check and document. The result of these campaigns is that now in the municipal administration in Lazarevec, and I believe in a large number of municipal administrations throughout Serbia, there are extra employees, and many officials do not have adequate professional training. During their employment, it was not a matter of professional preparation and ability. Unfortunately, it was just a political resemblance. We stand fully responsible behind it. With the strict application of Article 59(2), most employees should be dismissed because almost all express and represent political definitions in the performance of certain tasks. The mayors and heads of municipal administrations, in most municipalities in Serbia, were collectively all members of the SPS in 1997. Whether they had to or not, I'm not getting into it. But now they're changing parties in the last year and collectively switching to DOS parties. On the basis of this, I object to the formulation of Article 10a of the Bill, which does not oblige the publication of an ad for entry into service for a certain period of time. Since this is about public service and budget spending, I think we should also resort to the principle of tendering and transparency here. It should not be allowed for the Head of State to secretly receive on his own behalf, either by his own discretion or by the measure of any party, whom he will or as he wills. Political and party debts and obligations if they are acquired before or now need to stay on the side and be regulated by parties that are currently current and in power, rather than being affected by the pockets of the poor people by rudely investing in the budget, practically paying for new jobs, i.e. by receiving in the employment relationship of people who have somehow contributed to the work of new parties who are in power and who are now run by municipal administrations. I would point out one more important thing - that the position of workers in the state authorities, above all I mean at the local level, is very difficult and that if we continue with this treatment of workers in the state administration, it will be very difficult to get professional personnel, because people have no motivation to come and work in the authorities of the administration because there are very small salaries and great obligations. We had a problem with building inspection that for several years we couldn't bring in an expert worker - a construction engineer to do this job, precisely because wages are very small and business and obligations are very important. Because of all this, the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group cannot accept the obligation and vote for such a proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22610	MP Vojislav Seselj is not present. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22611	Ladies and gentlemen, with regrets, I can only conclude that I really do not feel comfortable in the absence of some of the legally elected MPs, with the presence of some illegal MPs, but this will not prevent me from saying a few words about the amendment and addition of the Labour Law in the state bodies. I hope this time you won't have a problem with identifying a number of MPs who would support such a proposal for a harmful law, as it was when we voted, more specifically when you voted on the Labour Act, so you had to resort to some "stelt" technologies to provide enough votes to pass such a law. However, if the citizens of Serbia knew what laws you were preparing for them, the parallel one and this law, they would certainly not have trusted the DOS or the then presidential candidate. I must remind you - that in this DOS programme for democratic Serbia, brought by G17 plus, no word was written or planned that 300,000 workers could lose their jobs, that no new jobs would be opened but would be closed, hardly to get any support from citizens. Unfortunately, all of that support you've received, but today, after two years of your authority, we can only conclude that the people really were wrong when they gave you trust. As I have already said in the adoption of the Labour Law, which allowed very liberal conditions first to lose their jobs, the SPS has fought hard for all 10 years, despite sanctions and wars, and our economy has not functioned, for people not to lose their jobs and to open new jobs, and in 1997-98 10,000 trainees found their arrests. I was among those interns myself, although I regret to say that I was able to feel on my skin a negative fact of government that was then managed, unfortunately, by JUL; I regret to say that some of the relics, JUL and today are in place, despite the many times you have advocated that you will make any changes. But let the citizens who know what it is, what I'm talking about; they will know very well that they appreciate my words. The labour law has prescribed the possibility of owners (so, either those who are managers or the owners of private firms or those who are directors of state firms), can, because they got up on their left foot, make a solution to the termination of a man who might not like him or someone who does not want to do what they expect him to do. This law on labour relations in state authorities assumes the role of the boss of appointed or elected officials. I will remind you that in such places a couple of excellencies of bureaucrats find themselves in such places, those who consider their function to be god-given and not in the interests of the citizens and those who should be satisfied with their work, but those who only want to achieve their own ambitions, and who are rarely in this intention to achieve their own ambitions, are carried over and through their powers and competences. For example, this law on labour relations in state authorities provides for what is the most frightening, which is lustration, whether for people who are not politically alike, or for people who are not at the will of those who are in functional positions in state bodies. So Article 7 of this law says - if there is no suitable workplace to deploy the worker to, his employment relationship stops. It is those who have appointed or forgotten to resolve, as is the case in several state bodies in Piroth, who will have the opportunity to accomplish their intentions or what they wanted, and what others are ordering them to do, in the sense that they release and dissuade people, regardless of whether these people have safely carried out their work tasks. In this article 7, it is really very important that this call is predicted in a very wide range. This article is offered a restrictive solution in which implementation is very possible to create a lack of respect for objective circumstances, to show a subjective position, and there are no elements for measuring the work, especially as the work of most civil servants in the state administration depends primarily on the work of the authorities of the state administration in general, i.e. appointed persons who operate them; I must also mention the principle of co-ordination which is due to the nature of the work of the state administration and how it is expressed. Gentlemen, I really don't see a problem with you going out for a pay phone and saying what you have. So, as another important feature of this bill, I must also point out Article 9 which says that an unwarranted absence from work, just one working day, is enough to make a decision about losing a job. To be clear to all, especially the employees of the authorities of the state administration, that they will be exposed in this way to the will or will of DOS managers. I'll remind you, if by chance a few years ago, when the SPS was in power, a bill like this in the hints would have just appeared, it would have happened to the OSCE, and the World Bank, and the IMF, and the Humanitarian Law Fund, and the Kandićka and three hundred miracles. Today you carry out an absolute self-will in a unique way and no one reacts to it. Of course, it takes a little time for this people to see who he trusted to rule Serbia. Also, I must conclude that the very negative provisions of article 17, which says that within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, can be carried out by an extraordinary evaluation of the work of employees. It's another piece of evidence in the series that you, by this bill, just want to emulate the state administration with your intentions, your wishes, to conquer people who work in the state administration, to do what you want, not to work on the basis of the Constitution and the law, as it should seem. The reasons for the adoption of the law states a very important provision, which says that, given the different concepts of the Labour Relations Act and the Law on Labour in State Authorities, certain difficulties have arisen in applying their provisions, and I am now emphasising "especially on disciplinary responsibility and termination of employment in state bodies". So that's the point. The point is to create an atmosphere in the state authorities that people have to listen to you, that they can't say their opinions, that they can't say what lies on their hearts and, again, that it happened during the Socialist government, who knows what would happen and what reaction all this would lead to. Also, I have to say that the reason is that according to the applicable law, a negative assessment of employee's work can only lead to a lower calling, and only if it is assessed by the lowest estimate of two consecutive years. The abovementioned Article 7. (in reason) it is now prescribed that the negative assessment in one year withdraws the determination of lower calling and, at the end of the term, the possibility of termination of employment. Well, gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia employed by state authorities, think about it. Now your bosses, the superior bosses, who have come to their jobs with obedience and obedience to the state regime, mean, according to DOS regime, they'll be in a position to decide your fate, and then when they give you a negative grade, you'll be thrown out of a fast train case on the street. In order not to take too much time, because of the rigidity of the Rules of Procedure that you have brought, my colleagues who probably have something broader to say about this bill, I will end up with one finding -- while DOS is in power, anything is possible, even a wooden stove, but only for single use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22612	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic. (Employee Zeljo Huric, from the post: You have three minutes left. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22613	Zeljo, I hope next time you suggest such a solution in the Rules of Procedure, the MP can't speak for more than three minutes. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us, as has already been said, the draft law amending labour laws in state bodies. Normally, Mr. Sabic inherited this proposal, as it was done in time before he became minister of the former justice and administration ministry. Make sure you hear it. There are several objections here by the SPS parliamentary group. We have also given these remarks through amendments, which we have submitted to this proposal for a legal solution, and we have tried to improve the proposed law, and he has said, as the Honorable Minister, is in line with the Labour Act, which this assembly has adopted earlier. What is our basic observation is that the first article stipulates that new jobs are not advertised, it is clear to read; if there are no ads, except for trainees, it is possible to hire those who are closer to the political option that is in power; in this way they fill out those vacant jobs, which will later be translated into a permanent working relationship. Please, don't let me give you a lecture on good education, it's not right for me to do it. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] As far as rest and absence are concerned, this law provides for a more restrictive measure than previously foreseen. So, the annual vacation can last for up to 25 and at least 18 working days, and the right to an annual vacation for up to 30 days is determined by those who have over 30 years of employment. Our opinion is that we need to keep an old solution here. Normally, it does not give the right to use it automatically, but according to the conditions that are met and regulated by the general collective agreement, it can be up to 30 or 35 working days, for those who have over 30 and 35 years of employment, respectively. Furthermore, what would be our objection, that is to say, when working relations are cancelled, is here in Article 64a (newly proposed) as provided for in point 5) "if, at the end of the working relationship, in accordance with the general rules on working relations, no return to work within 15 days". I think that this formulation is insufficiently precise, does not predict that someone may not return after the rest of the working relationship; means, if someone has been elected to a function, a committee member whose employment relationship in the authority of the administration has ceased because he has been elected as a boardman, or someone who is from the administration, or from the state authorities chosen as an MP, and on that basis rests his working relationship, if he does not return to work within 15 days, and may also be the reason of a justified nature. In the meantime, a man can get sick, he can have another reason to stop him from coming back, it doesn't exactly say in the law. I think that should be precise. Normally, everyone needs to come back, to do the jobs he's done before these rights to stay at work. In addition, there are other reasons for a steady working relationship. Furthermore, what may be most problematic in this bill (this is what my fellow MPs have already mentioned) is that the new Article 17 provides: "in a period of six months from the date of entry into force of this law an extraordinary evaluation of the work of an employee can be carried out, on a proposal from the head of the organisational unit responsible for proposing an evaluation of the work. The manager referred to in Article 1(1) may propose an emergency evaluation if he considers that he did not carry out his duties satisfactorily for three months. The emergency evaluation proposal shall consist of a proposal for a regular evaluation of the work of the employee. The employee, who was assessed by the lowest assessment, quits the employment relationship." And that's the essence of the whole story. This does not look like lustration, this is pure lustration, but the lustration given in one volunteer way, because that assessment is given by an individual, without any control and without any further possibility of appeal or objection to something like this. So this is how you want to make another cleaning of the administration's body, the organization. And it seems to me, that the proposal adopted by the government the other day, about the increase of employees' salaries in individual administrations and other state services, which is an announced 10% increase, wants to sort out a little bit and reconcile what is going to be changed by this proposed law, not to cause major problems in the authorities of the administration, and we already know that strikes have been announced in individual authorities. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group has given its amendments, and we will explain them specifically, to concrete members, and unless these amendments are accepted, I don't think we're going to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22614	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the domain of labour legislation is one of the elements on which elections are either won or lost; the working legislation that you promote and the labour law will surely lead you to a loss of choice. First of all, this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities is much more restrictive than earlier solutions, since, of course, you have a tendency to tighten disciplinary measures, cancellations are made much easier, and decision-making on these cancellations and disciplinary measures is strictly in the domain of the managers of the competent services; not to mention these peripheral details, which are very important for workers, such as reducing the length of the annual vacations. The bill itself is a derivative of that Labour Act which has been a fruit of anti-work hysteria that you have been promoting for a year and a half in these areas. Of course, this Labour Act cannot be treated as a law that was passed in accordance with the then Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, since you brought it in by the famous technology of your mentors called "stelt" technology, because one of your MPs even from Thessaloniki voted in favour of this law and thus you got legitimacy. Since this is a specific sphere, therefore, of state authorities, this bill is practically allowed for executives because of the so-called so-called. political inadequacies without objective reasons give notice or establish some disciplinary measures to certain so-called Irrespective individuals after the evaluation of their work. In Article 10, if there is an unwarranted absence from work at least two consecutive working days, disciplinary measures vary from establishing a fine of 20 to 35 % of the salary paid for the month in which the injury was committed and for three to six months, or a disciplinary measure, the termination of the employment relationship. As soon as that variation is given, the competent manager, according to the individual’s political likeness, will likely decide whether to fire him or to withdraw 20 - 35 % of his salary if he commits the offence. What's interesting is Article 11. - that the power to conduct a disciplinary procedure and express a disciplinary measure can be passed on even to another official from the state authority. It's just that it doesn't say who it is that carries that authority and how it gets legitimacy. Article 15, or Article 64a, which is a new member, also speaks of ways of ending work, where it is mentioned that there may be a termination of employment if an employee refuses to work at the workplace at which he is deployed or directed. Also, point 6) is said - when changes in the organisation acquire unscheduled status and cannot provide him with a job in the same or other state body. Of course, it doesn't define what changes are in the organization here, but it's important to stop working relationships and it's just talking about your way of treating labour legislation and about an inhuman character that really isn't in the interests of workers and at all employment. Article 17, which my colleagues mentioned, speaks of the possibility of an extraordinary evaluation of employee's work. So, it shows, if these other members are not seen in the middle, that there is practically a political background or political motivation of such an act, i.e. an extraordinary evaluation of the work of an employee on the proposal of the manager of that organisational unit. The reasons for the law being passed are that, in the earlier period, the highest titles are indiscriminately assigned, independent of the professional abilities and the results of the work of the employees, which created a certain administrative and inability for the most professional staff to be singled out and their work to be more valuable. It is said in an explanation of some solutions that Article 1 states that no ad is published at a certain time for admission to work. Then how in that case, these most professional staffs, which you say you want to have in state authorities, only exercise their right to at least compete with other candidates who are not politically inappropriate to you, if not based on an ad that you would apply to. So this is about a classic demagogy. As for the latent presence of lustration, if this law, of course, is adopted, I must say that lustration is only a fruit of frustration of the current regime, since that deviant part of the titoistic regime of the previous period wants to carry out lustration against individual members or officials of earlier authorities, who have just introduced democratic principles in Serbia, a multiparty system, the principles of an independent judiciary. Now we have a situation that -- something that has really been applied in the countries of Eastern Europe, but only as a discontinuity in relation to those former communist regimes -- just the representatives of this regime, not everyone in this government, but the vast majority, want to implement that lustration. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will not vote for this law, since nothing positive here is seen for workers in state bodies either.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22616	The word has a People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22617	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, as I speak on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, I know that, as always, you will remain deaf to these words of mine, and I pronounce them not for your sake, but for my Leskovec and the voters of the Jablani County. It is normal that, following the adoption of the Labour Act, certain amendments to the Labour Relations Act had to be made to the State Authorities Act, as Article 2 of Article 2 of this Act provides for an obligation to regulate and refer to state bodies and organisations. However, the question is whether this had to be done in the way this was done and whether this was going in the right direction, as the legislator suggested; perhaps it was better to define this legislative change only to what was not clearly defined in the Labour Act, which is annual holidays, absences, working hours, to define disciplinary relations, or disciplinary violations, because disciplines in the Labour Act do not exist in the form in which we imagine them, but that the government is going to make changes that go in a completely different direction. In line with its already obviously started pre-election activity, which President Djindjic announced last night with 20,000 to 30,000 high school students, who will be camping free of charge on various mountains and in various resorts, which will be on the polls in September or October, you, as a government, are trying to win more than 100,000 people through these changes of laws for yourself and an army of employees in state authorities and in a total state administration where, as far as I know, there are more than 100,000 people. How do the government and the legislator want to win this great army of voters for their option? In a very simple way - personal incomes in state authorities and public enterprises have been frozen; the government introduces, in a safe way, an increase in personal incomes in state bodies; but it will be of course, only for those obedient, party-obedient in state bodies. Others from public enterprises cannot increase their personal incomes, and artistic translation from one calling to another in state authorities will practically increase their personal incomes. To achieve this, of course, there will have to be a variety of changes in all budgets in due time. For these needs in Article 3, which you are changing to Article 27 of the existing law, you shall introduce, in addition to the advisor, a senior advisor. You have limited, though, in Article 5, that not all college people can become senior advisors, but it can only become 5% employees, or if the government agrees another five percent, so 10% of the people with college can become counselors, senior advisors. You have also introduced conditions for advisers and more advisers to be able to get that calling if their powers are extended throughout Serbia; but, please, you have no closer definition of what you mean, because under Resolution 1244, it is clear that these advisers and bodies in which they work cannot do anything in Kosovo and Metohija, so they do not cover the entire territory of Serbia, and after the omnibus of the Vojvodina Act and after the coat of arms of Vojvodina, soon all those in the state bodies will not be able to work in Vojvodina either. I really don't get it, except formally, who's gonna be able to get a position as senior advisor. If we look at the essence of this particular -- the entire territory of Serbia, it seems to me that no one will be able to become a senior adviser. In the light of the legal changes in this part, you have made it clear that you are doing this to avoid a contaminant, which the previous government has eaten in state authorities. Let's see how much of that explanation you've given is principled and true. When calling an advisor in Article 4, there are no restrictions on the number of advisors, so I ask you whether it's a fight against a conservator or whether it's just a acceleration of the contaminant. You've reduced from eight to seven years of working hours the condition for someone to become a counselor, and that goes in the direction of setting up and increasing the plane. So it's going in the opposite direction of the one you're declaring in your arguments. You have introduced a senior associate with several school facilities, and in high school you have called a senior referent in order to enable without restrictions on the number of people with this calling to also increase their personal incomes. In order to speed up the edifice, against which you are in some kind of principle, you have reduced the compulsory job experience of faculty employees and other education. In order to become an independent professional associate, it does not take more than six or five years for him to become an expert associate for four or three years, a senior associate becomes three years of work, so it is possible for municipal leaders to raise salaries to everyone with higher and medium professional training. Dear fellow MPs, I'm saying this not to make it impossible for employees to advance in the state administration, but to show a senseless explanation you've given. Also to show that the government does not have the same archaics and the same criteria for state authorities and public enterprises, in which the mass of personal income is frozen and thus prevented similar advances in the service. Article 7 also gave a problematic formulation, due to the introduction of the term -- estimated by the lowest assessment. Such a termological provision may be misused or "wrongly interpreted" by the manager, who performs an evaluation of the work of the employees, because the assessment can also be satisfactory and still be the lowest of all employee performance assessments, so it is certain that this should be specified as a negative assessment. This article also disabling school preparation, as leaving a job with a higher school permanently to work with a high school cannot be interpreted differently. The increase in wages in state authorities will take place during the terming, according to this law, over the next sixty days, so it seems to me that what the government wanted to hurry up and thus, by sorting out more people into higher calling and increasing personal incomes, creates an atmosphere for this army of civil servants to be safely in the electoral section of DOS, in the elections on the threshold. Finally, article 17, which says an extraordinary evaluation of the work of government officials, practically without lustration laws, can be carried out within six months, introduces a lustration for employees of state authorities. Any organisation unit manager in the state administration may, due to a party's disagreement with a specific enforcement officer, carry out an extraordinary evaluation, give a negative assessment and take measures to be fired in accordance with this law. I am sure, Mr. Minister, and you fellow MPs, that all previous members of this bill are sufficient to carry out an evaluation, and that Article 17 can only serve to implement your party decisions. With this article 17, you are trying in the most drastic way (dramatic as the University Act, which you have tried to implement, and then you have been a little retarded) to introduce a lustration for all the employees of the state authorities, through which your unsanitary people will suffer. I'm afraid this is not one new DOS system to practically reduce the huge administration that exists in the state authorities and thus painlessly allow it to happen. For these reasons -- introducing an increase in personal incomes to small doors, disabling school preparation and education beyond the law and introducing lustration in state bodies -- MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will not vote for the law. In the end, I ask all the workers and employees of the state authorities that, although the government offers them this law an increase in wages, they think well, because it is always possible to change this law when it is requested by the Government. I'm afraid these promises, which workers in the state authorities have, are not as true as any promises. I will mention to you the famous impudent lawyer and MP Tosa R. Tonic, who, walking around in our neighborhood, in the Lebanese neighborhood, promised hills and valleys to his voters and made his promises at one point, he said, "people, when I become an MP, I will make you a bridge." The people of course got scared - Mr. Tosha, we don't have a river. If you don't, I'll bring you the river. In the follow-up to that, he says, first thing when you pick me as an MP, I'll make you a school. Mr. Tosha, but we don't have children. If you don't, I'll make you kids some.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22618	The word has been made by MP Hranislav Peric, the SPS parliamentary group, for 8 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22619	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, on the agenda of the Assembly is the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law in state bodies. This law is extremely restrictive, as well as the Law on Labour against which we Socialists voted, as we will do with this law, depending on the adoption of amendments. There's no question about social justice and care, even if the basic rights of employees. All the solutions are aimed at making employees unable to influence their position. These solutions are more appropriate to capitalist countries where the employer cares for nothing but profit. Taking care of the workers is the last place. The state administration is a specific administration, because no government can be of quality if it does not have quality logistics support, or quality state administration. Instead of introducing this new quality, the law deletes existing, much more quality solutions. Evidence that the bill of law is unquality has a lot to do with it. For example, Article 1 abolishs the mandatory launch of competitions for a given time. So no one but privileged, close relatives or friends will even know there's a contest in place. Is this, in your opinion, the transparency that you are constantly talking about and that you are constantly calling upon? In Article 7, you suggest that employees of the state administration may stop working if they receive the lowest rating from their superiors. I wonder what that lowest grade means. Whether an employee is assessed by an estimate of one to five or five to 10, and which are the elements of the evaluation. I suppose you know that giving any evaluation implies the exact elements of the evaluation. How can a superior evaluate, for example, an expert worker here in the Assembly who serves one of the committees if the meetings of that committee are not scheduled for about a year. The employees, of course, are not responsible, because there are no laws or bodies in the procedure. This concludes that, if it remains a Article 7. The bill, for evaluation, also uses the so-called law. the obvious method, and without a job, will remain unsatisfactory. Will it be a professional and responsible state administration if it is employed by employees without competition, friends, family of officials who operate individual state bodies? Increased criminal measures have been introduced for workers in state authorities, and the justification is that it had to be so, for workers in enterprises, because you claimed that the bosses on the side would not buy enterprises where workers have certain rights. Why do it for government workers when we're not selling it? I guess the state administration isn't for sale. In the end, I suggest you withdraw this law, as you did with previous laws from this session that you pulled out of the procedure, because it's not a good law for workers. All those you receive in this way, with the help of this law in the state authorities, whoever comes to power after you can fire under the same law and there is no need to pass a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22620	With this presentation, we have concluded, according to the application for a word, the discussion of the MPs of the people. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22621	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, was in Serbia about 800,000 unemployed in late June 2002. It seems to me that this number will be even higher, as a significant number of people from the state authorities will be left out of work after the adoption and application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the state bodies that the Assembly is discussing today. The bill contains more members than the importance of employees in state authorities, but for their status it is the most important member of the 15th to determine how the employee ends his employment relationship and which shows the true character of this proposal, i.e. that he is a restrictive character with too much authority and volunteerism, who gets a functioner who manages state authorities. The criterion of moral - political similarities as the basis for employee working status, characterized by the 1970s and 1980s, changes this bill to the working political similarity of employees, which will be decided by the elected or appointed person or, according to the law, by the official. The assessment of the bill as restrictive with the volunteer content confirms just mentioned, for the draft law, but also most importantly, Article 15. I will mention here on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group several examples. First, the employee shall be cancelled if he does not show adequate results in the trial. What are the corresponding results? You don't say that. You know who's estimating that proper score. It's an official who runs state authorities, an individual. He will tell the probationary worker, based on his subjective criteria -- political, personal, etc., the final court on the cancellation of the employment relationship. Secondly, the employee is denied a working relationship (quote): "If he refuses to work at the workplace where he is deployed or directed". This solution seems completely harmless if it is observed or applied within the institution, or in its seat. It makes a different sense when an employee gets a solution from a public authority officer to work in a state body outside his place of residence. The functioner decides what to do, but also where to do it. If an employee refuses to go to another city, to an out-of-town ward, an area unit or something, then they're fired. Third, the employee is denied employment (quote): "If he loses his calling and there is no suitable job to be deployed in the new calling". The call is lost based on an estimate, the lowest, expressed by a functioner, so an individual. The proposing now applies a subtle solution contained in Article 7. A bill aimed at ending employment. First, on the basis of the decision of the officials, the employee loses his calling, then moves to a lower calling, and when the lower calling is established, employees may be deployed to another job that corresponds to his calling and abilities. If there is no suitable workplace to deploy to, of course, employees are followed by termination of employment, termination. When most people in the Serbian government, starting from Prime Minister to ministers and others, publicly say that there are a lot of employees in state authorities, so that 20, 30 and someone says 40% of employees should be fired, it is logical that someone who is assessed loses their calling negatively and will not be in a position to be second-placed. There are too many employees, the government's official representatives say, and there are no vacant jobs. So, basically, with a poor rating obtained from functioners and loss of calling, the employee certainly gets fired, even though it doesn't seem like it at first sight. Fourthly, the employee cancels the employment relationship when (quote): "The change in the organisation gives him unscheduled status and cannot provide him with a job in the same or other state body". The organization decision, which is known to be, is essentially made by an official who manages the state authorities. He determines through that decision a team of people he will work with, and they, if it is a large state body, also determine people who will be their direct associates. Political changes create conditions for the admission of political equalists through a new decision on the organisation of a state body. Of course, political opponents or even those who are not, but there is no place for them in the new organization because of the reception of their people, so they will lose their jobs. To provide other jobs for these unscheduled people, of course, is difficult to come by, not only the abovementioned reasons, but also because of the claim that there are extra employees in state bodies. I think those examples speak eloquently of the true character of this bill. When the facts contained in other members of this proposal of the law, which strengthen disciplinary measures against employees, are also added to these assessments, it provides for the extraordinary evaluation of employees and that the employee who has been assessed by the lowest assessment ceases working relationship or that no public competition is required for a certain period of time to be admitted, and the officials here decide on their own who they will receive, etc. It is then evident that this bill is not of a quality, that, in addition to agreeing with the labour relations law, it also contains a number of other bad solutions that will cause negative consequences, resulting in the dismissal of employees in state bodies, an increase in the number of unemployed and other negative consequences. For all these reasons, the SPS Group will vote in favour of the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act in state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22622	I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The proposer does not accept the amendments. Is anyone answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22623	As already said, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, a group of MPs from the SPS group submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law. She suggested that this member be deleted, for the reason that the earlier solution was better and better and allowed access to a number of interested persons to apply for advertising, competition or any other form of advertising, for job openings. Earlier legal solutions provided that in exceptional cases necessary needs and shorts of time, and in order to ensure the functioning of a particular body, employment can be done without advertising. However, here it is possible to fully enable employment (only trainees) for a certain time, without advertising, without competition, without being able to compete with a wider range of interested persons who need work, and I don't know who in this country of unemployed is not necessarily in the situation in which we are, because of the poor social status of most of the population. All those who meet the conditions to carry out certain tasks specified by the law, i.e. by describing the job and the necessary qualifications for the job, are not in a position to know when and how they can get to work. There is a simpler solution, if you do not want the job to be advertised in some of the means of public information - to address the need for workers of a particular profile, at least with employment organisations, that those according to qualifications, according to the length of waiting, perhaps according to the social situation of unemployed persons, send such persons to bodies that have a need for employment for a certain period of time. I think it could be a very correct and quite solid solution. In addition, I think that a similar amendment has been submitted by the Soviet Union, or by a group of MPs, who does not foresee eradicating the whole of this article, but by one piece. Besides, they'll talk about it. I think our argument and this request speak of that there are other colleagues who think in a similar way and who want to arrange this matter in a better and better way. I'm sorry the government doesn't accept this amendment. It is, as has already been said, legally possible and is not impossible to achieve in a more correct, better quality and constitutional way employment at a certain time, if this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22624	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I ask the representative of the motion, the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government of Mr. Sabic, does he accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) The promoter, or Government, did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22625	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is becoming a custom for the government to accept anything that is good. The Soviet Parliament Group has tabled an amendment to Article 1 or a new Article 10a and is proposing that Article 2 be deleted. This is the reason: namely, the Labour Act, which is subsidized and for employees of state authorities, Article 2(2) provides that a working relationship for a certain period of time can only be designed for a period which is continuous or with interruptions for the longest three years. After that deadline, a working relationship based on a certain time becomes a working relationship indefinitely. Also, if employees continue to work at least five working days after the deadline for which the working relationship was established, the working relationship based on a certain time becomes a working relationship indefinitely. The proposed solution in Article 10a. Article 2 The draft law on labour relations in state bodies, i.e. the authorities of the administration, is contrary to Article 35(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, established the principle that every job is available under equal conditions, given that employees in state bodies are put in a more unfavourable position than other employees for a certain period of time. The proposed solution also opens up the possibility of abuse of the institutes of establishing a working relationship for a certain period of time. The only motive for the Soviet Union to propose this amendment is for all employees, no matter where they work, whether in state bodies, social or private enterprises, to be treated in the same way, and for the Serbian Constitution to be applied to all employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22626	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, Minister of State and Local Self-Government Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22627	I don't want to compromise with the good intentions of the promoter of this amendment at all. I'm not questioning those intentions. But, guys, let's look the truth in the eye and be realistic. Until now, the law had the possibility of hiring workers without public advertising. We all know that the number of abuses was huge. I honestly believe there will be less in the future. So to make it clear to the public, it's only a working relationship to a certain time, in no case indefinitely. One word, I don't see why such a problem is being created; it's simply not meant to raise it to the level of constitutionality because it needs to be looked into the truth. So far, there has been an opportunity in state authorities for people to engage in a work relationship without public advertising. The government, proposing a solution like this, simply starts with the fact that working on a certain time has some particular, important, short-term needs, when the story of public advertising is something that complicates solving problems. As far as working relations are concerned indefinitely, of course no one can think of questioning this constitutional principle that Mr. Petrovic mentioned and that is what remains regulated in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22628	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Is any of the mandated promoters coming forward on this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22629	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed to delete Article 2, which has provided for the erasure of Article 19 of the existing law. In Article 19, it is said - if employees of a state body do not show satisfactory results for more than three months, a official who manages the state authorities may deploy them to another post according to his abilities. The article also speaks of the need to take care of the committee's opinion when deploying the staff member. Of course, DOS has deleted everything regarding the commission. There are no more commissions; there's only a functioner who answers everything, who decides everything. Therefore, this member would be needed and should remain. He's more humane and righteous, but it's obvious the minister doesn't accept it. Maybe this, in the end, isn't a big deal. Much bigger problems are that the Ministry of Energy has increased electricity by 50%. In fact, it's no longer known how much she's collected, whether 50, whether 105% or the problem is Secretary Kori's statement suggesting to pensioners that they sell two-bedroom apartments to buy garages and make their electricity cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22630	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they proposed to add a new Article 3a after Article 3. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Are any of the mandated promoters coming forward for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22631	The MPs of the Serbian Unity Party also had as their sole goal the law was better than it was proposed, because we believe this law is not political. However, as we can see, both the Government and the Legislative Committee are moving in their own way. Let me read what we suggested. So, we suggested that after an existing Article 27a, a new Article 27a is added, which reads: "The call of a senior advisor can be obtained by an employee in a state body who has high school equipment, at least nine years of work experience, who has been trained to carry out particularly professionally and creatively the most complex tasks of a part-round body and who has achieved significant results in one or more areas of work. Calling a senior advisor can earn up to 5% of the staff with high school supplies in the state authority. In a state body that has less than 20 high-school employees, this calling can be obtained by one employee. Exceptionally, with the previous consent of the Government Committee responsible for state authorities, the calling of a senior adviser can be found to be up to 5% more employees." We believe that this amendment agrees with the order of the proposed changes with the order of the designated calls, starting from the highest calling to the calling of senior advisor. Speaking of this amendment, Mr. Minister, you haven't convinced me of your arguments about the last amendment. We only asked that all employees in this Serbia have equal treatment when it comes to employment for a certain period of time, regardless of whether they are in state bodies, in social, private enterprises, etc. Do not call upon the Constitution only when you need it, and when you do not need it, then you do not need the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22632	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Are any of the mandated promoters coming forward for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22633	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our amendment is not to make your law better. Honestly, the SPS doesn't have the intensities to worry about your laws at all. The essence of our amendment is to prevent employees of state authorities, the authorities of the administration, from being exposed to the possibility of torture from their bosses. So, Serbian citizens, this amendment requires that the provisions of Article 7 be deleted. These provisions provide that an employee who has been assessed by a minimum rating loses calling and passes directly to a lower calling within the same school facilities, and if such a calling does not exist, moves to the highest calling within the directly lower school facilities. Article 2 - an employee who has established a lower calling may be deployed to another job, which corresponds to his knowledge and abilities; and attitude 3 which is most important - if there is no suitable place of work to be deployed, his employment shall cease. Therefore, the essence of this proposed Article 7 is to change the current possibility, according to current, applicable law, that a negative assessment of the work of an employee can only lead to a lower calling, and only if two consecutive years are assessed by a minimum assessment. This Article 7 now stipulates that a negative assessment in one year withdraws the determination of a lower calling and, at the very end of the term, the possibility of termination of a working relationship. The SPS wants to draw the parliamentary majority's attention to the far-reaching consequences of such a member. We want to try to convince you to withdraw a member like this, not to vote for a member like this. We want to try to draw attention to you that this member is really bad and we want to try to convince you, if you remember tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when it's voting day for what it's about (so I repeat, Article 7 of that amendment to that member that we propose to delete), that you do not accept and delete it. We especially remind the respected representatives of the unions, and the distinguished gentlemen who are still active in some kind of unions today, to try to understand that such provisions and envisaged solutions violate one as - so good an atmosphere and introduces the possibility that the bosses throw out workers on their cheif, as they wish, into the street. I hope you'll have an understanding of the reasons and reasons we've given you with such an amendment. I would only read once again that so far there was the possibility that calling could be obtained in accordance with this law by an employee who could lose if two years consecutively was assessed by the lowest estimate. And, one more thing, this article erases the fact that the decision to take up the call is made by a official who manages the state authorities under the procedure laid down for the acquisition of the calling. In explaining the next amendment, I will say something more about this, but I must now point out that this bill abolishs the possibility of phoning a disciplinary commission, that now members 11 to 14 are meant to be able to make clear that the official can express a disciplinary measure or that he can transfer his powers to one of his colleagues, as it would say - a cadiya sues you, a cadiya judges you. The point is, a member like this isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22634	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Proposer's representative if he accepts the amendment? The government doesn't accept the amendment. ) Does the representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22635	Dear fellow Members, I understand impatience, but we are obliged to point out once again what we have already written and handed over in the procedure, which is - in Article 8. The bill introduces a new Article 36b, in paragraph 1, the number "25" is replaced by the number "30". In the 3rd word "30 working days" is replaced by the words "at least 30 and 35 working days at most". To make it clearer, I will read a new Article 36b: "For each calendar year, employees have the right to an annual vacation of at least 18 and 25 working days at most. The length of the annual vacation shall be determined in accordance with the criteria set out in the specific collective agreement. Employees from 30 years of retirement are entitled to an annual vacation of 30 working days. "This solution provides that earlier rights, which were greater than this new bill, are to be increased from 25 working days to 30 working days, and for those who are over 30 or 35 to 40 years of employment, under certain conditions, to allow them to use an annual vacation of up to 35 days. This does not automatically give everyone the right to use it, but to use special collective agreements, special regulations that regulate this matter, to use this right. So, from that minimum of 18 days to a maximum of 35 days. Normally, estimating all this, including years of internships, working conditions. It can't be said that the conditions of work in the administration are equal and easy everywhere and that jobs are easy to do. There are many jobs that take place with the parties, so you can imagine a man who has 35 years of work, who works on a counter in the administration, what problems and what problems he has in his work; he, I'm sure, needs a longer vacation in a calendar year than is foreseen. People can't pick jobs, because jobs get from employers. In this case, you know who the employer is and people can't choose what suits them, but what is offered to them. So, if someone's working on the jobs of the counter service, for example, someone is a tax collector for 30 years, 35 years, someone works in the field, as a field clerk, charges it, and it should work for 40 years; somewhere in the 38th year it should be possible for him to be able to use (I do not say imperatively that he must, but that he can) use the annual vacation period of 35 working days. These were our motives when we submitted these amendments. So, not that it has to be, but to give a frame from 18 to a maximum of 35 days of vacationing. I think it's quite correct and that the government could accept it, and I'm surprised that the Legislative Committee didn't foresee this as a legal possibility, that even such a solution could exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22636	There are no more reports of this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? The word is given by MP Hranislav Peric, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 9. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think you'll accept this amendment, because it would be too much of an adventure for a new minister to accept the amendments to the opposition, but still, we have submitted such an amendment. I submitted the amendment to Article 9 together with colleagues Tom Busetic, Joco Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. We have suggested that this article be deleted in the given text and that a new text be entered, which will propose reasonable criminal measures. This article stipulates that an unwarranted job loss, one working day, could be fined up to 20% of the one-month salary paid for the month in which it was paid. In the current law, punishment was intended for an unwarranted absence from work, two consecutive days, and for such a violation that counts for minor injuries of duty, the sentence was 10%. So it's all doubled. A group of MPs who have submitted this amendment considers that criminal measures are high; workers should not be punished by high penalty measures in money, because workers themselves have been punished when they work for such low wages. They don't need more punishment than that; 20% of the penalty on low wages in these conditions is a high penalty, when workers with wages can't survive. With these criminal measures, we will not stimulate workers to work better, but we will achieve a counterproduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22638	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the Proposer's representative accept the amendment? He doesn't accept. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, a representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a Law on Labour in State Authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22639	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this proposed amendment is to delete Article 10. The most important provision of this article is the introduction of sanctions for serious infringements of labour obligations, which have so far been prescribed by Article 59(2). Until now, it has been prescribed that serious infringements of the labour obligations and duties referred to in Article 1(1) - 11 must be subject to an end of the employment relationship, if damage has occurred to the public authority, if the injury has been committed by premeditated or out of consciousness, and if no extenuating circumstances have been identified for the employee, i.e. the person who has committed the injury. In other cases, fines may be imposed up to 15% of the monthly salary, ranging from one month to six months. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is predicted that for the infringements of Article 1, which I will talk about a little later, the disciplinary measure of fines can be expressed, at a height of between 20 and 35% of the salary paid for the month in which the decision was made, for a period of 3 to 6 months - and what is most important, and to which we constantly draw attention or the disciplinary measure of termination of employment. In order for the matter to be even more black (when it comes to such a disciplinary measure - the termination of a working relationship), Articles 11 and 12 deletes the possibility of a disciplinary procedure being conducted through a disciplinary commission; therefore, these members are given the opportunity to a public authority-led official to express the disciplinary rate of termination of the working relationship of the AAI in the amounts I have already read. Also, what is less important in this article, that is, in point 1. provides for the erasure of certain specific provisions that describe self-infringing work obligations. We don't think that eradicating it went forward in some sense of the legal provisions. On the contrary, we think that existing solutions are fairer, because they make more sure that the injuries themselves, the serious injuries of labour obligations, are more specific and we believe that this is one more appropriate way in terms of the clarity of the law itself. But what is most important, if such a member remains, unless our amendment is adopted, will remain an option for the citizens of Serbia, that your officials, therefore your bosses and bosses, have the right to give you a disciplinary measure of termination of employment unless you are their blind listeners, unless you are good. This DOS did not promise you in the election campaign, but now, after almost two years of government, DOS introduces this possibility through such a bill. I say this to make it clearer to all citizens, to all workers and how we want to prevent this kind of thing from happening; if you remember tomorrow, the day after that when you vote on a bill like this, think about it. As for time, our time is yet to come, ask about who won the re-elections in election 51,... (inaudible) Razana in Pirot, so you'll find out he won the SPS candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22640	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The proposer does not accept the amendments. Please, the word has been made by MP Toma Busetic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 15. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22641	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed to delete Article 15, and this is about the resignation of an employee; especially for us are rigid and unacceptable points 3, 4) and 6). In point 3 - an employee shall be fired if he refuses to work at the workplace he is referred to. That's what I was talking about earlier when I was talking about in principle. So get to work 200 - 300 km away, it's a de facto cancellation because it won't pay him to travel or live that far, and it will certainly apply. Point 4 - if he loses his calling, and the title will be very soon lost under this law. Or -- if there's a change in the organization. It's going to be a very easy job for a government official. Of course, these are now the achievements of the new authorities. In our day, that was different. The weight of injury to work duties and duties - is fired when? When damage has been done to the state authority, when this damage has been done by imagination or by conscious inadequacy. Yeah, and in case there's no extenuating circumstance, and in those conditions you get fired. Now, let the workers of the state authorities see what kind of authority we were, as far as we thought of them, and what this government is doing. Of course, I can agree with Minister Shabic, this is a problem, but it's not that big a problem at all. A much bigger problem is that Kostunica, Djindjic and unfortunately Pavkovic have made real state and general chaos in this affair.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22642	Mr. Bushettic, please return to the agenda. You are a representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 15. There's not a single sentence, you know how much it costs one minute on RTS?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22643	Or the problem is that the police minister says he knows who 50 mafia bosses are in Serbia, and nothing does to bring them to justice. That's the problem, big guy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22644	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The proposer does not accept the amendments. Can I get you a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Adam Urosevic, representative of the amendment applicants, to Article 15 of the Bill on Labour in State Authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22645	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and peoples, the Soviet Parliament group submitted an amendment to Article 15. Proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Relations Act in state bodies. In Article 15, i.e. the new Article 64a, point 1 of the word "written termination" is replaced by the words "written statements". In point 2, "work relationship cancels" is replaced by the words "work relationship ceases". The following point 3 is added: "In the event of termination of a working relationship within the meaning of Article 2(6) of this Article, the employee shall be provided with payment of the severance in accordance with the labour rules". Let me explain this proposal. The working relationship within the national authority shall be based on a solution to the admission into a working relationship brought by an official who manages the authorities, not by a working contract or by another act. Accordingly, the working relationship cannot cease to comply with an act of resignation, i.e. the decision taken by the official, which decides on the individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee. A working relationship may be terminated by the public authority on the basis of a written statement, in the event of the termination of a working relationship at the will of the employee, i.e. by the decision of the officials on the termination of the employment relationship - the termination of the employment relationship against the will of the employee. It's about this first part of the amendment. As regards the second part of the amendment relating to the severance, the Labour Act has established the obligation of the employer to pay at least at the level laid down in this law in the event of the termination of the labour contract due to the termination of the need for employment. For the sake of the uniform position of employees, it is necessary to establish the mandatory payment of the severance payment and, in the event of the termination of the employment relationship of the state authority which has acquired the status of unscheduled, as proposed by this amendment. On behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22646	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, I ask if the representative of the proposing Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, wants to give the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22647	I hope I won't be too long this time either; therefore, I thank all the participants in the debate, she ran through some during which we all assumed; but, with all the controversy, I must remind you, gentlemen, of the opening exhibition. In fact, by putting this law in close co-ordination with the Labour Act, I mentioned an undeniable fact: in this country, this nation has been in a ten-year period, which has coincided with the authority of a party, allowing itself to bring its social product down to a third and move from Europe to Africa. If it hadn't been for that, I'm sure even the solutions to the Labour Act would have been something different, maybe something softer, maybe not so restrictive; when I was talking about that law I didn't even praise him at all, it's a painful, difficult law, but it was a necessary step, in line with the people's "about the leper," you know that story, everyone stretches to their own leper. That's our problem. Therefore, gentlemen, I have no problem agreeing with your remarks that the law is restrictive, that disciplinary measures and disciplinary responsibilities are set in a different way, and that labour status and maintenance status are put into direct correlation with the results of the work. Of course, and how else should it be? I have to tell you, not that I don't understand you, but I'm convinced that a little person in society understands you when you say and when you're surprised - why would someone who doesn't come to work unjustly for two days get fired! For God's sake, why don't you get it? We're talking about people who are missing work for unwarranted reasons. I'm asking-- why don't you get fired? To be clear, that's where I'll end up, you're here, some of you, of course, not all of you, saying the words they can, and for no reason at all, to upset a large number of people in the state administration, who do their job like most other employees: rightly, responsibly, think about what they earn, how they earn, think about their families, and if they're good and responsible workers really have no reason to be afraid. The words that came from this pay phone, and they even mentioned some kind of torture, are really incomprehensible. I can understand that we're in a political fight and we're free to express ourselves, but talking about torture -- that's really funny. One of the MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia gave me good cream. He said, speaking of Article 17 and the famous lustration, that's what you tried to do with the university, so you gave up. Gentlemen, we haven't tried anything, and we haven't given up on anything. Then it was said that it was going to be a terrible hickey in which the government would sweep away anything that doesn't kiss her hands, doesn't crawl in front of her, doesn't fear. What happened? We gave up. No, we didn't give up, what happened was normal. So, in a process that will be open, and it won't happen to have the dimension you're talking about, a number of people have reason to count on some of the conventions provided for by the Labour Relations Act, but it's not about valuable, honest or professional people, but about people whose work results don't satisfy the position they're in. It is, ladies and gentlemen, everywhere in the world, so it is normal. That we're late to face that fact so much worse for us, but the sooner the better. I repeat, no one who professionally, responsibly and worthy of fulfilling their labour obligations has any reason to fear this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22648	I thank Mr. Minister and conclude the search of the bill in particular. (Zarko Obradovic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. You absolutely didn't mention it. We're not doing this. I didn't give you my word and you have no right to a replica. It's my discretionary right to decide if you have a right to replication. I'm telling you, there's no basis for replication and no right to replicate. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Ministries Act, you have received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2 July 2002, to which the Government informs that, according to Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdraws from the procedure a draft law amending the Law on Ministrys. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2002, 2003. And 2004. YOU have received a proposal for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments to the programme of measures that form an integral part of the proposal for a decision by the MPs: Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (whom the mandate of the MP has ceased) and Dusan Tubic. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate, is five hours and I ask the MP groups to hand me the list of registered speakers. I also remind you that according to this agenda point, and pursuant to Article 156, a single review of the motion for a decision is being opened. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Would Dr Dragan Veselinov, Minister of Agriculture, like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22649	Dear People's MPs, you have before you a proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2002, 2003 and 2004. This is one of the few programmes approved by the National Assembly, with all the dangers that exactly the programme that is of strategic importance is long awaited by the various political opportunities that can happen to the Assembly, which is with us and the case, so I want to make a request that you make a decision as soon as possible to approve the animal health care programme for these three years, because the budgets you have already approved for 2002 are waiting for this decision, so that the state's animal health programme depends only on your decision at the moment. This Decision lays down animal health measures to prevent the occurrence, detection, control and eradication of infectious animal diseases. This Decision lays down measures to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases which can be transferred from animals to humans and the way in which certain animal health measures are financed by means provided in the budget of the Republic are financed. Animal health measures are implemented under this programme, and these measures are therefore general preventive health measures. They refer to diagnostic studies, which are essential for the implementation of this programme, immunophilic and other animal health measures; prevention of the occurrence, detection, prevention and eradication of infectious diseases: classical swine fever (where we have had excellent results last year), nycasttle diseases of livestock, tuberculosis, brucellosis, enzootic leukosis of cattle, infectious urinary tract infection, bluetongue, leptospirosis, fish diseases, bee diseases, infectious anemia of horses, Kyu-Gross, salmonosis and typhoids, rabies, equinosis and trichinosis; preventive measures and diagnostic studies. The programme set deadlines for its implementation, providing funding for the 2002 bar in our budget, is set to monitor and implement the programme of animal health measures. This program was given to you essentially in three parts. In the first part, the measures of general preventive animal protection are specifically developed, and in that part the forms and the scope of these measures are defined. They refer to the ongoing monitoring of the status of livestock infections in the Republic through diagnostic and other studies. These measures apply to veterinary-sanitary inspection controls, such as: animal control and their products in the production and transport of; control of the harmless removal of animal carcasses, control of objects where the purchase and storage of the skin, wool, hair, bones; control of the health-restriction of livestock (which is of paramount importance to us); control of the health status of breeding traps and male breeding throats; control of incubatory cells and traps of breeding animals. This programme organises the implementation of effective environmental protection by providing veterinary-sanitary conditions on farms, slaughterhouses, dairys, freezers and all facilities where meat, milk, eggs, skin, hair and other raw materials and waste of animal origin are processed. What is particularly in this programme is that it is through it that we perfect informing citizens and animal holders about the need to take general and individual animal health measures. The second part of this programme provides for diagnostic testing, then immunophilic vaccination measures and other animal health measures. Diagnostic studies normally carry in this programme a lion's share of financial resources, because already in the program, in our financial programme that monitors this programme and where this programme, where hopefully, when you vote it, we'll start spending the funds. More than two-thirds of the projected funds are related to diagnostic studies, so that at any time they have a better picture of animal health. The implementation of this programme shall be carried out by scientific, or specialist veterinary institutes with a network of public veterinary services, as well as by authorised private veterinary services that form the basic lever through which this programme is implemented. I want to tell you that thanks to the implementation of, (already last year), the animal health care programme, we have significantly contained, if we haven't completely eradicated, the enzootic leukosis of cattle -- it's almost gone far below one percent. We're in that sense to keep us safe. What is a special newspaper (practically the only newspaper in this programme which is more or less routine) compared to the previous ones, is that the state has no reason to single out from its funding for vaccination against swine fever, since it is almost eradicated. If the state were to go through funding from the vaccination budget against swine fever, it would be information that we have in the country. It would thus prevent our export of fresh meat, primarily west to the European Union, or countries that respect the standards for exporting fresh meat. I would especially like to stress and simply inform you that we hope that the programme of animal health measures for 2002 and 2003 will be implemented in significant new circumstances, where the animal health situation in our country will be even better than it is today, because we should do so during this year (if not at the beginning of next year, if there is a certain stalemate, but it will be because of the steps of the European Union, not because of our own) to adopt a rule on the labelling of cattle and other animals; and to seduce the central register of the available animal fund of various composition. It should be very soon, at the end of this year, or next, to establish and national laboratories where improved ways will be able to determine the quality of livestock food. Also, under completely new circumstances, the programme should also be implemented for 2002, especially for 2003. This year, we will give you a law on the privatisation of the veterinary service in the Assembly for approval and consideration, or we will start to privatise the veterinary service, with the veterinary law, where we will start under new circumstances - to improve the animal health situation. The proposal for this decision has been in the Assembly since March of this year. We don't believe there's any serious reason, especially the political nature, that should retain its implementation. This is exactly the program where we don't see the reason that, whatever political beliefs we are, we don't find ourselves together. If we can't vote politically towards the same goal, for the same decisions, the care of animal health is to us all, I suppose, and to the heart, and to care for the health of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22650	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the words of the rapporteurs of the committees, the Committee on Agriculture - MP Zoran Micovic - want? No, I don't. ) Whether the President of the Legislative Committee wants the word, MP Bojan Pajtic. He doesn't want to. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22651	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I didn't think I was answering, however, about some of the problems that have arisen in the press, where there has been - whether the federal government has abolished the regulation on the protection against the disease of mad cows or not, just one note to Mr. Minister: please the Republic Ministry and the Government pay a little more attention and get involved as much as possible in such things as they are not in the authority of the Republic Government, and then they'll come around us. Otherwise, if the Democratic Party had accepted the idea of Serbia being independent, you would have done it without a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22652	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Zivanko Radovanchev, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, according to this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22653	I don't know who to thank for finally finding this point on the agenda. It seems to me that we overwrite it all the time, delay it, etc. We always have some bits and lots of issues. It's a good thing we don't have a number of points in the session, I'm afraid it wouldn't be different, because it's also in the context of today's session after three or four delays in the last place, so let's do it. Anyway, that's my comment and grade. I would like to begin at the beginning to continue in this tone of my opening presentation and express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we had not had time for this item of the agenda, which was suggested to be considered in the framework of the spring session or in the spring periods of congregation activities; for it we did not have time, even those points whose decisions would only apply for a period of time, a year or two. But for the programme of animal health measures for 2002, 2003 and 2004, which we were obliged to adopt by law by the end of 2001 and apply during 2002, there was no time and probably no understanding. As regards the programme of animal health measures, I do not think it is a bad intention, whether the Government or the President of the Assembly to misjudge the importance of certain issues in drawing up the agenda of previous meetings of the Assembly, but rather, it is only the lack of understanding and concern of the current authorities towards agriculture. I would support this claim with concrete remarks when it comes to this proposal. Article 7. The Animal Health Act has established the obligation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a programme for the next three years, which the assembly has not done by the end of October, in the last three years of the period covered by the programme of measures. Since this proposal for a programme of measures also states that animal testing and vaccination are carried out in the spring and autumn, and especially before the release of animals, you will agree with me, the measure is late for this spring that has already passed. As a result of this delay in one part, we may be aware of the risk of developing cattle disease with inconceivable economic consequences in this and next year. We often hear that there is a tendency for the Republic of Serbia to again become a significant exporter of live cattle, meat and meat processing. The precondition, in addition to other conditions in terms of standards, in the case of slaughterhouses, etc., for a country to run in general for the exporter of live cattle and meat, is that it has adopted a programme of animal health measures that is in line with European standards, and that the implementation of the adopted programme provides the means and that the measure programme is fully implemented. To recapitalise - the consequences of the late adoption of the programme of measures and delays in its implementation can be considered to be difficult, from the point of view of this criterion relating to the adoption of the animal health care programme. The animal health care programme does not state that animal labelling is mandatory in the case of diagnostic testing or preventive measures, although such obligation exists in the Animal Health Protection Act and on which this proposal is based. On page 12, paragraph 1 there are two misunderstandings. In the fourth order, other operational veterinary services are mentioned, a concept which the Animal Health Act does not know, but is mentioned in the law in the terms of the veterinary station, institutes, colleges. In the sixth row of the same position, the deadlines of the measure must be set by the end of January for the current year, which you will agree, for this year, the missed possibility and the programme of the measure cannot be realised for this year. So we're adopting something that we're certain at the time of adoption that it won't be fully possible in this year, with all the possible consequences and risks of being delayed by these measures. Article 12(2) states that the vaccination against rabies and equinocosis is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't know if that information is accurate, because the owners, animal holders, pay out of their pockets the rabies vaccination. Speaking of paying for the vaccine, the newspaper is that the owners of pigs in 2002, 2003 and 2004 will pay vaccination against classical swine fever, and to remind you that during the previous period this animal health care measure for owners was free of charge. Although this programme of measures has not yet been adopted, neither has the government order of the Republic of Serbia, a particular veterinary station, despite the fact that vaccination of pigs against classical plague has been free so far, illegally and illegally charging for vaccination, probably on the basis of a proposal of these measures or a recommendation from someone who does not have the authority to do so. The fifth point of view of page 12 states that the implementation of the programme is responsible for animal owners, the Ministry of Agriculture, the competent state authorities, judicial authorities, public and other veterinary services, and I have not read anywhere that, among other things, the Ministry of Agriculture, with all these other institutions, should bear one part of the responsibility for implementing these measures. In addition to possible problems in livestock, related to animal health, which is a constant threat, livestock farming, and total agriculture are also at risk by measures of the country's economic policy in the area of foreign trade policy, import liberalisation policy, insufficient protection of domestic production, on the one hand, and the absence of incentives and incentives for exports, on the other. I must admit that I am impatient that a single policy in the agrarian Republic of Serbia is finally starting to lead from one place. Because today is not the case, we have constant conflicts between the Republic and the Federal Government, or the Ministry of the Republic and federal jurisdiction. We have the Republic Government, or the Ministry of Agriculture, which I consider to be the first operative and manager to run a policy that is responsible for balances, greater and cheaper production, on the one hand, and the Federal Government to impose itself as a supervisor of the Republic Government, which is responsible for opening our country in economic terms towards the world, by liberalising the import regime, seems to me without any more serious analysis of the impact of such an opening on destruction, not to mention the collapse or destruction of domestic production. I am not and cannot advocate the closure of the market, but rather I urge the Federal Government to respect the Government's proposals to a greater extent, while this relationship is still in place, i.e. more respecting the proposals made by the Republic Ministry of Agriculture in order to achieve the level of production in livestock. Otherwise, uncontrollable imports, without or with insufficient protection of domestic production, may result in a decrease in production in this year, i.e. finally, in order to undo the effects of the investment of the Republic government, i.e. investment from the budget through stimulating and stimulating measures, especially in this part of livestock. I thank you for having suffered this, in one part, trip that is beyond this topic, but I think it is significant and that it can be equally devastating in a part that can reduce livestock production, retail and because of the influence of some of these diseases for which we prescribe appropriate measures. The SPS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this proposal for animal health measures for the following principled reasons: we will not support any proposal that continues to worsen the material situation of the already poored farmers, even in the part in which it is a new imposition. And we will not support any, nor will this proposal, where we recognize the role of MPs as voters of kilograms of bodies that need to be adopted by the subsequent adoption of this programme of health care measures to cover and verify the failures or governments, (but it seems to me that quite early through the assembly procedure this proposal has taken place), or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let the way and time when we adopt a very important programme of measures be a reminder to the Government of the Republic of Serbia because of a 9-month delay in adopting these measures, and farmers have a kind of message that this government still does not have much understanding for their problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22654	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The word has been given by MP Petar Petrovic, and this is the only registered MP per item of the agenda. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has also been reported, but he is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22655	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SSJ has a procedural remark on why this decision on animal protection measures in 2002, 2003 and 2004, is being taken today, that is, on the day we wear nice suits, etc.; when a voting day is set, and when, after the publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", eight days pass and enters into force, it means that more than half a year will pass, and we are just making a decision on the protection measures for 2002. This is just another proof that this government and this Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, headed by the relevant minister, Mr. Veselinov, are concerned, among other things, about livestock. The SS believes that future measures should be adopted as the Animal Protection Act foresees; but since this government will certainly not be in these positions where it is now, and the gentleman who is now the Minister of Agriculture will certainly not be in that place then, surely the measures will be taken in time and the way the Law provides. In addition to these measures, according to the Soviet Union, other measures and programmes for the development of livestock farming in the Republic of Serbia were to be adopted. In fact, livestock farming in the Republic of Serbia is in crisis and it is well known to all of us. The number of animals of all species in individual land and social holdings is in decline, and the question is what will be protected within a year, if such a trend continues and if such a policy is in the future, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resord Ministry will be implemented towards agriculture and livestock production as part of agriculture. The question of the measure is also raised to protect the price of the service. Namely, I spoke before coming to this congregation with resolute people and very responsible people in Jagodina Municipality. For your information, Mr. Minister knows that there is an institute in Jagodina that is highly respected and recognized in Serbia and outside Serbia. Mr. Minister knows that for some other reasons, because during the celebration of the ministry he received one gift for which vaccines can surely be bought to protect one part of the animals in the Jagodina Municipality, but on that path, it is not a topic. So, the Institute and the Jagodina veterinary station say they do not have enough financial resources to implement protection measures under this programme. It happens often that they finance animal protection in the Municipality of Jagodin and beyond in the Pomorava County, while the Ministry of the Interior refunds the costs after several months, or pays the services performed, and the question is how animal protection services will be performed if the Ministry does not provide the funds. In its programme, among other things, the ministry in question wrote: "For the implementation of this programme, funds will be used for animal health assurances, veterinary and sanitary checks, dog registration and fines, similar dynamics of the inflow of funds, and based on plans, programmes and lists of priorities established by the Ministry of Veterinary Affairs." So if there are not enough registered dogs in the Republic of Serbia and there are not enough fines imposed in the Republic of Serbia, there will probably not be money to implement the measures that we, or you, or, because the Serbian Unity Party cannot support such a programme, will adopt. In the end, in the name of Sranka of Serbian Unity, she asks the question of the Minister - what would have happened, and it is good that God did not, in the future, not happen, that there was an epidemic in this period and that we did not have a programme of measures, as an epidemic of triquinosis occurred a few months ago, where several people died in Serbia; we do not know that anyone was called to account or that someone was replaced, and that someone in the ministry was replaced - there is nothing of this job. I am obliged to ask the minister another question - whether, in the application of this programme, the protection measures in this and the following years, the same treatment will have private veterinary cells and social or state veterinary stations; in particular, in the Pomorava County, they do not have the same treatment, although some private veterinary cells in Jagodina, as with Bata, have an extremely schooled staff, but cannot get a job from the Ministry because they get it from others. For these reasons, the Serbian Unity Party cannot support such a proposal for an animal protection measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22656	Next reported is MP Vojislav Seselj. He's not there. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a Minister of Agriculture Mr. Dragan Veselinov, that is the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22657	Respecting your time, as we approach the end of this session, I'm going to say a few sentences on certain matters. And today we're sure of it -- if it was going back to the way it was, it'd be even worse, it'd be even more difficult for us to inherit it, and it would certainly be when -- then there has to be a twist. Just when I listen to some people talk, then I really see how much it takes to insist on the animal health care programme as soon as possible. First, this programme is brought relatively late, but due to political obstruction, and it is a pity that the programme of animal health measures is subject to the political interests of individual groups. There are no essential remarks on the program here. I will no longer call you from the opposition benches because you are not a political goal, but I want to point out that it is a real shame and that you are precisely showing why the partial situation in our livestock industry is bad, when you are able for political reasons to compromise the animal health care programme. Someone's worried that exports are supposed to be gone this year. You know, at least some who are following this situation, that eight of our slaughterhouses, we hope there will be another number added, determined by the European Union to obtain a certificate to be exported and we expect these days that at least one of them will get it, and hopefully everyone mentioned in the European Union will also receive export certificates. Is there any fear of imports? At this point, we are one of the best protected countries from unfair competition from abroad, as we have seduced relatively high customs duties on all primary agricultural products and levies on many processing products. We have just 48 hours ago seduced new levies that will further protect against unfair foreign competition from our processing industry, which is in a very difficult state, precisely by those who want to challenge the importance of this programme today, not wanting to vote for it. Don't be afraid for the internal situation in our country. We have at least two and a half years, so we have time to try to restructure, and we will certainly do that, protected by relatively high customs and levies, while enjoying a great understanding first of all from the European Union. So we can export our products to the market under preferential conditions. I am sorry that some people feel that it is not necessary to vote because the farmer will continue to pay the price of the vaccine in the future, but we have stressed that if we were to go to a state programme to finance vaccination against swine fever, we would dispute our ability to export fresh pork. Therefore, do not worry about the peasant in such a way that he cannot invest in production, that he cannot go into export. It's just the other way around. Let's give him a chance, let's encourage him to grow cattle and then with the money he has, he'll be able to finance the price of the vaccine per piece. It is not a particularly high price and we will have even greater access to the Western European market. This program isn't funded by punishment. Penalties are an integral part, unfortunately, of our lives, but penalties are paid only by those who do not comply with the program and do not comply with the laws. Those who respect them and respect the program will not pay any punishment. None of the penalties are particularly sustained, nor is our Republic veterinary inspection, which is practically at regional level. At the environmental level, only one part of the payment of penalties is maintained from those who do not comply with the law or the health care programme. And in what state our Republic veterinary inspection is, I don't have to say much, since we inherited the situation. She is extremely famous and thank God that whoever caused this situation is no longer in power, because tomorrow the veterinary inspection will be even better, respected, and will be incomparably more effective. I call upon you to unite when the voting session arrives and allow this program to begin its implementation tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-03-0.u22658	I thank Mr. Secretary. I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2002, 2003 and 2004. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby order Thursday, July 4th, for voting day at 11.00 p.m. Have a nice day and I'll see you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 143 MPs attend the session. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Momir Radoic, Milorad Jakšić, Išpanovic Istvan, Ratimir Svirčević, Juhas Atila and Dragan Kosanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. Since the National Assembly completed the debate on all agenda points of the Fourth Extraordinary Session in 2002, we are moving to a decision-making session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for the appointment of the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. I am putting the motion to appoint Angelka Dimitrijevic as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 125, no one, abstentioned 26, voted 13, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Mrs. Angelka Dimitrijevic as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Mrs. Angelko Dimitrijevic on her appointment as Secretary of the National Assembly and ask her to assume her duty. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on public procurement to the vote, in principle. For 123, against 35, the abstentioned were not voted by five, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on public procurement, in principle. I remind you that during the search of the Law proposal in particular amendments to Article 3, MP Nebojsa Jovic, as an authorised representative of the amendment's applicants, who submitted together with MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrić, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomiro Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. I would also remind you that an integral part of the proposal has become: amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 13, 19, 33, 55, 69, subtitle above Articles 73 and 73, subtitle above Articles 74 and 74, subtitle above Articles 102 and 102 of the amendment proposed to add three new members of 102a, 102b and 102v and amendments to Articles 105 and 148. Bill Proposal; Amendment to Article 7 submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoičić, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic; Amendment to Article 53, submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj; Amendment to Article 88, submitted by MP Radojko Petric and amendment to article 96, which was submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinović (with whom the mandate of the MP passed, so the amendment belongs to the assembly DOS - Democratic Party of Serbia). We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. . For 38, against 123, there are no abstentions, three, a total of 164 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I put this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 122 abstentions, five, a total of 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I put this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 123, there are no abstentions, no 30 votes, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Ratko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 125, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 109 abstention one, was not voted 37, out of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoičić, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic; as well as Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Šabić and Branko Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodobulj Sabic and Branko Pavlovic submitted a joint amendment with an amendment, which they proposed to add a new title and a new member of 5a after Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 109 abstentions, one did not vote 40 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 120, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (to whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački submitted a joint amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of the 8a be added after article 8. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 125, the abstentions did not vote 8 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 126, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 121 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to section II and section 18 to be voted by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 32, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 118, the abstentions did not vote 20, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 123 abstentions, 6 out of 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adm Urosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 35, against 120, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic for 14, against 109, abstentioned two, did not vote 42, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 39, against 122 abstentions, there were no five votes, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj as member of the 23rd. For 34, against 114 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj on 25th. For 36, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (who have ceased the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. For 36, against 119 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 27 by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 35, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the amendments submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic, who were proposed to add a new member of 38a For 37, against 117 abstentions, did not vote 12, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to the 40th. For 33, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 12, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 44. For 37, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 45. For 30, against 115, there are no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to article 45. For 38, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 45, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. For 45, against 103, two abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 46th joint vote by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 26, against 129 abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote to add a new member of 46a after article 46a, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. For 13, two abstentions against 111, 38 of the 164 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 52, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic For 15, against 108, with abstentions, did not vote 40, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 55th vote, which were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. For 36, against 121 abstentions, six of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 56th vote, which were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (who ceased the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. For two, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 44, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 57th vote, submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 31, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote 16 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 62rd vote, which were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 34, against 122 abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 64 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 34, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 67 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 30, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 71, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 36, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 75, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 29, against 117 abstentions, four did not vote 16 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 77th vote together by MPs Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. For 35, against 119 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 78 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 29, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 83, which was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 36, against 120, there are no abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote to add a new article 85a after article 85a, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. For 20, against 105, with five abstentions, 35 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 88 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 22, against 119, two abstentions, he did not vote 21, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 88, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 33, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 89 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 34, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 91, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 36, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 93 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 32, against 118, there are no abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 96 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 29, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 12, of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic together submitted an amendment to amend the title of subtitle 3 after article 97. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the article 99, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic (with correction). For 46, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote seven out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 101 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 33, against 119, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 111 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 29, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 112 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 30, against 122 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 113, which were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 35, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 119 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 32, against 119 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 120 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 32, against 121, a abstentioned one, had not voted 11 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 121, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 32, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to Article 122, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. For 31, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 122, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 35, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote seven out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need a break? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] (Lowers from the O.R.: No. ) I am putting on the vote of amendments tabled together by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. For 11, against 123, two abstentions, not 27, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 125. For 33, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic, on Article 128. There are no abstentions for 34, against 120, nine, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments tabled together by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (who ceased the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 134 by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 26, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Milan Stankovic on Article 134. For 33, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic, on article 145. For 30, against 118, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 34, against 116 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (who ceased the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. For one, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 39, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public procurement in general. For 125, against 35, the abstentions were not voted by two, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on public procurement in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on working relations in the state orgnances Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act in the state bodies, in principle. For 125, against 34, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 36, against 119 abstentions, seven of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. For 35, against 120, the abstentions, were not voted by eight, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 30, against 112, the abstentions, did not vote 21, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote to add a new Article 3a, with a correction, submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. For 33, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 35, against 122 abstentions, five, a total of 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 35, against 120, with no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 36, against 117 abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 10th joint vote by the MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 34, against 119 abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. For 30, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. For 35, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law in the state bodies as a whole. For 122, against 35, the abstentions were not voted by four, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law in state bodies. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2002, 2003. And 2004. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search into the proposal for a decision, we move on to a decision on amendments. On chapter I point 6), the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (to whom the mandate of the MP ceased) and Dusan Tubic. The government has not, and the Committee on Agriculture has adopted the amendment, while the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There were no, against 107, abstentions 7, no 44 votes, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (who ceased the mandate of the MP) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I put this amendment to the vote. For there was, against 117, a abstentioned one, not a vote of 41, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (who ceased the mandate of the MP) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There were no, against 120, abstentions, no 39 votes, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Chapter II of Section (a) of point 9), the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (to whom the mandate of the MP ceased) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There were no, against 118, abstentions, no 42 votes, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (who was suspended from the mandate of the MP) and Dusan Tubic submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title and title to section II (a) after point 9). The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It was not against 117 abstentions, it did not vote 42, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section II, point 1) of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (to whom the mandate of the MP ceased) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For there were no, against 122 abstentions, 37 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (who ceased the mandate of the MP) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was no vote against the 119 abstentions, no vote of 40, of a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački, Zoran M. Nikolic (to whom the mandate of the MP ceased) and Dusan Tubic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 122, a abstentioned one, voted 36, out of a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Having concluded our decision on the amendments, I would like to put the proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2002, 2003 and 2004 as a whole. For 122, against 28, the abstentions did not vote 10, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2002, 2003 and 2004. Having considered all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. [[Applause]] One brief announcement: the board meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 9th, at 11.00 p.m., in the second floor hall. The assembly's probably on Tuesday, you'll get a call.
